K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited isnt covering the full costs of his medical 
treatments in 2016.
background
In December 2015, Mr R arranged to take out private medical insurance with AXA. This was 
arranged over the phone by a broker. The cover was set to start on 15 January 2016.  During  
the set-up call, Mr R said he needed  an operation in the coming weeks and he was told this 
wouldnt be covered  by the policy.  When Mr R took out the policy  he selected moratorium  
underwriting  meaning he was accepting that he wouldnt be covered for any pre-existing 
medical conditions  for two years. And that these conditions would only become covered  after 
this two-year period if no treatment was received  for them during this moratorium period.
On 18 January 2016, Mr R went into hospital to have the pre-arranged surgery. This was to 
close an ileostomy that resulted from a pre-inception  procedure in October  2015. Mr R 
therefore didnt  claim for this surgery. However, on 26 January 2016, he was admitted to 
hospital again as an emergency;  and on 27 January 2016 he called AXA to make  a claim on 
his policy. He was in hospital  until 8 February 2016.
AXA agreed to cover Mr R for this emergency admission when he initially  called. So later, 
when it had further information about the surgery on 18 January, it still agreed  to honour this 
claim even  though it did consider that, strictly  speaking, there was no cover for it  as it 
thought this admission  was a result of complications  following the pre-arranged surgery.
On 15 February 2016, Mr R contacted his surgeon  (S) as he was experiencing severe  
abdominal pain and vomiting. Shortly after this he was admitted to hospital again. The 
hospital called AXA on 16 February  2016  to authorise cover  for this admission. The medical 
report for this admission states  that S was concerned hed developed  an adhesive  small  
bowel obstruction,  so advised him to attend the hospital. Following tests, scans and 
emergency surgery, it was determined that this was the case. It was noted that the ileostomy  
closure was intact  but adjacent to this, the distal small bowel was adherent and this was the 
site of the obstruction. The notes suggest  that the pressure this obstruction caused also led 
to a bowel  perforation.
Throughout February, AXA was in contact  with the hospital to discuss  Mr Rs condition and 
the likely  cause of this admission. AXA initially agreed to cover  Mr R until 29 February 2016, 
but said it would need further reports if it were to consider  covering  him beyond this date. 
Following a phone call with S on 15 March 2016, AXA determined that this admission was a 
result of complications from previous surgery. So it said cover wasnt  available due to the 
moratorium clause. AXA agreed to cover Mr R for a further two weeks   until 29 March  but 
said that he would need to be moved  to an NHS bed from this date. However,  Mr R 
remained in the same private bed until 27 April 2016.
In November 2016, Mr R was admitted to hospital for reconstructive  surgery.  The surgery he 
had during his admission  from mid-February until April 2016 had resulted in his having short  
bowel syndrome and a loop jejunostomy. The purpose of the November admission was to 
restore his bowel so he could maintain his own nutrition.
Mr Rs representatives contacted AXA to confirm whether  this surgery  would be covered, but 
it said it wouldnt. AXA said that this surgery was a result  of the mid-February  admission, 
which it ultimately considered a result of previous surgery. So it said no cover was provided.
Ref: DRN1601219Mr R first complained to AXA in February 2016.  Since November 2016, he has had 
representatives dealing  with the complaint on his behalf. He complained that his care from 
15 February to 27 April 2016 should be paid in full, as well as the further  admission from 
November to December  2016. He said invoices  were  still outstanding from the agreed  time 
period.
AXA partially upheld  his complaint. It maintained that his mid-February admission  wasnt 
covered at all, so said it wasnt willing  to cover past 29 March 2016, as it had set out on 
15 March 2016.  As a result of this, it also said it wasnt willing to cover  the November 2016 
admission. But it apologised that invoices  it had agreed on a goodwill basis were still 
outstanding and said these were now being  processed. It offered Mr R £300 to apologise for 
this error.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2018. In summary, I concluded 
that, as neither party disputed that Mr R signed-up for the policy on a moratorium  basis,  the 
key issue I needed  to decide  was whether  or not Mr Rs admission in mid-February  2016  
was the result of an existing condition. If it was, then AXA was contractually entitled to 
decline indemnity  for this admission and any other claims that were  linked to or resulted from 
it.
Mr Rs policy  defines medical condition as any disease, illness  or injury,  including 
psychiatric illness. The word injury is not defined in the policy,  so on that basis  it takes its 
ordinary, everyday meaning. In my judgment, being injured commonly  meant being harmed, 
damaged or impaired  in some way.
The parties representatives both put forward cases as to what  they respectively believe the 
cause of Mr Rs small  bowel  obstruction  was. AXA initially set out that it was the result of 
previous surgery. It later specified that the obstruction was a result of complications from the 
ileostomy reversal (the January 2016 surgery). And S  on behalf of Mr R  has said it 
wasnt related to the reversal but instead was an acute and unanticipated emergency event.
The first record Id been provided  with of Mr R having abdominal surgery  was from 
November 2014,  where he had a number of procedures carried  out. He underwent further  
abdominal surgery  two weeks after this. He underwent another  surgical procedure on his 
abdomen in October 2015. The notes from this procedure detailed  that he had extensive 
adhesions on his small bowel, which were cleared in part during  the surgery.  Mr R had 
further abdominal  surgery  in January  2016   the notes  from this surgery describe  it as a very 
difficult surgery. And in February 2016 he had emergency abdominal  surgery  and the 
operative notes from this procedure made multiple  references to adhesions. The medical 
report written  up by the surgeon  stated: The distal small  bowel was adherent  in the right 
iliac fossa  and this was the site of obstruction.
AXA initially  declined Mr Rs claim as it considered the emergency surgery was a result  of 
previous surgeries. The medical  evidence  I had detailed that throughout Mr Rs medical 
history he had suffered  from adhesions  in his bowel.  And in February 2015 he needed 
emergency surgery for a bowel obstruction, which the operative notes state occurred where  
his bowel was adhered.  I considered that the adhesions Mr R had in his bowel met the 
definition of a pre-existing medical condition under the policy  as the adhesions injured his 
bowel and hed suffered  from them  before he bought the cover. And so I concluded that AXA 
was entitled to decline the claim, as Mr R had opted for cover  on a moratorium basis.
Ref: DRN1601219After a report was produced for AXA, it revised  its reason for the declinature  and specified 
that the January 2016 surgery  was the cause of the mid-February 2016 surgery.  I didnt think 
the report AXA provided or Ss comments meant I could safely reach that conclusion.  But 
I did consider that there was enough evidence in Mr Rs medical  history  as a whole for AXA 
to decline the claim.
I took into account that Ss letter didnt reference Mr Rs previous medical history when 
saying the bowel obstruction was unanticipated. But I considered this was discussed in a 
telephone call between  S and AXA in March 2016.  The relevant part of the call was as 
follows (my emphasis):
AXA: Hes had a bowel thats adhered, thats likely  to be from previous 
surgery so we...
Surgeon: Yeah I dont think,  I dont think theres any doubt  about that Louise, 
I wouldnt contest that obviously.
Mr Rs representatives said this was a leading question and asked me to disregard this 
evidence. I didnt agree. In my judgment, the AXA representative stated what she believed 
was a fact and S interrupted to agree with her. I considered that if what  shed said was 
incorrect, S wouldve  probably interrupted and corrected her, not concurred  that there was 
no doubt about it. So I considered this telephone call supported  AXAs reasoning for 
declining the claim on the basis that it was the result of previous  surgery.
Based on the medical evidence Id been provided  with, I concluded  that the adhesions in 
Mr Rs bowel were most likely the result of previous surgery. And as I considered they fell 
within the definition  of pre-existing condition, this meant any treatment as a result of these 
wasnt covered. So it followed that his emergency  admission in February 2016 was excluded  
by the moratorium  clause, as was any further  surgery or treatment that resulted from this 
admission. I said AXAs  liability  was capped at the amounts itd already volunteered to pay. 
And I didnt  consider Mr R was due any additional compensation.
AXA didnt provide any further comments in relation  to the provisional decision. Mr R 
responded, saying  he disagreed. Following the provisional decision, I provided Mr R with the 
full call recording between S and AXA plus the expert medical  report  AXA provided  us. Ive 
read and considered all the comments Mr R has made since then, both in response to the 
evidence I sent him and in his subsequent emails. In summary, Mr R disagrees with my 
provisional conclusions  because he alleges that:
1.I have defined injury  incorrectly  and he didnt have a bowel injury
2.Ive based  my conclusions on a single sentence  in one call, ignoring other evidence
3.I havent addressed  key issues, namely:
AXA mistakenly believed he was discharged and then readmitted after his 
surgery in February  2016
AXA accepted  the claim was valid but then wouldnt  cover  the last four weeks  of 
the same  admission
AXA refused to cover the surgery from November 2016
4.Ive relied on the evidence  I sent him even though hes got a number of concerns 
with the medical  report and thinks  the telephone call shouldnt form part of the 
evidence in this case.
Ref: DRN1601219my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in light of Mr Rs further 
submissions in order to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. My role is to look at what was agreed  between Mr R and AXA when he entered 
into this contract for private medical insurance.  And to weigh-up  the available  medical 
evidence to determine, on the balance  of probabilities, whether AXA has fairly applied these 
contract terms and conditions to Mr Rs claim.
1.does Mr R have a pre-existing medical  problem?
As a reminder for all parties,  as Mr R selected  moratorium underwriting,  the terms of his 
policy state he wont be covered for:
treatment of medical problems you had in the five years before you joined  us
The policy then goes  on to discuss medical conditions, a term which  is defined. From 
reading the policy booklet, I think  the terms make it clear what  Mr R will and wont  be 
covered for if he selects moratorium underwriting,  rather than the other available  options.  For 
example, he couldve  selected full medical underwriting, where AXA wouldve reviewed his 
full medical history and worked out his cover (and premium) based  on this. Instead,  he opted 
for the less expensive  level of cover where  claims arising from his previous medical 
problems were simply excluded for an agreed  period.
Ive considered all the information Mr R has provided, including the definitions and academic 
papers. But these dont change my findings. Simply put, Mr R had a medical  problem in 
February 2016, so he went  into hospital as an emergency. His policy excludes medical 
problems and conditions  hed been  treated for in the five years before he took out the cover. 
Mr Rs medical  history  clearly shows he previously had adhesions and was warned that he 
could suffer bowel  obstructions. I think the policy is drafted in such a way that Mr R ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware that any recurring medical problems,  such  as adhesions, 
wouldnt be covered.  And I dont  consider  it would  be fair for AXA to have to pay for surgery  
which resulted from these. Ultimately, he knew about them and didnt  opt to have  his 
previous medical  problems individually underwritten. My conclusion  is reinforced by the 
terms on page 26 of Mr Rs policy booklet. Section 4.5 states:
4.5 > Consequences of previous treatment
If you had treatment previously that would not be covered by your membership, we 
do not cover  further  treatment or increased  treatment costs  that are:
 a result of the treatment you had previously, or
 connected  with the treatment you had previously.
And treatment is defined in the policy as surgical or medical  services  (including diagnostic 
tests) that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
I appreciate Mr Rs view that adhesions are a result of an injury, rather  than being an injury  
themselves. But even if I were to take his view,  then I would  still consider  the surgery 
following his adhesive bowel  would  be excluded, as the adhesions  which caused the 
obstruction are most likely  to be connected to previous treatment he received  and 
therefore arent covered.
It seems  to me that the treatment being  claimed for is as a result of and/or connected with 
the bowel  treatment which Mr R underwent  in the five years before the start of cover. So it 
would be considered further treatment under section 4.5 above, meaning  there  is no cover.
Ref: DRN1601219Mr R has reiterated that there was no link between the mid-February surgery and the 
January surgery he had  so this surgery should be covered.  But AXAs original  findings  on 
this case were that the adhesions  would  relate  to surgery that took place prior to Mr Rs 
enrolment on the policy. So AXA did not initially  specify that it was the January surgery  that 
caused the adhesions which were  present where  Mr Rs bowel was obstructed.
Mr R has repeatedly quoted the final sentence  of Ss November 2016 letter to support his 
case  where S states that the obstruction was an acute and completely unanticipated 
emergency event.  Ive already set out that the focus of this letter  seems  to be the link 
between the two 2016 surgeries, not Mr Rs medical history as a whole (which, significantly, 
the letter omits). Hes argued  that S wouldve taken his history into account when the letter  
was written, as it was well known  to S. But I havent seen anything from S to confirm thats 
the case. And we also havent  been  provided with what  it was that S wrote this letter  in 
response to. So Im not persuaded  it supports Mr Rs case  that this wasnt a pre-existing 
cause of claim.
This is also because Mr Rs history is clearly referred to in Ss phone call with AXA in March 
2016. Mr Rs opinion  is that the November  2016 letter concludes  the obstruction  was acute 
and unanticipated  in its entirety,  fully considering his full medical history. If I were  to accept 
this view, then that means S has, in that letter, completely contradicted  the conversation with 
AXA in March 2016. It seems highly unlikely  that S would completely  change his view 
without any new medical evidence. And I havent seen anything to show further information 
later came to light. S also provided his consent for Mr R to receive a copy  of the call 
following my provisional decision.  So I still consider the call persuasive evidence  that the 
obstruction was the result  of previous  surgery. I appreciate  Mr Rs opinion of this call and my 
reliance on it, but I will address this point  in more detail later.
The above  telephone conversation came about following a letter  S wrote  on 1 March 2016. 
This letter states S requested  Mr Rs admission  as they suspected  Mr R had developed 
adhesive small bowel  obstruction and that the findings of the surgery  showed the distal 
small bowel was adherent  in the right iliac fossa and this was the site of obstruction.  
Considering this, I think AXA was reasonable to conclude that the emergency surgery  in 
February was a result of adhesions in Mr Rs bowel. And we know that he previously 
suffered from adhesions and had treatment for these  in October 2015, so any further  
treatment needed  for, resulting from or connected to them is not covered  as per 
section 4.5 above.
In my provisional decision,  I stated that the October  2015 surgery  cleared  some adhesions, 
so suggested  some were  still present. Mr R has disagreed and said that all the adhesions  he 
had were effectively treated by the October surgery and that there is no evidence  that any 
condition was ongoing from this point. But as Ive said,  his medical notes confirm he suffered  
an adhesive bowel obstruction  in February  2016.  So it seems there were  adhesions  on his 
bowel at this time.  It may be that these were new adhesions that had formed, or they may 
have been existing ones from previous surgery. This isnt clear from the medical evidence 
we have. But either way, he was again suffering from adhesions in his bowel  a medical 
problem that now needed treatment which hed experienced and had treated in the five 
years before taking  out cover. So this point also hasnt changed my conclusions.
Ref: DRN16012192.conclusions based only on the call
As Ive set out above, I have considered all the evidence available  to me, including  Mr Rs 
extensive submissions  in response  to my provisional decision. However, its my role to 
consider what weight to apply  to the evidence and what  issues are key to resolve in order 
reach my decision. It would be unreasonable to ignore the phone call, as that is effectively 
contemporaneous documentary evidence, i.e. the sort of evidence  widely  regarded  as 
amongst the most persuasive. I explained in the provisional decision why it wasnt  a leading 
question  and have received nothing material to rebut those findings. But in any event, S 
was not a professional advocate in court bound by strict rules  of evidence; he was simply a 
surgeon having a conversation with an insurer about a mutual  client. So this relevant 
evidence isnt inadmissible on the basis of being  an unfair leading question.
I would like to reassure  Mr R that I have considered all the facts and evidence  in the case, 
but they dont  persuade me that it can reasonably be upheld.
3.key issues: error  in AXA letter; cover ending prior to discharge; November 2016 surgery
In December 2016, Mr Rs representatives asked for an explanation as to why AXA wouldnt 
cover his February 2016 admission after 29 March 2016. AXA responded to this on 
22 December 2016. This letter was factually  incorrect in a number of places. But Mr R is 
unhappy that it stated he had been discharged on 15 February  2016  and then re-admitted 
on 26 February 2016, rather than remaining in hospital continuously from 15 February 2016.
I appreciate it was frustrating for the letter  to contain errors and this shouldnt  have 
happened. And I acknowledge that, as a result of this letter,  Mr R had to seek further  
clarification for why the claim was declined. So Ive considered  whether  he should receive 
any compensation for the error. But as Ive concluded that AXA has already  covered 
thousands of pounds worth of ineligible treatment as a goodwill gesture, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to ask it to pay him anything  further for this error  (which caused no material 
financial loss, just distress or inconvenience).
Mr R considers that as AXA agreed  to pay for the February 2016 admission initially,  it should 
cover the full time he needed treatment for this admission.  However, I dont agree. AXA isnt 
required to pay for treatment that is excluded by the policy terms. And so when AXA 
determined that Mr Rs admission was excluded, it was entitled to withdraw cover. This is the 
case even if it has agreed to cover an admission  initially. It would be unfair on an insurer  to 
expect it to continue  covering  excluded care just because it has paid sums on an ex gratia or 
interim basis.  AXA treated  Mr R fairly by covering him when it thought  his admission  might  
be eligible. But it was entitled to stop cover  once it became clear this admission was in fact 
caught by the moratorium  clause.
I appreciate AXA did previously cover Mr R for his January admission after it had evidence  
to suggest this was also not covered. But AXA wasnt required to do this; and Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence  that it knowingly and irrevocably waived its strict legal rights or that 
Mr R relied on such  a waiver to his detriment.  Accordingly, it was not estopped in law or 
equity from later asserting  its strict  rights to decline indemnity. In short, just because  it 
carried out a goodwill  gesture before doesnt mean  Mr R can insist that it does this again.
I am satisfied that AXA withdrew cover and reasserted its legal  rights  in a fair way. It 
discussed withdrawing cover with S, who said he understood the reasoning  and would 
explain this to Mr R. And then it continued to pay out for two further weeks after it was clear 
Mr R wasnt covered, so he had time to move into NHS care.  Considering this, I think AXA 
treated him appropriately and withdrew  cover fairly.
Ref: DRN1601219Mr R has said my provisional  decision  didnt  address why the November 2016 surgery  isnt 
covered. But it isnt in dispute that this surgery was needed due to the procedure  he had in 
February 2016. So as Im satisfied the February 2016 surgery isnt covered, it follows that 
this surgery wasnt either,  as it was further  treatment which stemmed from the initial medical  
problem.
4.AXAs medical report and the telephone call
I provided Mr R with both the medical  report AXA supplied to us and a recording of the call 
between S and AXA in March  following which the cover for this claim ended. Mr R has 
provided his comments  on this evidence.
He has raised a number  of concerns  with the medical report, in particular the comments  in 
relation to HIV and AIDS.
AXA initially  declined Mr Rs claim as hed previously suffered adhesions and this admission 
was the result of an obstruction from an adhesive  bowel.  But then following a letter from S, it 
contacted its medical expert to put together a report.  On receipt of this report, AXA 
considered the claim could be linked to adhesions specifically from the January  surgery. 
Mr R strongly  disputes both these findings.
In reading the report and what Mr Rs doctors  have said, Im not persuaded  to favour the 
conclusions of AXAs report over Mr Rs surgeons. It seems  the doctor has answered all the 
questions to the best of his ability  based on the evidence he had. I appreciate what  hes 
said and his experience. Hes offered an opinion of what was most likely to have happened  
to Mr R, not a definitive conclusion.  And an expert is, necessarily, obliged to comment  on 
personal issues that he genuinely regards  as relevant even if sensitive (or if the tribunal 
ultimately doesnt accept  them).
The AXA report reaches  an outcome  that the two experienced surgeons didnt consider one 
could reach,  despite  being the doctors  who actually treated the patient at the time. I consider 
the medical evidence put forward by Mr Rs surgeons equally as plausible and, considering 
they treated  Mr R, Im more persuaded by their conclusions. However,  this doesnt change 
my overall conclusions. So while Ive considered AXAs medical  report, it didnt alter my 
overall findings. As such, I wont be commenting further on it, including how the surgeon has 
addressed Mr Rs other medical  conditions (which, for the avoidance of doubt,  I dont regard  
as relevant to the insurance issues before me).
I havent, as alleged, concluded that AXA acted fairly by ceasing cover because  the 
February surgery was a result of the January surgery. On the contrary, Ive concluded that it 
was fair due to the admission being  the result of a medical problem Mr R had before he took 
the cover. That is materially  different. I appreciate AXAs current stance does reference the 
January surgery as a reason for ceasing cover. But its initial  reason  was wider, and is 
something it would have been  entitled  to refer back to if I had upheld this complaint. As 
I consider the initial reasons for withdrawing cover  were  fair, my decision  to favour the 
conclusions of S and his colleague over the report AXA provided doesnt  change my 
outcome.
In relation to the phone call, Mr R has said that he considers the section Ive relied upon 
ambiguous and says it has been  taken out of context. I think  Ive already fully addressed  that 
and this is effectively  the same argument  rephrased. However, for completeness,  AXA 
provided me with the whole call upfront and Ive listened to it all. I quoted what  I considered 
was the relevant part in my decision, having  heard the full conversation.  AXA didnt withhold 
the full call from our service, as Mr R has suggested. And I consider the very fact that S 
Ref: DRN1601219decided to interject with the phrase I dont think theres any doubt about  that makes his 
spontaneous opinion unambiguous and relevant to the matters  in dispute.
Ive explained  above why I consider the call, the March 2016 letter and November 2016 
letter all support  the conclusion that the adhesions were  a result of surgery that predated  the 
start of this policy. So Mr Rs comments have neither changed my mind on the importance  of 
the call nor persuaded me to ignore  it in reaching  my decision.
conclusion
Mr R chose to take out this insurance on a moratorium  basis, despite having had extensive  
bowel surgery less than three years  before  and with further bowel surgery scheduled. Based 
on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant fairly say it was wrong for AXA to stop paying his claim, or 
to decline further  claims  relating to that admission. Im in agreement with AXA that it seems 
most likely the mid-February 2016 admission and November 2016 follow-up surgery are all 
related in some way to previous surgeries he had on his bowel.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1601219