K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection 
with a home emergency insurance policy.
background
Ms S had a home emergency policy  that included plumbing and drainage cover.  Aviva  was 
the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Aviva or the insurer I include 
the home assistance company, call-handlers  and others for whose actions I hold Aviva 
responsible.
On a wet Saturday  afternoon in January, Ms S found water was constantly  running into her 
toilet cistern and out of the overflow  pipe through the wall to the outside. She called  the 
insurer for help. But it didnt send anyone  saying the policy didnt cover a leaking overflow.
Ms S rang around and found a plumber who came  that evening and quickly stopped  the flow 
by adjusting a screw  in the cistern. Ms S complained that the insurer  shouldve helped her  
and should reimburse her the plumbers invoice of £106.80.
our adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought that 
water escaping through the overflow  to the outside of Ms Ss property was excluded under 
the terms of her policy. So he didnt think that Aviva acted unfairly when it declined the claim. 
He said that, regardless  of the root cause,  the water escaping through the overflow pipe was 
the issue that was reported to Aviva. Also, he didnt think the problem met the policy  
definition of an emergency because the water was escaping through  a correctly operating 
overflow pipe.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms S 
and to Aviva  on 14 August 2019. I summarise my findings:
I wasnt satisfied that Aviva treated Ms S fairly by turning down her request for help.
The consequence was that she had to ring round on a wet Saturday  evening until 
she found a plumber who would help. Id seen his invoice for £106.80  marked  as 
paid. So I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct  the insurer  to reimburse 
Ms S.
Id thought about directing  the insurer to pay compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience Ms S suffered as a result of its unfair decision   and response to her 
complaint. But I thought  much of that distress and inconvenience was to do with 
being out of pocket since January 2018. So I was minded to find it fair enough to 
direct the insurer to pay interest at our usual rate.
Subject to any further information from Ms S or Aviva, my provisional  decision was that I was 
minded to uphold  this complaint. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited  to pay Ms S:
1.£106.80 in reimbursement of her plumbers invoice; and
Ref: DRN149458122.simple interest on £106.80  at the yearly rate of 8% from 20 January 2018 to the date 
of reimbursement.  If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it must tell Ms S how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ms S hasnt responded  to the provisional decision.
Aviva says it has nothing to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The policy provided  labour and materials up to £1,000.00 in the event of an emergency 
which was defined as follows:
Emergency
A sudden  and unforeseen incident  at the property  which is set out in any of the 'What 
is covered' sections  below  and which
 exposes  you or a third party to a health  risk, or
 causes  a loss of essential  services or damage  to the property,  or
 makes the property uninhabitable
One of the 'What is covered' sections included the following:
What is covered?
You are covered for emergencies relating  to your internal plumbing or drainage or 
both, which  results in total loss of water to your property or loss of water  to your 
kitchen taps, blocked  drainage, leaks or loss of toilet facilities  in your property
Examples of what we will cover:
 Blocked toilet
 Leaking  pipe

 Leaking  toilet

 Leaking  internal stop-tap
So the policy  covered plumbing emergencies that resulted  in leaks or loss of toilet  facilities.
Immediately after That 'What is covered'  section  was the following:
What is not covered?  
We will not cover the following

 Leaking  overflow pipes 
I will work through those  policy terms as they apply to Ms S.
Ref: DRN14945813I accept that the incident on 20 January 2018 was sudden and unforeseen. It involved water 
escaping onto Ms Ss concrete path.  Her plumber later described the overflow  as in full 
flow.
I think Ms S could still flush the toilet.  But it was a wet January evening  and Ms S was over 
seventy years old. So I think the incident exposed  her to the health risk of having a fall on 
the wet concrete path.  
The water was causing a white mark on the concrete. And it was flooding her garden.  So I 
accept that the incident was causing  damage  to her property. 
I have found the alternatives of a health risk and damage. So it isnt fatal to Ms Ss claim that 
I dont find the alternatives  of uninhabitability or loss of essential services.  
The incident  related to Ms Ss internal plumbing.  Something had gone wrong with the 
adjustment of her ball valve so that it wouldnt close when her cistern was full. And I think it 
was resulting in a leak from that valve into the cistern. Water in the cistern was overflowing 
into the overflow pipe.
In order for it to be fair for an insurer to rely on an exclusion clause, it has to be clear.  The 
policy couldve used clear  words  to exclude ball valves or to exclude  overflow  pipes that 
were dripping or running. Instead  the policy  didnt  say it excluded ball valves  - and it 
chose to exclude leaking  overflow pipes.
As far as I know, all the excess water was flowing  from one end of the overflow pipe to the 
other. The overflow pipe was carrying  all the excess water away  as it was designed to do in 
such circumstances. So, on balance, I dont  consider that the overflow pipe was leaking.  
The insurer  hasnt provided any recording   or detailed note  of what Ms S said when she 
first rang. So I find it likely that she described the problem as it was. And I think  that the 
insurer shouldve realised  the likelihood that the incident related to a leaking ball-valve  and 
that the overflow was a symptom of that. Further, the insurer  shouldve  realised  that the 
incident exposed  Ms S to a health  risk.
So Im not satisfied that Aviva treated Ms S fairly  by turning down her request for help.
The consequence was that she had to ring round on a wet Saturday  evening until she found 
a plumber who would help. Ive seen his invoice for £106.80  and its marked as paid. So I 
find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to reimburse Ms S.
Ive thought about directing the insurer to pay compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience Ms S suffered as a result of its unfair decision   and response to her 
complaint. But I think  much of that distress and inconvenience is to do with being  out of 
pocket since January 2018.  So I find it fair enough to direct the insurer  to pay interest  at our 
usual rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva  
Insurance Limited to pay Ms S:
1£106.80 in reimbursement of her plumbers invoice; and
Ref: DRN149458142simple interest on £106.80  at the yearly rate of 8% from 20 January 2018 to the date 
of reimbursement.  If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it must tell Ms S how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1494581