K822xcomplaint
Miss P complains  that due to mistakes  by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) and its 
systems she wasnt able to take up a 0% balance transfer offer.  She says shes  incurred 
losses as a result for which shed  now like to be compensated.
background 
Miss P wanted to take up a 0% balance transfer  offer from Bank of Scotland.  The deadline 
for doing so was 31 July 2018.  She opened an account and went  online to transfer the 
balance from her Halifax card but the system wouldnt let her. So on 11 July she emailed 
Halifax to ask it to resolve the problem. Ms P says she didnt hear back from Halifax  so on 
31 July, the last day for the offer, she called Halifax to try to arrange  the transfer by phone.  
This was also unsuccessful and in the end, Miss P wasnt able to complete the balance 
transfer by the deadline  date.
Miss P says she was left with no option but to pay off her Halifax credit card from her ISA 
account with the result,  shell now lose the interest on this amount. And because she wasnt 
able to take up the 0% balance transfer  offer,  shes lost the benefit of the interest free period  
to make the repayment.  Shes also unhappy  that, although the offer said she could  transfer 
95% of her credit limit of £1,000, she was then told the maximum amount allowed was £900.
And Miss P doesnt feel the £250  compensation already paid by Halifax  is enough for what  
happened or the impact its had on her. She considers Halifax should also reimburse  the 
£950 taken from her ISA to pay off her credit  card and allow  the balance  transfer  to go 
through.
Halifax accepted  that Miss P hadnt been  able to complete the transfer online. This was due 
to a systems issue with its internet banking and that a balance  transfer  between  these cards 
could only be done on the phone. However it acknowledged that when Miss P had called in, 
the issue hadnt been resolved. It offered her £250  for the poor service and the 
inconvenience shed  had.
With regard to the amount that could  be transferred  it said this was 95% of the available 
credit limit but this was rounded  down to the nearest  £100  to ensure there was at least £100 
credit available to the card holder.  On that basis the figure of £900 shed been given was 
correct. And it said the £950 paid by Miss P was the money she was required to pay to pay 
off her credit card so it didnt agree to refund it.
Our investigator acknowledged  Miss P had had a number of problems in trying  to arrange 
the balance transfer and upheld her complaint on this. But he felt the compensation offered 
by Halifax was fair and reasonable  and he couldnt agree it also needed  to refund the £950. 
Miss P disagreed and said, in effect, shed lost £950  as if the transfer  had gone  through  she 
wouldnt have withdrawn  this from her ISA. And shed have had longer to pay it off, interest 
free. The offer wasnt available  now so she couldnt  take it up even  if she hadnt already paid 
off the balance. She asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to broadly the 
Ref: DRN10586702same conclusions as the investigator although I have made  a slight adjustment  to the 
remedy as Ill now explain.
Where theres no information on any particular point , or the information available  is disputed  
as it is here on some  points, then Ive gone  on to make  my decision on the balance of 
probabilities, in other words whats more likely than not to have happened.
As set out above, Miss P wanted to make a balance transfer from her existing Halifax credit 
card to another one shed opened  with the Bank of Scotland. Unfortunately  as Halifax has 
explained, its system dont recognise these as separate entities so its not possible to do this 
online. I can understand how frustrating  this was for Miss P and Halifax  has acknowledged 
the problem this caused.
But its not just the online problem that was the issue  here.  Miss P sent in a number of online 
complaint forms asking for help to complete the transfer. Halifax  has said it cant  respond by 
email for security  reasons and Miss P didnt  want a call back so it had no option but to send 
a written reply. Ive taken  all that into account but even  so I consider there was a delay in 
getting back to Miss P not least as she had made  clear there was a deadline  of 31 July.
And on 31 July, the day before the offer expired,  Miss P called the Halifax to try and 
complete the transfer. Halifax says the recording of this call has been corrupted so I cant 
know exactly what was said but Ive seen Miss P had completed  a number of online 
complaint forms about the balance transfer, asking Halifax to put it right.  Im satisfied, 
therefore, that Miss P was anxious  to get this resolved and although I havent heard the call 
on 31 July, I think its probable that if shed been  able to complete the transfer in that call, 
she would  have done so. Unfortunately she couldnt  and although Halifax  hasnt  been  able 
to say why this was, its clear this caused yet more upset to Miss P at what  was clearly a 
difficult time.
Halifax has already  paid Miss P £250  for the problems she had and the inconvenience this 
caused. But for the reasons given  I dont think this fully reflects  the impact on Miss P over a 
three week period  in July 2018.  In the circumstances  Ive decided to increase  this by a 
further £100 to £350.
However I wont be asking Halifax to refund the £950 paid by Miss P. This was the 
outstanding balance on her Halifax credit card so its fair to say Miss P has had the benefit of 
this money and is required to repay it. For that reason, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Halifax to refund this.
Ive seen Miss P has also suggested Halifax should reverse the payment of £950 from her 
ISA and then transfer the credit balance to the new card. I sympathise  with the situation Miss 
P found herself  in - and its not for me to offer Miss P financial advice -but it seems that there  
were a number of other options available at that time that would have allowed Miss P to 
repay a lesser amount while she either sorted  out this problem or looked for another  suitable 
offer. In the event Miss P decided to pay off the full amount  but that was a matter of choice 
so I cant agree Halifax should now reverse the payment back into Miss Ps ISA. And 
because the cards are separate  I cant  ask Halifax to arrange to transfer  the balance  onto 
Miss Ps new card. 
I appreciate Miss P will have  lost some interest  on her ISA but the compensation Ive 
directed has taken this into account  as well as the inconvenience  and upset.
Ref: DRN10586703I note Miss P says she was given the wrong  information about the amount she could transfer 
but Im satisfied the amount  available was correct and in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the card. This allowed a balance transfer of up to 95% of the cards available credit limit but 
subject to it being rounded down to the nearest £100. This is what  happened here so I cant  
agree there was a mistake.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint in part and direct  Bank  of Scotland  plc 
trading as Halifax to pay Miss P a further £100 making a total compensation of £350  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her by its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1058670