K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled her claim for 
damage caused from a burst pipe, made under her home insurance policy.
background
Mrs R made  a claim under her home  insurance policy for water damage to her kitchen and 
downstairs bathroom.  She also claimed  for damaged electrical appliances and white  goods. 
RSA asked Mrs R to send  two quotes for the repairs to her kitchen. She says she was 
initially told she didnt have any contents cover even though she says she did. She was later 
also told that a separate  company would be appointed in respect  of the appliances she was 
claiming for. 
Once it received  the quotes, RSA appointed  a field assessor who inspected  the damage 
caused to her home. In their report, the field assessor said there  was damage to two of the 
kitchen units.  He also said some of the appliances  were in use and Mrs R had said she had 
been using the hob to cook.
Following the report, RSA told Mrs R it could  repair  the damaged kitchen  units  and wanted to 
test the appliances for damage. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with RSAs proposed  settlement. She also said the appliances arent 
now in the condition they were in immediately after the incident. She says they could have 
dried out but corroded inside. 
Mrs R was also unhappy with the way RSA dealt with her claim. She says she was initially 
told her kitchen and appliances  would be replaced. RSA then told her it would be looking to 
repair the damaged  kitchen  and items.  She also queried why if RSA thought the kitchen was 
salvageable, the use of professional drying equipment wasnt arranged.  
She also says she has experienced confusion with a number of different companies 
contacting her to inspect  the appliances.  She suffered stress  and inconvenience not having 
a working kitchen. She wanted compensation for the lack of cooking facilities  and the stress 
experienced from the delays and the various contractors turning up without appointments. 
She submitted a complaint  to RSA.
RSA responded  acknowledging it could have managed Mrs Rs expectations  better and 
hadnt been as proactive as it should  have been in dealing  with her claim. However, it also 
explained that she had contributed to the delay in settling the claim  by not contacting  it 
between December 2018 and January 2019  despite its efforts to contact her. So taking all 
of this into consideration, RSA offered Mrs R £100  compensation and an apology in 
recognition that it could  have handled her claim better.
Mrs R remained  unhappy with RSAs  decision  and brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that RSA had acted reasonably in relying on the expert opinion of 
industry professionals to request testing of the appliances  and arranging  for the kitchen to be 
repaired. He did, however,  think  that RSA hadnt done enough to compensate  Mrs R. He 
recommended an additional £100 compensation for the stress shed been caused  by the 
Ref: DRN14796162delays on RSAs part and also the confusion caused by various  companies contacting her 
and turning up without prior warning.
Our investigator also wrote to Mrs R giving her the opportunity to provide expert evidence 
that her kitchen was damaged beyond repair  in order that he could consider it before her 
case was passed  to an ombudsman.  
    
Mrs R didnt provide any supporting evidence but confirmed she disagreed with the 
investigators opinion.  So her case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide this complaint, its my role to consider whether, based on the evidence  
provided, I think RSA acted fairly in how it handled Mrs Rs claim.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen my decision is that RSA didnt handle parts of the claim 
well. I also think  it could have managed Mrs Rs expectations better. Ill explain why.
RSA needed to look at all the evidence  presented  to it. I can see it took into account a report  
from its field assessor whose opinion was there was damage caused to the base  units and 
doors in the kitchen  but not the wall units. The report also confirmed that Mrs R had been 
using the hob to cook and the fridge-freezer  was also in use. The field assessor wasnt sure 
how the dishwasher, washing machine and dryer would have been affected because  they 
were integrated units. 
I can see the field assessor attended  Mrs Rs home to establish  the extent of the damage  
and give his professional opinion. Ive looked  at the report and attached photos. This shows  
me that there was some damage caused to the kitchen but it seems not to the extent Mrs R 
has said. And I think that in the absence of any supporting evidence from Mrs R  such as 
evidence requested confirming her kitchen was damaged beyond  repair   its reasonable for 
RSA to rely on the findings detailed in the field assessors report  in offering to cover the 
repairs to the kitchen.
RSA said that testing the damaged appliances  was necessary, in order to establish  if they 
were beyond economical repair. And before  it could  consider the settlement its supplier had 
recommended. RSA acknowledged  this testing should have been arranged sooner and that 
its supplier had already  spoken to Mrs R regarding the appliances.    
I accept that there may now be corrosion caused  to the appliances but there might not be, 
and this is the reason for the testing  to establish the damage,  if any, caused.   
So I think its fair for RSA to want to arrange  portable appliance  testing. As detailed  above 
the field assessor confirmed some  appliances were still in use. And I think  its reasonable for 
RSA to want to assess the extent  of damage  to the appliances. I believe this would help it 
establish whether  items were in working order, could be repaired or needed replacing. I 
understand that a previous arranged appointment was cancelled at short  notice and 
appreciate this would have  caused Mrs R inconvenience.
Ref: DRN14796163Regarding RSAs request for quotes  from Mrs R to repair the kitchen. Mrs R initially said she 
couldnt get a quote for the repairs to the kitchen because it was close  to Christmas. She 
said her fridge-freezer  wasnt working  properly and her washing  machine and tumble  dryer  
were now temperamental. She said she also struggled without  an oven over the Christmas 
period and wants to be compensated  for this. 
From RSAs system notes, I can see it attempted to contact Mrs R, without  success, in 
December 2018  and January 2019,  regarding the outstanding quotes it had requested  from 
her. This resulted  in her claim being closed  in February 2019. RSA did reopen her claim 
upon receipt of the quotes.  So this shows  me that Mrs R clearly  contributed  to the delays 
over Christmas. 
So I dont  think that RSA needs  to compensate  Mrs R for any inconvenience she 
experienced over Christmas  as she has requested. I think  that damage of this nature will 
unfortunately always cause inconvenience  and whilst there  is never a good time, the 
closeness of the leak to Christmas in this case would  likely have added to this 
inconvenience.   
RSA felt that as a result of the amount quoted  it was necessary for a field assessor to attend 
and provide a report. I think RSA acted reasonably in appointing a field assessor to visit and 
assess the damage. This isnt unusual  in a case such as this, when its clear a visit to 
Mrs Rs home would be beneficial. RSA did acknowledge that it should have arranged this 
sooner. It also said it could have initially considered appointing a professional  drying 
company.
 
Its for Mrs R to prove  that the damage  shes claimed for was either caused by the original 
leak or poor claim handling by RSA. For example, Mrs R would need to demonstrate how 
RSA not providing  a professional drying company at the time of the leak,  made the damage  
worse. 
Whilst I have read Mrs Rs comments and sympathise with the inconvenience she has 
experienced, she hasnt provided  any evidence that the kitchen and appliances were 
damaged beyond repair by the leak or by RSAs handling of her claim. For this reason Im 
not persuaded that RSA has acted  unreasonably  by relying on the evidence presented to it 
to offer to cover the repairs to the kitchen.
Regarding the investigators recommendation that an additional £100 compensation is paid 
to Mrs R  I think  this is a fair amount. I agree that RSA could have acted more proactively in 
dealing with Mrs Rs claim. I think it could have appointed a drying company and I can see 
from its system  notes there was some confusion regarding which company was inspecting  
Mrs Rs appliances. However, I cant see any evidence that by not appointing a drying 
company further  damage was caused.  I can also see that Mrs R did contribute  to the overall  
delay in dealing  with her claim - by failing to make  contact with RSA,  despite it attempting to 
contact her. So I cant hold RSA solely  responsible for the delay in handling her claim.  
Im satisfied Mrs R has been frustrated with the various companies contacting her to say 
they would  be turning  up at her home  at short notice or unannounced.  Additionally,  she 
has had to arrange time off work  and this would have been stressful.  So I think  the increased  
compensation offered of £200  reflects the level of frustration and inconvenience Mrs R 
experienced from RSAs  handling of her claim.
   
Ref: DRN14796164Ive only made a decision on Mrs Rs complaint regarding  the events up until March  2019, 
the date she received her final response  letter from RSA. Up until this date I think the way 
RSA handled  her claim could have  been  better. I understand  that Mrs Rs claim is still 
ongoing, and RSA has appointed a loss adjustor to help move the claim along. If Mrs R is 
unhappy about RSAs handling of her claim beyond March 2019 she will need to make a 
separate complaint to RSA.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc 
should pay Mrs R £100 compensation  (on top of the £100 it has already paid her).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1479616