K822xcomplaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  on a store card.  
The store card account was opened in August  1998  and the PPI was sold during  a phone 
call later on, in June 1999.  
This complaint is in relation  to Mrs Bs store card account ending 7867.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. So, to keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision. 
background
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because they didnt feel Mrs B was given clear enough 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations. They thought this would have 
mattered to Mrs B because she had a pre-existing  medical condition and thought she 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy had she been  given clearer  information. 
FICL didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Bs store card account opened  in 1998.  FICL has provided a copy  of Mrs Bs original 
store card application   and I can see that PPI wasnt taken  at this time. FICL  says PPI was 
sold to Mrs B during  a telephone call in 1999. It seems to me that this is likely what  
happened.
 
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time. 
But that is understandable as it was 20 years  ago. So I dont know what it may have said to 
Mrs B when the policy was sold. But I havent  seen anything to suggest  that an adviser 
assessed Mrs Bs circumstances at the time and recommended  Mrs B take the policy.  So I 
think its likely the sale was completed  on a non-advised basis.
This means  FICL didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure 
Mrs B got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her.
Having looked  at the closest relevant policy terms, its clear  that any claims related to pre-
existing conditions arent covered under those terms. 
This is important, as Mrs B has told us that she suffers from an ongoing medical  condition  
which was diagnosed before she purchased  the PPI.
Ref: DRN19144792The exclusions about pre-existing medical  conditions meant that Mrs B wouldnt have been 
covered if she needed  to claim  for the pre-existing medical condition  or for something that 
was as a result of, or linked to, that pre-existing medical condition. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether the exclusion relating to pre-existing  conditions  was 
made clear to Mrs B at the time of sale.
Given that I dont know  what was said during the call  I simply dont know  what  was 
explained about the exclusions relating to pre-existing  medical conditions. But had the 
adviser explained the exclusions, I think it is unlikely that Mrs B would have bought the PPI if 
shed realised she wouldnt  be covered for claims resulting from her pre-existing  medical  
condition. 
Ive also looked  at the policy document.  Based  on what  Ive seen, I dont  think  the exclusion 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions was sufficiently brought to Mrs Bs attention.  I say 
this because having looked  at the terms and conditions, they also contained the terms for 
price and purchase protection, which were also included as part of the policy. So there 
was a lot of information for Mrs B to digest. The exclusions about  pre-existing medical  
conditions are listed some way into the document under Section 3  Exclusions.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mrs B would have bought  the PPI if shed 
realised she wouldnt be covered for claims resulting  from her pre-existing medical  condition.  
In the knowledge that the policy wouldnt cover claims for the one thing that she was most 
likely to be concerned  about, I dont think she would  have  considered  the PPI a useful thing  
to have. So, I think Mrs B has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.  
FICL has said that it doesnt think Mrs Bs medical condition  would have  affected  her 
decision to take out the PPI policy. Its based  this on the fact that Mrs B hadnt  mentioned 
that shed had any time off work  for her medical condition. FICL  also says that Mrs Bs 
condition is usually  a manageable condition which would  not affect the customers  
lifestyle and would be treated with medication.  
Ive thought carefully about what FICL has said, but I havent  seen enough  to say that this 
would have been the case. In the particular circumstances of this case, Im mindful  that 
Mrs B  who suffers from the condition  has confirmed that it was until sometime  after she 
took the policy that her condition became more controlled. While I cant know  for sure, it 
suggests to me that Mrs Bs condition wasnt controlled at that the time she took the policy 
out. And at the time of taking out the PPI, Mrs B wouldnt  have known  whether she would 
have needed to take any time off work for her condition.
It follows that I uphold  this complaint on the basis that I dont  think  FICL made it sufficiently 
clear that Mrs B wouldnt  be able to claim for anything linked to her pre-existing condition. 
And I dont  think she wouldve agreed to take out the policy had she known this. 
putting things right 
FICL should put Mrs B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs B would have owed when she closed her credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN19144793So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs B would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs B 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs B would  
have owed FICL  something  on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs B a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  compensate Mrs B as Ive explained  above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1914479