K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) declined  her 
total permanent  disability claim and cancelled her term assurance policy.
background
Mrs S had a level term assurance policy with L&G, which shed taken out on the 
recommendation of an adviser. That policy didnt cover Mrs S becoming seriously ill, so in 
July 2016 she called  L&G directly to talk about buying critical illness cover (CIC), perhaps  
to protect  her mortgage repayments. In that sales call L&G asked Mrs S a series  of 
questions, including: 
whether shed seen  a doctor, nurse or other health professional  in the last five years  for 
any condition affecting her kidneys or bladder;
whether shed had any medical condition, illness or injury  in the last twelve  months  that 
shed received treatment for over a continuous  period of four weeks  or more;  and
whether, in the last twelve months, shed  been referred for or had any investigations in 
hospital, for example a biopsy, scan,  or ECG.
Mrs S answered no to these questions. Based on her answers, L&G accepted  her 
application for a replacement  life insurance  policy that included CIC and total permanent 
disability (TPD)  benefit. After asking  L&G to increase the amount of cover,  Mrs S accepted 
the quote and her cover started in July 2016. 
Unfortunately Mrs S was diagnosed with cluster  headaches and fibromyalgia, and so in 
June 2018 she made a claim  under  the TPD part of her policy.  L&G received Mrs Ss claim 
documents in July 2018 and in assessing them, it saw that Mrs S had had symptoms  and 
procedures she hadnt previously told it about. 
So L&G asked Mrs Ss doctor for her medical  records from 2011 onwards,  in other words the 
five years prior to her taking out the policy. Her doctor sent some information  to L&G but not 
everything it had asked for. L&G followed  this up, and by early November 2018  it had the 
medical records it had asked for. 
The medical records showed that in September 2011 Mrs S had a hernia repair operation.  
And that shed been having ongoing  problems with her kidneys since at least 2012 and up to 
a few days before taking  out the policy, undergoing  various tests and procedures  including  
an operation to remove a kidney  in 2014. The records also showed  Mrs S had consulted  
doctors and undergone tests following a fall in 2015  that caused her dizziness and neck 
pain. 
In January 2019 L&G said Mrs S had made a reckless misrepresentation when she bought 
her policy.  In other words,  that shed not disclosed her full medical history when L&G had 
asked her questions  about this. So L&G avoided Mrs Ss policy  (cancelled it as if it had 
never existed) and declined the claim shed made. 
Mrs S thought this was unfair as her claim wasnt about her kidneys. So she complained  to 
L&G and provided  it with a letter from her doctor confirming that the cluster  headaches and 
fibromyalgia she was claiming  for werent  related to her kidney issues  or the fall shed had. 
Ref: DRN10472512In L&Gs  final response, it said that in the July 2016 call its sales  representative  had 
explained to Mrs S why it was important to answer  the application questions  correctly and to 
mention anything she was unsure of. And that Mrs S said no when asked specific  questions  
about any kidney  conditions, receiving treatment for four weeks or more,  and having  
investigations in hospital. 
L&G said Mrs Ss medical records showed  she should have answered yes to these 
questions. L&G said that had she done so, it would have asked for a medical  report which  
would have established Mrs Ss full medical  history. And that based  on her full medical 
history, it wouldnt have offered her TPD cover, which was the part of her policy shed 
claimed under. So L&G said it had been  right to avoid the policy  and decline the claim.
Mrs S was still unhappy L&G had declined her claim and avoided her policy,  and she also 
thought it had taken a long time to assess her claim. So she brought her complaint to our 
service. After looking into things, our investigator  said L&G had asked clear questions and 
that Mrs S had made a reckless misrepresentation by omitting relevant information. He 
thought L&G had acted fairly in avoiding Mrs Ss policy and declining  her claim. 
Mrs S disagreed because  she said the illnesses she was claiming for werent related to her 
kidney problems, and that she must have misunderstood L&Gs  questions. And she said 
again that she was unhappy  with how long L&G had taken to deal with her claim. Our 
investigator reviewed that and said that while the whole claim process had taken seven  
months, L&G needed to be thorough and consider her medical history. 
As Mrs S had disagreed, her complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs S, so Ill explain why.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately, it sets out the remedies available  to the insurer.
Ive listened to the July 2016  sales call, and thought  about what  L&G asked and how 
Mrs S answered. In that call L&G explained  it would ask Mrs S a series of questions and that 
she needed to answer accurately and tell it about anything shes  unsure of. Mrs S has told 
our service  she must  have misunderstood L&Gs questions. But after listening to the call 
I think the sales representative asked clear and unambiguous questions about whether  shed  
had any kidney problems  in the past five years, whether in the last twelve  months shed had 
any condition, illness or injury that shed received treatment  for four or more  weeks,  or 
whether in the last twelve months shed  had or been referred for any investigations in 
hospital. 
Ive heard that Mrs S answered no when asked these questions. But this wasnt  correct,  
because her medical records show shed consulted medical professionals  and undergone 
Ref: DRN10472513tests and procedures  on many occasions in the five years  prior to taking out the policy.  Many 
of these related  to ongoing kidney problems  in this time Mrs S underwent four operations.  
Three of these were related to her kidneys, including one operation in April 2014 to remove  a 
kidney. And in the seven months  prior to taking  the policy, Mrs S had investigations  for 
kidney pain and not passing  urine,  which was treated  by an operation to fit a stent  a few 
days before  taking out the policy. Mrs S also had a CT scan in August 2015 following a fall.
As Ive said,  I think L&G asked Mrs S clear  questions  about her medical history.  The tests 
and operations Mrs S underwent happened within the timeframes  it was asking about, and a 
relatively short time before she took out the policy  in 2016. And they were significant medical 
events, many of which were related to her ongoing kidney problems. For these reasons, 
I dont think Mrs S took reasonable care to ensure that the answers she gave L&G were 
correct. 
Im satisfied the incorrect answers  Mrs S gave to L&G made a difference  to the cover it 
offered her. I say that because L&Gs underwriting guidelines shows  that if Mrs S has 
answered its questions  accurately,  it would have charged her a higher  premium  for CIC. And 
that it wouldnt have  offered  her TPD cover at all, which is the part of the policy Mrs S made 
her claim under.  
For these reasons, I dont  think  it was unreasonable for L&G to conclude  that Mrs S had 
made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation when she took out the policy.  CIDRA  says 
that where theres a deliberate or reckless  misrepresentation,  insurers  like L&G can avoid 
the policy in question, decline  all claims on it and keep the premiums  that have  been  paid. 
L&G has avoided the policy  and declined the claim, and its records suggest  it has refunded 
the premiums Mrs S paid.  So I cant say L&G has treated Mrs S unfairly here. 
Mrs S says L&G took too long to assess her claim. From L&Gs records  I can see it received 
the claim documents in July 2018. Soon after,  L&G asked Mrs Ss doctor for her medical 
records, and it chased her doctor on several occasions over the following months. By the 
end of October 2018 L&G had all the information it had asked for, and by January 2019 it 
had given Mrs S a full answer. So I dont think L&G took an unreasonably long time to 
assess the claim, and Im satisfied L&G didnt cause any unnecessary  delay.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1047251