K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about an annuity  he took out with Standard Life Assurance Limited 
(Standard Life) in 2000. He feels the annuity  was mis-sold because he wasnt  told of the 
open market option (OMO) nor was he told he could  have been entitled to an enhanced rate 
because of his health conditions at the time.
background
In 2000 Mr F chose to take his pension benefits early. He held his pension with Standard  
Life and purchased the annuity directly from it without any independent  financial adviser 
(IFA) or broker involvement. Also, no advice was given by Standard Life that he should buy 
this particular annuity.
At the time of taking  the annuity  Mr F was suffering from a medical  condition  and because of 
this he feels he lost out on the opportunity of potentially  getting an enhanced  rate because  
he wasnt told this could  happen.
The investigator who assessed the case was of the view that it couldnt be upheld. She felt 
because Standard Life hadnt provided any advice to Mr F, Standard Lifes  obligations were  
to only provide enough information to Mr F for him to make an informed decision.  It didnt  
have to carry out any specific suitability assessment or even ask full questions about any 
health and lifestyle  conditions that might  impact the annuity he could get.
Mr F didnt  agree with the assessment and remained  of the view he was mis-sold his 
annuity. He also added  that he wasnt provided  with the booklets the investigator referred to 
in her assessment.
While the investigator considered the points Mr F raised,  she wasnt  persuaded  to alter her 
initial outcome.  So as no agreement could be reached the complaint has been  passed to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Mr F took his annuity in 2000 which was before there was any established industry guidance 
which set out obligations  on advisers  and providers in relation to the information they gave 
their clients  regarding the OMO and the impact of health and lifestyle issues  on their 
potential rates. In addition  to this, Mr F acquired his annuity directly from Standard Life and 
didnt receive any advice, so as the investigator  stated  in the assessment, all Standard Life 
had to do for Mr F was to give him enough  information for him to make an informed decision.
Standard Life has said it provided Mr F with a number of booklets in the Settlement pack  it 
sent him as part of setting the annuity up. Ive seen that the booklet entitled making the 
most of your retirement  states that the client is not restricted to taking the retirement 
benefits from Standard Life and can take it from another insurance company.
I appreciate this doesnt contain a huge amount of detail but there was no specific industry 
guidance established at that point in time. While  it could be argued this is sparse, all 
Ref: DRN15365252Standard Life was doing, in my view, was reminding  Mr F of a right he had under his existing 
policy to shop around for the best annuity. I think it was fair and reasonable for Standard 
Life to draw Mr Fs attention to his options,  but I cant fairly  say Standard Life had to do 
anything further  at that point in time.
As well as this, there were no regulatory rules  or industry codes saying the provider had to 
disclose the existence of the OMO or explain this at this time. And nothing to say they had to 
outline what things  other providers  might  choose to take into account  to improve  the annuity  
rate. For Mr Fs information the first industry  guidance wasnt  circulated by the Association of 
British Insurers until August 2001,  and this developed into regulations  the following year.
Its also important to point  out that the booklet sent to Mr F did recommend consulting  an IFA 
if the client was unsure  about any aspect of the pensions.
I appreciate Mr F has said he didnt receive this booklets but Standard  Life has confirmed it 
was sent  and from my experience these  booklets were sent in these type of situations  as a 
matter of course, so I have little reason to doubt  the booklet was sent. I think its more  likely 
than not that it was.
Overall therefore, because of the way Mr F bought his annuity and the lack of specific 
detailed regulation, I think Standard Life did all it had to at that point in time so I cant  
conclude that it did anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1536525