K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Nationwide  Building  Society returned a payment made into 
their current  account. 
background
Mrs M is a landlord and shes unhappy Nationwide reversed  a payment made into her 
current account by one of her tenants. She says it shouldnt have done  so without telling her 
first and as result  shes lost out on the chance  to evict the tenant sooner and advertise for a 
new one. This has caused her financial issues  and distress.  She wants  Nationwide  to refund 
the £575 to her.
Nationwide said in its final response that it received a request from the bank that had sent 
the money to return it as it said it hadnt  cancelled a standing  order. Even if this payment 
from Mrs Ms tenant shouldnt have been  recalled by the tenants bank, Nationwide was 
obliged to return it when  it was recalled by the tenants bank. Nationwide has acted  correctly  
and in line with its procedures. It hasnt made an error.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms current account say that if another  bank 
tells Nationwide  that money has been paid into it by mistake then an amount up to 
that mistaken payment amount will be taken from the receiving account  if Nationwide  
is reasonably satisfied there was a mistake. The terms and conditions also say 
Nationwide doesnt have to tell its customer before doing so but will attempt to call 
first. 
The tenants bank  made an error by making the payment and it contacted Nationwide 
asking it to send  the money back.  Nationwide followed  its own processes about  
mistaken payments  and returned the money.  It also attempted  to call Mrs M which it 
isnt obliged to do.
Nationwide hasnt  made an error and she cant ask it to do anything more.
Mrs M remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
When the tenants bank recalled the payment saying it had been sent by mistake  I think  
Nationwide acted in line with its processes and the terms and conditions  of the account by 
sending the money  back. It also attempted to contact Mrs M although it wasnt  obliged  to do 
so.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Nationwide made  a mistake. And although I 
understand Mr Ms frustration at what has happened I dont think I can fairly or reasonably 
Ref: DRN13963202now require Nationwide  to do anything more, including refunding the £575  to Mr and Mrs Ms 
account as Mrs M would like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1396320