K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out for a dual 
credit card account in 1995. Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs Bs credit  card application  had a section for PPI. It offered her the choice to pay for 
the cover  or to turn it down. The box to buy PPI was ticked, whereas  the box to turn it 
down was left blank, and Mrs B signed  the form to confirm her choices. So I think  that 
Barclays made it clear Mrs B didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  
though I can understand why she might not remember this anymore after so long.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs B, so it had to check that the policy  was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, it looks like Mrs B was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.  The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Bs sick pay and 
offered her more  comprehensive cover. And she doesnt seem to have had any other  
cover in case she lost her job. So the policy  couldve been useful for her in case she was 
off sick or out of work.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But it looks  like she chose to take out the policy, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover.  As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover, and it could  have been  useful  for Mrs B in case  
something went wrong. And the policy was paid on a rolling  monthly basis, so Mrs B 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  it out. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN12255282what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mrs B any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs B the difference  
between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mrs B 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1225528