K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
The PPI started when Mr T took out his credit  card. From what we know  of how Halifax 
normally sold PPI policies  like Mr Ts, I think its likely Halifax  asked whether Mr T wanted  
the PPI  and added it to his credit card application only after hed said that he wanted it.
Mr T doesnt think this happened in his case.  He says that at no point was it made clear to 
him that the PPI was optional. But Mr T made the credit  card application well over a decade 
ago. And buying  credit  card insurance  is often not very memorable. Taking  these things into 
account, I wouldnt expect  Mr Ts recollection of the sale to be detailed  or vivid. With this in 
mind, Mr Ts recollections on their own arent enough to make  me think Halifax  didnt give 
him a choice about the PPI like I think it normally wouldve. And Ive not seen anything else 
that makes me think Halifax  didnt  give Mr T a choice.
So, on balance, I think its likely Halifax made  it clear  that Mr T didnt have to take the PPI 
and he chose to take it  but I can understand why he might not remember this now.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr T, so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And from 
what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances at the time, I think  the PPI was right for him. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   so he 
couldve claimed the PPI benefit if the circumstances arose.  
Also Mr T seems to have  had a need for the cover. His work  sick pay wouldve halved after 
six months. And from what hes told us about  his savings, I dont think  this wouldve made  up 
for all of that loss of pay. The PPI gave  Mr T unemployment and sickness  cover  for his credit  
card payments for up to twelve months  per claim. And the benefit was payable  in addition to 
Mr Ts work  sick pay or redundancy  pay.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think its likely he chose to take it - so it looks  to me like he wanted this type of 
cover. And, for the reasons  Ive already given above, it seems like the cover wouldve been  
useful for Mr T if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mr T off 
taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr Ts points  but, for the reasons  Ive already given above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN12980652What Ive said above means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mr T paid for it. But Halifax has already  offered  to give Mr T back some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand Halifax  has 
already paid this to Mr T.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1298065