K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS),  Halifax at the time, mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr S says it wasnt  made clear  to him that the policy  was optional, but hes not been able to 
remember anything else about  how the PPI was sold to him and hes not given me any other  
information about what he was told at the time. But BoS has provided a copy  of the credit 
card application  form Mr S saw and signed,  which included a section with some additional 
products available. These products  were  listed under the words: If you want  these services 
please mark the relevant boxes - and theres a cross in the box for PPI. But there isnt a 
cross in the box for the other product available. So I think its likely both these products were 
discussed and Mr S agreed to take out the PPI, knowing it was something he didnt have to 
have. Mr S then signed the form, consenting  to the information contained  within it. So based 
on all the evidence Ive seen I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the policy was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for it.  
Mr S says the PPI wasnt suitable for him as he was entitled to sick pay from his employer at 
the time.  But upon a successful claim this PPI wouldve paid out 10% or £10, whichever was 
greater, up to a maximum of £2,500 for up to 12 months. And this wouldve been  on top of 
his sick pay entitlement.  So his sick pay wouldve been free to use for other  expenses. Ive 
also not seen  any evidence that Mr S had any means to make his repayments had he been  
made redundant. So I still think  the policy was suitable for Mr S, and I think  he wouldve  
found it useful  had he needed  to make a claim. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr S back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
understand BoS has already paid this to Mr S and I dont think  it needs to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN15773062my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1577306