K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that Nationwide  Building Society didnt provide them  with a
redemption figure  for their mortgage. As a result, they were charged extra interest.
background
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage term was due to end at the end of November 2018. Mr M rang
Nationwide on 30 October. He said their mortgage was coming to an end and he wanted the
final settlement figure. Nationwides  adviser  said she would send it to him. There  was one
more payment due on 28 November,  and the adviser said the figure she gave wouldnt take
account of that payment. So the actual figure  theyd  have to pay would be less than the letter
would say. The adviser said the letter would  also include details of how Mr and Mrs M could
make the final payment.  The letter  would  be printed  out that night so they should have it
within the next five to seven working  days.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  get this letter. On 7 November, Nationwide sent a standard  letter about
the end of the mortgage term. It said the mortgage  had one month to go, but it didnt give
any figure.
On 9 November,  Mr M rang again. He explained that hed rung over a week  ago, and hed
been promised  a final settlement figure  which they hadnt received. The adviser replied that
Mr M hadnt spoken to anyone in his team. He said Nationwide  couldnt  provide a
redemption figure  until the day of redemption. Mr M asked why the previous adviser had said
she would  send out the figure, and the adviser said it looked  as if shed given the wrong
information. That was because the figure changed every day, so by the time a letter  was
sent out by post it would be wrong.  The adviser told Mr M to ring on the day he had the
money.
Mr and Mrs M paid their last direct debit on 28 November. The mortgage term ended  on 30
November.
On 6 December,  Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs M saying  their mortgage term had ended
and they needed to pay the outstanding balance. This letter  did give the outstanding balance
figure but went on to say interest is continuing  to be charged on this amount at a daily rate
of £33.03.
Mr and Mrs M received this letter on 13 December. The next day, Mrs M rang Nationwide.
She explained that theyd rung three times for a settlement figure, and had been told
settlement would be after the last payment at the end of November.  Theyd been waiting for
the figure. The letter theyd just received had given  a settlement figure but had also added
£33.03 a day interest since  the end of November. Mrs M pointed out that theyd asked for
the figure several times  before, and theyd  only received the letter  at lunchtime  the day
before, but Nationwide had already charged  them.
The adviser said they could give redemption figures over the phone  for a specific day, but
Mrs M said theyd  never been given  a settlement figure despite asking for it. The adviser
also said there was only one record of them speaking to his team, and he had no record  of
who else theyd spoken to. Mr M joined in the conversation and said that theyd phoned
three times, and no way had anyone given them a figure,  and it wasnt  fair that they should
pay for someone in Nationwides  office  not doing  their job. He said it was ridiculous  that
Nationwide had waited  till 13 days  after the last payment had been made, and had then said
Ref: DRN15156392it was going to charge extra interest.  Mr and Mrs M complained.
In its final response,  Nationwide said that its adviser  on 9 November  had been  wrong  to say
the first adviser couldnt have provided  a redemption figure, because  this wouldnt be
available until the day of redemption. It offered Mr and Mrs M £50 compensation, which  they
refused. But Nationwide said the adviser had told Mr M to ring back  when they had the funds
 and they hadnt done so. Mr and Mrs M werent  satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator upheld  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She appreciated that Mr and Mrs M
hadnt rung Nationwide at the end of November for the redemption figure. But she accepted
that if theyd been given  a redemption statement earlier, they wouldnt have incurred the
interest.
She said that Mr and Mrs M had rung Nationwide on at least two occasions, and hadnt been
given the figure. And Nationwide had wrongly told them that it couldnt provide the figure until
the day of redemption. She also pointed out that it would have made all the difference if
Nationwides advisers had pointed out that it would charge £33.03 a day for every day the
mortgage wasnt settled  after it ended on 30 November.  Instead, theyd been led to believe
they couldnt do anything until after theyd made the final mortgage payment.
The investigator accepted that it would take Nationwide time to generate  a letter  after the
final payment, and Nationwide wasnt accountable for postal delays. But by the time
Nationwides letter reached Mr and Mrs M, theyd already incurred £462.42 interest. She
considered Nationwide should  refund this.
Nationwide refused. It sent long and detailed objections. These included saying that:
- Mr M had been told on 9 November that he should ring back  when he actually 
wanted to pay off the mortgage;
- Mr and Mrs M knew the mortgage  was to end at the end of November;
- interest had been charged daily throughout the mortgage,  in line with the terms and
conditions, so there was no need  for the adviser  to point  out that this would continue
after the end of the term;
- Nationwide said that it had sent a redemption statement after Mr M spoke to the
30 October adviser. It also said that if Mr and Mrs M had said they didnt have 
enough money to pay off the mortgage,  Nationwides advisers would have provided a 
redemption figure  over the phone.
Mr and Mrs M commented that although  postal delays  werent  Nationwides fault,  they
werent their fault either.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Nationwide raised  multiple points in its submissions to the service. I said that I had 
understood and looked  into all of those, but I had commented on what  I thought was vital to 
my conclusions.
phone calls
Ref: DRN15156393I listened to the call recordings for 30 October, 9 November and 14 December. There was a 
conflict of evidence about the number  of calls. Mr and Mrs M said they rang Nationwide 
three times before the mortgage end date at the end of November. Nationwides  adviser on 
9 November said he didnt  have a record of any previous calls. Nationwide  provided call 
recordings for one previous call as well as the 9 November call, making  two in total before
the end of the mortgage term. But I didnt consider it made a lot of difference whether there 
had been two phone calls or three before the end of the mortgage term on 30 November. 
The issue  was whether Nationwide did enough  to provide Mr and Mrs M with the figure  they 
needed, and whether  it did enough clearly to explain  how its redemption  process  would work
for Mr and Mrs M.
figures promised in 30 October call
I accepted Mr and Mrs Ms evidence that they didnt receive the letter  with the settlement  
figure which they were  promised in the 30 October  call  because thats why they rang again 
on 9 November. And if Nationwide had sent the figure as the 30 October  adviser promised, I
thought it would have been  reasonable to expect the 9 November adviser to have told Mr 
and Mrs M what  that missing letter had said, when they rang to chase  it. I recognised that 
the 9 November call handler said he had no record of any previous calls because  he was in 
a different team. But it shouldnt have been Mr and Mrs Ms problem if the previous call and 
any document sent out hadnt  been recorded on Mr and Mrs Ms file on Nationwides 
systems. I considered the call handler should have taken the trouble to try to provide the 
information theyd  been told had already been sent out.
when the redemption figures could  be provided
Nationwide accepted that the 9 November adviser  was wrong to say Mr and Mrs M couldnt  
have a redemption  figure until the day of payment. It argued the adviser  told Mr and Mrs M 
to ring again for a redemption figure, on the day of redemption. It was true that the adviser  
did say this. And Mr and Mrs M didnt ring again  until they had another  letter from 
Nationwide, which was in mid-December.  But I didnt think  it was reasonable to expect 
customers to have  to ring up on the day they wanted  to pay off their mortgage,  to find out 
how much  it would be. I considered it would be fair to expect the figure  to be provided in 
writing, and not just on the day, for such a large and important payment.
I also didnt think it was reasonable  for Nationwide to have agreed that the 9 November 
adviser was wrong  to say Nationwide couldnt provide a figure  unless Mr and Mrs M rang on 
the day, but to argue  that Mr and Mrs M should  still have rung up as that adviser wrongly  told 
them.
what would  have happened if Mr and Mrs M had had the figures
I considered that Mr and Mrs M would  have paid off their mortgage on time at the end of
November, if theyd  been provided  with a correct figure in a timely way. This was evidenced 
by the fact that they chased Nationwide repeatedly for the figure in order  to pay it, and by the
fact that they did pay off the mortgage after they got the figure in December.
The first time a figure  was provided to Mr and Mrs M was in the letter they received on 13
December. They rang Nationwide  promptly when they got this letter.  I accepted they didnt 
get the letter any earlier, because the phone recording  shows that, although polite, they were
cross about the content of the letter. I didnt consider theyd have sat on this letter when the 
information about interest had annoyed them.
Ref: DRN15156394Nationwide argued  it shouldnt be responsible for postal delays and that it had sent out
the letter Mr and Mrs M received on 13 December,  on 6 December. Mr and Mrs M said
that they shouldnt have  to lose out because of postal delays either.
Even 6 December was, of course,  subsequent to the end of the mortgage term on 30
November. But I found that Nationwide should have provided the redemption figure earlier.  If 
a figure  really had been sent out after the first call, the 9 November adviser  should have 
quoted it. I accepted that interest  does vary daily,  but it shouldnt have been  impossible  to 
provide a letter with a reasonably accurate figure, which told Mr and Mrs M how the figure 
was calculated, and what daily interest  would be. Indeed, such information is almost  always 
requested and provided when a property is being sold or remortgaged.
No-one at Nationwide ever properly explained exactly how and when Mr and Mrs M were to
be given the figure. Nor did Nationwide ever tell them how the whole process would work, 
either in regards to payment, or in related matters such as receiving their deeds  back after 
theyd paid.
Mr and Mrs M simply werent  provided with enough information on any of this. And some of
what they were told was wrong.
Nationwides other objections to refunding the 14 days interest charged
I considered Nationwides other objections to refunding the interest it charged after the
end of the mortgage term. I agreed  that Mr and Mrs M knew  the mortgage  was to end at the
end of November   but that was why they tried their best to pay it by then. Given  the 
questions Mr and Mrs M were asking, I found it was reasonable to expect  Nationwide  to 
have told Mr and Mrs M in advance that interest  would continue  to be charged if they didnt 
pay by 30 November. Although Nationwide had the power to charge, under the terms and
conditions, I considered it was reasonable to expect Nationwide to have given Mr and Mrs M
the information, in the light of the conversations  that happened.  I didnt  consider  it was fair to
rely on small  print from detailed terms and conditions which  Mr and Mrs M had probably last
read some years earlier.
I also didnt accept Nationwides  argument that if Mr and Mrs M had said they didnt have
enough money to pay off the mortgage,  Nationwides advisers would have provided a
redemption figure  over the phone.  This penalised borrowers who  like Mr and Mrs M - did 
have the money,  were  willing  and keen to pay off their mortgage on time.
So I considered that Nationwide  shouldnt  charge  them  interest from the due date at the end 
of November to 13 December. This total was £462.42, for 14 days at £33.03  a day.
distress and inconvenience
I went on to consider the distress and inconvenience  that Mr and Mrs M suffered as a
result of Nationwides failure to provide  the redemption figure promptly  and efficiently.  They
had to make  multiple  calls, and didnt receive adequate information  either  about  the figures
or the process.  I could well understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration  when they received a 
letter on 13 December which said theyd already been charged interest, which  they hadnt 
known would happen.
Also, the letters I saw did nothing to explain how and when the figure  would be provided,
Ref: DRN15156395or what would  happen  if there was any delay. And as Ive set out above,  the phone  calls just
made it worse.
I considered Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs M some compensation for the distress and
inconvenience this caused. I said that Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs M £100  
compensation for distress and inconvenience,  as well as the £462.42 financial loss.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs M said that they agreed with my findings, but wanted  to say that at no time ever 
had they said they didnt  have enough  money to pay off the mortgage. They already had the 
money in place, and theyd  never  have said that. They said that they received the last letter 
on 13 December after 1pm. They couldnt get to Nationwide that afternoon, but theyd been 
on the doorstep as soon as Nationwide opened  the next morning. But theyd still been  
charged for that days interest.
Nationwide said that it was important for members to contact the Society prior to a mortgage 
term ending. But it said it would accept  my provisional decision in order to resolve  the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the response to my 
provisional decision. Having done  so, I see no reason to depart  from my original 
conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order Nationwide Building  Society to pay Mr and Mrs M:
- £462.42 financial loss, for 14 days interest which it charged them;
- interest at 8% on £462.42,  because Mr and Mrs M lost access to this money.  The
interest should be calculated from the date Mr and Mrs M paid the money to 
Nationwide, to the date when Nationwide  pays the compensation. If Nationwide  
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate;  and 
- £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1515639