K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the refund and compensation offered  by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS)  after they accepted rejection of a vehicle he had on finance 
with them.
background
Mr D took receipt of a used car in February 2018. He financed the vehicle through a four 
year hire purchase agreement. But there  were  several faults with the car in the first few 
months and MBFS therefore accepted it had been  of unsatisfactory  quality and allowed Mr D 
to reject the vehicle and terminate his finance agreement with them.
They offered  to return two monthly  instalments and pay him £150  to compensate  him for the 
inconvenience hed experienced. They  also promised to return his deposit.
But Mr D didnt think theyd gone  far enough  so he referred his complaint to this service  and 
our adjudicator provided her opinion. She noted that Mr D had been off the road for a total of 
38 days but had been provided with a courtesy  car throughout and that hed been  able to 
cover 5,761  miles in the seven or so months hed had the car. And taking all things into 
account she thought the offer MBFSs had made  was fair in the circumstances.
But Mr D disagreed. He said MBFS had taken too long to provide  a resolution to his 
complaint and we should  have taken greater account of the fact hed been paying for the car 
on a hire purchase basis and was paying  more each month  so he could own the car outright 
at the end of the agreement. He also felt wed not taken into account the undue stress; loss 
of enjoyment and the fact hed had to cancel two road trips as the courtesy cars couldnt be 
taken out of the country. So he asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint as I think MBFS should have  added  interest on to the 
instalment repayments  and the deposit. But I think the rest of the redress  theyve suggested  
is reasonable. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When MBFS agreed to allow Mr D to reject his car they needed to consider how they could 
put him back  in the position he wouldve been  in if the problem hadnt occurred. Theyre  not 
obliged to put Mr D in a better position.
Its usual in these  circumstances to return any deposit and add 8% simple interest per 
annum. I dont think MBFS, initially at least, offered to add the interest but they should  do.
Ref: DRN16950732Id expect them to consider returning  instalments for periods when Mr D was without his 
vehicle but to take into account the benefit  hes had from a courtesy car. Here I can see the 
adjudicator has calculated Mr Ds car has been at the garage for 38 days  and MBFS has 
offered to refund two monthly instalments. I think thats enough in the circumstances but they 
should add 8% simple  interest per annum to their calculation from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.  MBFS have explained that Mr Ds car experienced problems in March, 
July and September. The September  fault seems the lesser of the three so I think it would be 
fair for MBFS  to return finance instalments paid in March and July 2018  and add 8% simple 
interest from that point.  I asked MBFS to consider this and they have  agreed. 
Id expect MBFS to consider compensating Mr D for the inconvenience  hes experienced as 
a result of this issue. They have provided  a hire car throughout and Im satisfied that, whilst 
they did take some time to resolve  the complaint, they did offer Mr D referral rights to this 
service within  the timescales  required of them.  I understand Mr D says hes missed out on 
two road trips abroad but I dont think it would be fair to suggest MBFS provide additional 
compensation on that basis.  I think their offer of £150 is fair in the circumstances.
Mr D says they should have taken account of the fact his instalments were higher as he was 
funding the car through a hire purchase  agreement.  The instalments MBFS are returning  are 
those under this agreement and are therefore proportionate.
Since the adjudicator provided  her opinion I can see that Mr D has been kept mobile and has 
chosen to keep the courtesy car rather than have his old one back. Hes now returned the 
courtesy car and it seems MBFS have refunded his deposit and added 8% interest to this 
payment so that Mr D is in a position to source a replacement  vehicle. As Mr D has been 
kept in a suitable courtesy car, and has chosen  to keep  it during that period, I dont think  any 
additional compensation needs to be considered for the period  since the adjudicator  issued 
her view on this matter.  
So overall I think MBFS need to add interest to the instalments theyre returning but I wont  
be asking them to take any additional  action.
Ref: DRN16950733my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
allow Mr D to reject his car and terminate  his finance agreement with nothing more to 
pay 
refund  Mr Ds deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement if this hasnt  already been done
refund  the instalments Mr D paid in March  and July 2018  and add 8% simple interest 
per annum
pay Mr D £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1695073