K821x#15complaint
Ms H is unhappy with how British Gas Insurance Limited (British  Gas) handled a claim she 
made under her HomeCare 2 policy.
background
Ms H called British Gas in January 2017 as her boiler was losing pressure. 
An engineer  from British Gas attended. He couldnt  find a leak on the boiler. The boiler 
continued to lose pressure and Ms H contacted British Gas again. A further three  engineer 
visits were carried  out but no problem with the boiler  was identified.
Ms H has said at this point she was advised  by a British Gas engineer that the leak may be 
in part of her central heating system  so she should arrange for this to be checked. Ms H 
contacted a local company who came to trace a leak on the central heating  system. They  
couldnt find a leak.
As the boiler continued to lose pressure  Ms H called British Gas again. In February an 
engineer attended and identified an issue with the heat exchanger  on the boiler.  This part 
was replaced, resolving the issue with the boiler.
In November 2017 Ms H asked British Gas to install a new radiator in her kitchen. There  
were some issues  with fitting  the radiator which left a number of holes in the wall behind 
where the radiator  was fitted.
Unhappy with the damage to her kitchen wall Ms H complained to British  Gas. At this point  
she also raised a complaint about  what had happened earlier in 2017.
British Gas looked into her concerns. It explained  that the radiator had now been  fitted  
correctly. And as the damage was behind  the radiator it offered to plaster the wall if she ever 
removed it. British Gas has told our service that it has subsequently been out and repaired 
the wall but Ms H disputes  this. It asked for further information to look into her concerns on 
what had happened  in January and February. It wanted to see an invoice from the local 
company who had carried out the trace work and any photos Ms H had. As she hadnt  
supplied this information it said it couldnt consider this further.
Ms H brought her complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into what  had 
happened. British Gas explained that the policy Ms H had with it would have covered 
problems with her central heating so she should have asked it to trace any leak. And 
because it wouldve covered her for the work it wasnt  willing to reimburse. It also said if Ms 
H had kept calling it, it wouldve kept attempting to trace the leak and it hadnt been given a 
fair chance to complete the work.
Our investigator didnt  think British  Gas had treated Ms H fairly. She said it should cover the 
costs Ms H had paid, fix any holes behind the radiator and pay £50 for the trouble and upset  
caused.
British Gas didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
Ref: DRN16932662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
were British  Gas given a fair chance to trace the leak?
British Gas doesnt feel it had been  given a fair chance to complete the work before Ms H 
decided to employ a third party  company.  Ive thought carefully about this point and, based 
on the evidence,  I think it was.
British Gas engineers  attended Ms Hs home four times in January to try and resolve the 
problem with her boiler. And it wasnt until an engineer visited her home in February that the 
fault was identified and the heat exchanger replaced. 
British Gas has said issues  with the heat exchanger are difficult to identify. And this is why it 
wasnt picked up in its first four visits. I appreciate that it may have been difficult  to diagnose 
the issue with the heat exchanger on the first visit. However, I would  have expected at least 
one of the three further engineers to have identified  the fault. And taking into account  that 
British Gas had four attempts to identify the fault Im satisfied  it was given a fair chance  to 
trace the leak prior to Ms H employing  a third party.
British Gas has said the policy Ms H had with it wouldve covered her for tracing  a leak with 
the central heating  system. And therefore she didnt need to employ a third party. Ms H has 
said she was told by one of the British  Gas engineers she would need to have the central 
heating system checked out. 
I appreciate there is little evidence of what conversation took place, if any, between Ms H 
and an engineer. British Gas has said that it wouldve expected  its engineer to write on the 
front of a job sheet  any advice theyd given. And as there wasnt anything  written down it 
didnt think its engineer had advised Ms H. 
Ms H has provided a written note she says was given to her by an engineer  suggesting a 
leak with the central  heating  system.  And British Gas has confirmed this note is written on 
the back of one of its job sheets. So Im persuaded it was more likely than not an engineer  
that advised Ms H to have the central  heating system checked. And Im satisfied this is the 
reason why Ms H didnt  contact British Gas to ask for further  assistance  until it had been 
identified there wasnt  a leak on the central  heating system.
And even  if I wasnt persuaded by the note I think it would be unlikely for Ms H, to have 
decided of her own accord,  to employ  an independent company to investigate the central 
heating system to trace the leak.  I think it would have been more  likely than not suggested to 
her by an engineer.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that British Gas was given a fair chance  to trace 
the leak. And, as the policy she had with it wouldve covered  this work Im satisfied it should 
cover the cost.
damage to the wall     
Ref: DRN16932663Neither British Gas nor Ms H dispute that damage was caused to her wall. Its how the 
damage has been repaired that is the issue.
British Gas has said it has repaired and made  good the majority of the holes behind the 
radiator. Ms H disputes this. She has provided photographs, with the radiator in situ, which  
suggest there are still some areas  of the wall that havent been made good. I think  British  
Gas should resolve  this issue.
Ms H has said she doesnt want British Gas to carry out the repair  work. Shed like to employ 
a plasterer to do this. Based on the evidence  Ive seen Im not persuaded the wall needs re-
plastering. But I do think there is some further  repair work to be carried out. I will leave it for 
British Gas to decide  if they want to find a third party to carry out the repair  work or 
reimburse Ms H directly  to use her own person.
trouble and upset
I have no doubt  that this wouldve caused trouble and upset to Ms H. Not least because she 
had to have floorboards and carpets taken up in her property to investigate  her central 
heating system. Im satisfied that British Gas should pay Ms H £50 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint. In full and final settlement of it, British 
Gas Insurance  Limited should:
(a)Pay Ms H the £375 she paid to a third party to trace a leak with her central heating 
system.
(b)Add 8% simple interest*  to the above  from date of payment to date of settlement.
(c)Make  good the damage caused to her kitchen wall.
(d)Pay Ms H £50 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
*If British Gas Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Ms H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1693266