K820x#14Complaint
Mr J asked his bank,  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to raise a chargeback  to recover  the money  he 
paid to an online dating platform. This complaint is about the failure of the chargeback  
process and the quality  of service provided by Barclays.
Background
Mr J registered with an online dating platform, which Ill call Q, in May 2017. Using his 
Barclays debit card, he purchased several credits  and began using the service. Whenever a 
member of this site sends  an electronic letter to another member  or uses the live chat 
function they pay with these credits. Mr J sent letters to and received  letters  from several 
different members. Over  the course of his subscription he became  dissatisfied with the 
quality of the responses received and began questioning their authenticity, suspecting the 
people he was conversing with were not genuine and were engaging with him purely  to 
encourage him to spend more credits. 
He requested a refund  from Q as he was not getting  the service  he signed up to. They 
refused, so in March  2019 Mr J complained to Barclays who agreed to investigate whether a 
chargeback would be possible.  They opened  13 cases  totalling £1849.42
The status of the cases was as follows:
One case chargeback  not raised  - outside  of the 120-day limit
Two cases  chargeback not defended by Q - £283.93 refunded to Mr J.
Ten cases defended  by Q and not taken further by Barclays
The cases  Barclays opened  were  under  the classification  merchandise/service  was not as 
described. Q did not defend two of the chargebacks and these were refunded to Mr J. They  
did not provide  a reason  why these were not defended. As regards the other 10, the defence 
evidence submitted was primarily that Q had correctly provided the service (i.e. the credits) 
Mr J paid for. They said they could not be held responsible for the actions of others on the 
dating sites and submitted the terms and conditions Mr J agreed to which  supported their 
position. 
Barclays requested information  from Mr J which could support the chargeback process, but 
they said this was not forthcoming. As a result, Barclays decided not to take the chargeback  
further in the 10 cases  given  that it had been  defended and they had no countering  evidence  
to use.
Mr J complained to Barclays about  this decision. In their response Barclays rejected  his 
complaint but acknowledged that the service they had provided to Mr J was not good 
enough. They offered him a total of £300  in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by the handling  of the chargeback process.
Mr J was not happy with this outcome  so brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator said that we can only look at the actions of Barclays in relation to the 
request for chargebacks  to ensure  they followed the rules set out by the card provider, VISA.  
The investigator would not look at the behaviour or merits of the dating websites where Mr J 
used the credits,  as this is not something we would investigate  in respect of how Barclays  
dealt with the chargeback. 
Ref: DRN14629532The investigator looked at the time limit rule set down by VISA, in that complaints need to be 
made within 120 days  of the transaction. Her view was that Barclays had been correct  in not 
raising chargebacks  for the transactions which occurred outside the 120-day rule. 
In respect of the chargebacks that were defended, the investigators view was that Barclays 
correctly followed the procedures set by VISA and their decision not to take the chargeback  
further was reasonable.
She then looked  at how Barclays  had handled the complaint, the level of impact  this had on 
Mr J, and considered whether the offer of £300 was a reasonable one in the circumstances. 
She acknowledged the length of time the complaint had taken to be addressed and the 
stress this caused, so felt the amount was fair and in line with our services  approach  to 
compensation.
Mr J did not agree so the case was passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make clear  that my decision isnt a reflection of the service that Mr J received  from 
Q, or the associated dating websites - that is not what we can look at in respect of his 
dispute against Barclays. I must focus solely on the way Barclays handled  the chargeback 
process and establish  whether it followed the rules. I also need to decide if I feel Barclays 
treated Mr J fairly, both in the way they applied the rules in his case  and in the handling of 
his complaints.
I agree  with the investigators views and for broadly the same  reasons.  Ill explain why.
The chargeback process;
To begin with I think it might be helpful  if I explain what a chargeback scheme is, and how it 
works. A chargeback is where  a consumer disputes a transaction  and asks the card provider 
- Barclays  in Mr Js case - to claim the money  back from the bank account of the business 
that provided the goods or service. A chargeback  isnt a legal right,  but is a voluntary 
scheme operated  by some card providers,  including VISA. There are a strict set of rules by 
which the bank  must  abide, and a bank  doesnt have to raise  a chargeback or, if it is 
defended, to continue to the arbitration  stage,  if it looks clear to them that the claim has little 
chance of being successful. Arbitration is the final stage of the process and it is when the 
card scheme (VISA)  make a final decision on whether the chargeback  rules  were followed. 
Firstly, I have considered the transactions that Barclays did not raise as chargebacks.  A 
chargeback is something I would  expect Barclays to have attempted  on behalf  of Mr J if 
there was a fair chance  of it succeeding. VISA set limits on the time between  the 
transaction(s) and when  the complaint was raised with the card provider. This limit is 
120 days. Having looked at the dates of these transactions, they were  outside this limit. 
Therefore, I believe Barclays were right not to raise  these  as chargebacks.
They did however raise the remaining  transactions.  The merchant, in this case  Q, can 
choose to defend the chargeback if they wish and present  evidence  to support their defence.  
Ref: DRN14629533They did not defend two of the transactions and Mr J was refunded £116.88 and £167.05 for 
these. 
As these  two have  been concluded  I shall now focus on the remainders. 
As I said earlier,  a bank doesnt  have to raise a chargeback or to continue to the arbitration  
stage, if it looks clear  to them that the claim has little chance of being successful. Q 
defended these remaining transactions and provided evidence that they said supported their 
case, namely:
that Mr J had received  the credits he had paid for, and had used them  all on the 
dating sites by writing  to and chatting with several different women, and
the terms and conditions Mr J signed up for when  he registered on the site. Q drew 
attention to the terms that they could not be held responsible for the behaviour  of 
members or the way other  sites (called  Member sites on the terms and conditions) 
conduct themselves.
Barclays said they contacted Mr J and asked him to provide  evidence  that could  assist  them  
in disputing the evidence provided by Q. They said Mr J did not respond  and I have  seen no 
evidence to counter  this. Given  this, I believe it unlikely that Barclays would have been 
successful at arbitration and as such I have  decided, on balance, the decision to not take the 
chargebacks further was not unreasonable.
In addition to the position  above, I also can see Mr J received all the credits he paid for, 
there is no dispute in that. What he is dissatisfied  with, is the service he received when he 
spent the credits on the member sites. Having looked at the terms and conditions of Q, I 
believe this is not Qs responsibility. Hence, I believe this is additional  evidence  that supports 
Barclays position that it is likely the chargeback would have failed, and their decision not to 
take it further.
Customer service;
It is not disputed  by Barclays that their customer service in dealing  with Mr Js complaint was 
not what it should have been.  They have already given him £300  in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience he suffered due to the delays in concluding the matter. I need  to 
assess whether this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr J first raised  this complaint in branch in March 2019 and it took until July for Barclays to 
come to their conclusion. From  looking  at Barclays customer  contact logs it is my opinion 
that there  was a degree of confusion  and different information given to Mr J at various  
points. He was understandably concerned and stressed that he had been  the victim of an 
on-line scam and felt he had been defrauded of his money. He was asking for Barclays  help 
and I feel that their lack of consistency  in answers  and the length of time it took to come to a 
final decision  added to Mr Js stress. Because of this, I believe the £300 already given to him 
is reasonable. As a result, I do not believe Barclays need to do anything else. 
I can see Barclays have given him details of Action Fraud and I would urge Mr J to contact 
them if he hasnt already.
I must say I have some sympathy for Mr J. I can fully understand his anger  and upset as he 
feels his money was taken. This, however distressing, doesnt necessarily mean that 
Ref: DRN14629534Barclays has followed the wrong process in trying to recover his money, and it is my opinion, 
as Ive explained above, that Barclays dont need to do anything more  in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1462953