K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  their agents.
background
Mr P bought an Ageas car insurance  policy in September 2017. His premium cost under 
£300 for the whole year.  In February  2018, Mr P bought  another car so he asked for the 
policy to be amended to remove the original car and for the new car to be covered. Ageas 
did what is known as a mid-term  adjustment (MTA) and charged  Mr P an additional premium 
of around £250  (including fees) to cover the car for the remainder of the policy.  That meant 
the cost of the policy for the whole year went up to around £550.
Mr P felt the additional  premium was too high, so he questioned Ageas. He said Ageas told 
him that if a mistake had been made they would adjust the premium at renewal.  But when 
his policy  was due to renew in September 2018,  Mr P said Ageas renewal invitation asked 
for £750. He didnt  renew with Ageas and went elsewhere and got cover for around £400. 
Mr P said he believes  the additional  premium was wrongly calculated.
Ageas looked  into it but said the additional  premium was correctly  calculated and that the 
premium went  up because  of the change of car.
Mr P didn't  think that was fair so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. She felt that on the whole Ageas had calculated  the additional  
premium fairly. But she said it wasnt fair for Mr P to be charged a brokers commission  fee 
of £24.08, because he had also been  charged an admin fee of £25. She recommended  that 
Ageas refund the commission fee to Mr P. But as Ageas didnt agree with our adjudicator, 
the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 September 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr P, but Im not intending  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr P has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all 
those carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Ageas have  dealt with Mr P in a fair and reasonable 
way.
calculation of the additional  premium
Mr P believes the increase to his premium when  he changed his car was excessive 
and unfair.  It might  help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator.  That means 
it's not my role to tell an insurer how much  they can charge for their policies.  And our 
service generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they 
treat customers with similar  circumstances in the same  way - insurers  are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Ref: DRN10491792When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of 
risk rating factors. In other  words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder 
poses and the likelihood of them making  a claim in the future by looking at many  
different factors. It might  help if I give just a few examples  of the many factors 
insurers consider: the type of car insured; where  the car is kept; the policyholders  
occupation; the policyholders age; the type of licence the policyholder has; the length 
of time the car has been owned; the number of years the policyholder  has been 
driving; and past driving incidents  the policyholder has been involved  in. But its not 
down to me to tell insurers  what factors  they should take into account when 
assessing risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Different insurers  will have
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a 
matter of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against the need  to compete with 
other policies on offer,  and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere 
with.
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the 
same risk is because insurers have different views on risk. So, different insurers give 
differing levels  of importance to different factors. For example, one insurer might 
consider the insured car to be a high risk car and therefore charge a higher premium 
to reflect  that risk. But another insurer might not consider that particular car to be 
high risk, so their premium might be lower. Insurers base their views on risks using 
statistics and other data.  In Mr Ps case,  the replacement car he bought  was newer  
and was worth more than his previous  car. Ageas, like almost all insurers, rate cars 
on many  aspects, including: the model,  the cars age, its value etc. As insurance is 
essentially an assessment of risk, I dont  think theres anything wrong with insurers 
considering whether or not certain  cars fall into higher  risk groupings and so wish to 
charge a higher premium to cover that risk.
Ageas provided  me with information to show how Mr Ps additional premium was 
calculated. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Mr P. 
But having  looked at it carefully, Im satisfied that Ageas treated Mr P in the same 
way as they would other  policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think  they 
calculated his premium  reasonably.
commission charge
When Ageas  made the change to the policy to add the new car, they charged  Mr P a 
£25 admin fee. That is something they are entitled  to do under the policy.  Admin fees 
are charged to cover the cost of carrying out one off administrative tasks,  such  as 
making an amendment  to the policy.  And we think its fair for insurers to charge a 
reasonable fee when carrying out such administrative tasks.
In addition to the admin fee, Ageas also charged Mr P a commission fee of £24.08 
for their broker. Commission fees are charged to cover  a brokers  costs  of 
administering a policy from the advice stage through to renewals and expiry,  
including the cost of providing and maintaining the systems and people  to do that. So 
I think the commission fee Mr P was charged was reasonable.
Finally, for completeness, Ive listened to the call between Ageas and Mr P when Mr 
P called to have  his policy amended.  Mr P told us that when he questioned the 
additional premium,  Ageas  call handler  told him that they would adjust the additional 
premium at the next renewal. But Ageas call handler didnt say that. He said they 
Ref: DRN10491793couldnt alter the additional premium, but at renewal they could try to give him a good  
price.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Ageas accepted my provisional  
findings. But Mr P didnt agree and reiterated  his main points. He also said the renewal 
premium he was offered  for the 2018  policy year of £750 was too high.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Mr Bs further  comments, as follows:
As I mentioned in my provisional decision,  Ageas took into consideration a large number of 
risk rating factors when working  out Mr Ps premium. Likewise,  they considered all those 
factors when  they offered  him the 2018  renewal. Its correct that the 2018  premium offered to 
him was almost £200 more than the 2017  premium. But I should  say that the process of 
setting premiums is very complex. Insurers review risk factors very regularly  and often risk 
ratings change.  To give a hypothetical example,  the risk level of a certain model  of car on 1 
February 2018 may increase  on 3 February 2018. That may be because  on 2 February  2018  
the insurers updated statistics show the particular model to be a higher risk. Equally,  risk 
ratings on factors may decrease. So while certain factors, such as a policyholders car or 
address, my not change from one policy year to the next, the risk ratings on those factors  
may change  which may make the premium  increase  or reduce the following year.
As Ive said above,  there are many, many  factors,  most of them inter linked and complex, so 
it would  be very difficult to explain each and everyone. But from the information Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that Ageas treated Mr P the same they would have any other customer with the 
same circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1049179