K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the application form. I can see it is a printed  form which  
wouldve been used  during a branch  meeting.  So I think Mr D applied  for the credit card and 
was sold the PPI during a branch meeting.
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit  card application signed by Mr D in 2002.  I can see 
the application form contains a section about  PPI. I note a box has been marked with a cross  
to add PPI to the account. 
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The application 
form contains details  of Mr Ds circumstances at the time. So I think the form was likely  
completed during  a discussion, then printed and passed to Mr D to check  and sign.  I think 
its likely  the PPI was discussed and accepted by Mr D during  this conversation. 
The PPI remained on Mr Ds account  for several years  during which  time the monthly 
premiums appeared  on his statements.  If it wasnt  something he wanted  or asked for Id 
expect him to have  questioned it at an early  stage, but Ive seen no evidence that he did.
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Mr D didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this after so many  years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr D so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. 
Mr D has told us hed receive  full sick pay from his employer for up to six months followed by 
half pay for a further six months. But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Mr D couldnt work.  And the benefit  would be paid in addition  to any sick pay. So I 
still think Mr D would  have found the policy useful if he became unwell, particularly if he was 
unable to work for a prolonged period.
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Mr D had lost his job, meaning he could 
use any savings or redundancy payment for other living costs. Mr D has also told us he 
could have sold his car to help make the card repayments but the purpose of PPI is to 
provide cover so Mr D wouldnt have to take such drastic steps. And Im sure Mr Ds family  
wouldve liked to help him but that kind of help isnt guaranteed and Mr Ds family may not be 
in the position to help him when he needed it most.
Ref: DRN12374122Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr D off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr D paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to pay Mr D back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1237412