K820x#14complaint
Miss Ws complaint against Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) is that it incorrectly  applied an 
arrestment order to money  in her account. 
background
In February 2019,  £320 in Miss Ws account  with BOS was arrested following the issuance 
of a court order. 
As soon  as Miss W realised what had happened, she contacted BOS explaining it must have 
been a case of mistaken identity, and she wasnt the subject of the court  order.  
BOS checked the position, and it transpired that the original error had been made by the 
court, and the arrestment  order  was wrong.  So it removed the arrestment  from Miss Ws 
account.
Miss W didnt think this was good enough.  Shed been entirely innocent,  and until the 
mistake had been corrected shed been  without access to a big proportion  of her monthly 
salary. She thought  she should receive some compensation.
BOS didnt agree. It said the court made  the original mistake.
Miss W brought her complaint to our service, and our Investigator  didnt uphold it. She said 
that BOS had only acted on the information contained in the court  order. 
Miss W again  didnt feel this was fair, and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
I looked at the case, and it seemed very straightforward to me. Yes, the mistake  had its 
genesis with the court, but that didnt absolve  BOS if its own obligation to do the correct level 
of cross-checking before applying the arrestment  to Miss Ws account. Had it done so, it 
would have become clear  she wasnt the intended person for the court  order. 
So I told both parties what my position was, and that I intended to uphold  the complaint.  I 
asked for any responses by a deadline.  Im now issuing  my final decision  which is to 
uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As per my provisional view, Im upholding this complaint. Miss W did nothing  wrong, and had 
not only the shock, worry and inconvenience of sorting out BOSs mistake, but shes also 
had the added stress of brining her complaint to our service to achieve  a fair outcome.
Its not in dispute  that the arrestment order issued by the court was incorrect.  However, that 
doesnt mean that BOS is entitled  to say nothing that happened to Miss W was its 
responsibility. Once the order was received from the court, Im satisfied that some  simple 
due diligence  and cross-checking  would  have made  it clear the order  wasnt  directed at Miss 
W. And so it would never have been  applied to the account, and shed never have had any 
of the inconvenience and worry  she suffered.
Ref: DRN18767922Im not saying BOS  isnt entitled to rely on the accuracy of a court  record.  But human errors  
can be made, and I think the perpetuance  of the mistake could easily  have been stopped 
with some basic actions by BOS. I dont  think its unreasonable  to expect this.
I dont think Miss Ws being unreasonable in asking for compensation. She did nothing  
wrong, and had to sort matters out. For a few days she had no access to money she 
needed, and had to rely on family.  Not to mention the panic she must have felt when this first 
happened. A court order for arrestment  is no minor  matter.
Im disappointed that BOS  hasnt dealt with Miss W fairly. Im upholding her complaint, and 
asking it to pay her £100 compensation.  I think this is a fair outcome for both parties.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay Miss W £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1876792