K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2005. Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them  
the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage in 1994. In 2005,  when  arranging a further advance, they 
took out a PPI policy. They paid a monthly amount  for the policy.
The policy was part of a packaged  protection policy called  a Total Mortgage Protection
Plan (TMPP).  A TMPP can be made  up of three different elements  a PPI policy,  life cover 
and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover  can be added or taken out as 
the consumer  wishes.
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy  called Mortgage  Repayment 
Cover - which covered  accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment - not any life or 
critical illness cover.
Mr and Mrs E were  both jointly insured on the policy for 50% of the benefit. If either of 
them had made a successful claim,  the policy would have  paid out the relevant proportion 
of the repayment  benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Halifax had to make  it clear  to Mr and Mrs E that the policy was optional and they had to 
agree to take it. Mr and Mrs E have said they didnt know they had the policy, so they believe 
it was added without  their knowledge. Halifax doesnt have  all of the paperwork from that 
time, which isnt surprising considering this was more than 12 years ago. So I need to decide 
what I think  is more  likely  to have  happened.
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have been asked for 
their consent  to the cover.
I have been given copies of internal records from Halifax  and these show details of questions 
and answers that relate to the PPI product. This would  suggest that a conversation took 
place with the advisor, in which the answers to these questions  were obtained. And I think  
its more likely that the advisor  would have told them the questions  related to the PPI policy.  
Ref: DRN16297532So with the limited information  I have available to me, I think  its more likely  that 
Mr and Mrs E knew the policy was optional and they agreed to buy it, knowing they could 
refuse if they didnt  want it, even if they dont  remember that now.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs E. This means it had to take reasonable steps  
to recommend something that was suitable for them.  And based  on what Ive been told 
about their circumstances, I think it was. I say this because they appear to have been eligible 
for the policy and dont  seem to have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions or 
limitations to the policy cover, such as having unusual working arrangements or suffering 
from a medical condition of which they were already aware.
And I think it could have provided a useful benefit  to them. Mr E said he would have received 
between three and six months  of pay if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness.  
Ive noted that we were originally told Mrs E would  also receive  sick pay for the same length 
of time as her husband but we have subsequently been told that she would have received 
sick pay for 12 months. Having noted her profession  and who she was working for, I do think  
she would  have received sick pay for 12 months,  but I think its unlikely  it would have been 
full pay for the whole of that duration.  This policy would have paid out for up to 12 months 
which would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay they would 
receive. 
And the policy would  provide cover for the same length of time if they were to lose their jobs.  
Whilst Ive noted  Mr and Mrs E have said they had some savings, this policy  would have 
allowed them to protect their savings or use them to cover other essential living  expenses. 
As a mortgage is a large financial commitment secured  against  the home, by having  this 
policy it would have  given  them reassurance  if something had gone  wrong.
Mr and Mrs E have  said they could have  asked their family  to help meet  their repayments. 
Whilst Im sure their family would have wanted  to help, such support  cant be guaranteed as 
their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable  to provide financial 
assistance. So this point doesnt  change  my decision.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
So overall, when  taking everything  into account, I dont think  Mr and Mrs E have lost out as a 
result of another that Halifax  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16297533
Ref: DRN1629753