K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Virgin Money  Plc didnt give her sufficient help when a change  of 
circumstances meant  that she was finding  it difficult to pay off credit  card debt. 
background
Miss M has a Virgin Money  credit card. Initially, she benefited from an interest-free 
promotional period, but that came to an end in August 2018.  Shes  explained that she had to 
reduce her working  hours  to care for a relative, and that her income  fell as a result.  
She called Virgin Money  to see what it could do to help. But, because  Miss M was making 
regular payments above the minimum monthly  payment required, it said it wouldnt agree to 
a repayment plan. So Miss M asked if, in the circumstances,  it could  reinstate  the interest-
free offer. Initially, Virgin  Money said it would agree to that but it later said that had been an 
error; it offered instead to suspend  interest for three  months and to pay Miss M £75 in 
recognition of its error in saying it could do more.  Its agreed further suspensions of interest 
while this service has been considering Miss Ms complaint.  
Miss M didnt think Virgin Money  had done  enough  especially since  shed been told the 
interest-free period could be extended  further. She brought her complaint to this service  
where one of our investigators looked at it. The investigator thought however that, by offering 
an apology, a partial suspension of interest and £75, Virgin  Money had done enough to 
resolve matters. Miss M didnt agree and asked that the case  be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, as the final stage in our consideration of it.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I do of course have a good deal of sympathy for Miss M. It appears that the promotional  offer 
she enjoyed came to an end at around  the same  time she had to reduce her working hours.  
And its obviously unfortunate  that Virgin Money  initially said it would be able to reinstate that 
offer before correcting itself once it realised  that it had come  to an and a few months earlier. 
But I can see why Virgin Money didnt think a payment plan was appropriate. Miss M has 
been able to make payments above the minimum required each month; that in turn has 
reduced the account balance and enabled  Miss M to continue  to use the card on a few 
occasions. And her credit records wont have been affected in the same way they might 
have been had she been put on a payment plan.
I can understand too why Miss M feels that Virgin Money should do what  it said it would and 
waive interest indefinitely.  (At the rate Miss M was making payments, it would have  taken 
her around two years to pay off the credit card account.) Im satisfied that this was a genuine 
error on Virgin Moneys part, for which its apologised. And I note that Miss M doesnt  appear 
to have changed the way she was using the account as a result  that is, she continued  to 
make the same monthly  payments. 
In all the circumstances, I agree that Virgin Moneys offer  an apology, a shorter interest-
free period  and a payment of £75  was sufficient to put things right.  
Ref: DRN14477822my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I believe that the resolution that Virgin Money Plc offered is 
enough, and I dont require it to do any more  to resolve Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my 
decision before  9 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1447782