K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about his Lloyds Bank  PLC (formally Cheltenham & Gloucester) mortgage. 
Originally he complained  that Lloyds was allowing his ex-wife  (who lives in the property) to 
pay less than the contractual mortgage payment  (CMP) and that he wanted the property 
taken into possession. Latterly, the complaint  has evolved to be that Lloyds should have 
switched the mortgage back to interest-only and not taken  legal  action to take possession.
background
Mr B took out this mortgage in his sole name  with Lloyds in May 2007. He borrowed 
£388,000 (plus fees) on an interest-only  basis over a 25-year  term. Mr B stopped paying the 
mortgage in November 2007 as hed lost his job. Legal action  was taken which  led to a 
Possession Order being granted  in July 2008.  As Mr B restarted paying the mortgage  plus 
an amount towards  the arrears  eviction action wasnt taken.
Mr B tells us he left the property in 2010  as his marriage broke down. Mrs B remained in the 
property, with Mr B continuing to pay the mortgage  plus a sum towards the arrears.
In April 2011 Mr B stopped paying  the mortgage  again, and so legal action recommenced. 
The court this time issued a Suspended Possession  Order which  said that the property 
wouldnt be taken into possession if the stated payments were made each month.
The account  continued to run in line with the order, with Mrs B making the payments,  until 
February 2013 when  Mr B told Lloyds he wanted to switch  the mortgage  to a repayment  
basis. That increased the CMP from around £830  to £2,130 a month. Mr B has said he made 
the change to repayment as he was expecting a significant bonus from his employer and he 
intended to make overpayments to the mortgage. He says he asked for the mortgage  be 
switched from interest-only to repayment with a view to making a lump sum payment upon 
receipt of his bonus.
Mr B made no payments (or overpayments)  to the mortgage and as Mrs B couldnt afford the 
new higher CMP arrears quickly built up on the account.
In April 2013 Mr B and Mrs Bs divorce was heard in court  and the judge awarded  the 
property to Mrs B. The court said, in summary, that Mr B must provide his authority for 
Lloyds to discuss the account with Mrs B, Mr B must  arrange for the property to be 
transferred into Mrs Bs sole name, and Mrs B must use her best endeavours to take over 
the mortgage from Mr B.
None of this happened and Lloyds  went back to court in August 2014 to again seek 
possession of the property. Mrs B defended  that action on the grounds that it would make 
her and their children homeless, and provided  details  of the divorce  order.  
The court ordered that Lloyds accept payments of £1,250 a month from Mrs B (an amount 
that was more than the interest-only  instalment, but less than the CMP repayment amount). 
Mrs B made those payments, but as the account  was never formally switched to 
interest-only again arrears  simply built up each month.
Mr B complained about that, saying Lloyds  accepted  an arrangement with Mrs B without his 
consent. He also said the property should  have been repossessed  rather  than the arrears  
being allowed  to grow.
Ref: DRN10481242Our investigator said Lloyds could  have switched the mortgage  to interest-only at the time of 
the court hearing in August 2014 as the court ordered payments of less than the repayment 
CMP be made. He said Lloyds should  rework the account as if that change had taken place 
to see what position  it would be in now, and refund any fees and charges (including legal 
costs) that wouldnt have  been incurred. He also said £500  compensation was fair.
Lloyds agreed  to that and provided  its calculations.  Mr B has now said that Lloyds 
aggressively pursued legal action and that had caused him adverse consequences  which  
meant he wanted £100,000 compensation. He has also (and variously)  said the account  
reconstruction should be:
backdated to 2008 when the account  went into arrears, or
backdated to when Lloyds reached  an agreement with Mrs B for a reduced payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr B has set out his account of events in considerable  detail. I trust he wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial  between, and 
independent from,  consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent  
either party. Were required to decide whats fair and reasonable having assessed all of the 
available evidence from the parties.
This is a case where the mortgage lender is unfortunately caught in the middle of an 
acrimonious divorce. Mr B says he stopped paying  the mortgage in 2011 as Mrs B was 
granted a deduction of earnings order over his income for child maintenance, but thats  not 
of Lloyds concern.  The contract  here was between Mr B and Lloyds, and that contract was 
that hed make the CMPs in full and on time.
That said,  Mrs B starting to pay the CMPs once she was made aware   due to repossession 
action  that Mr B was no longer paying. Ive no reason to believe Mrs B would have stopped 
paying and so the status quo would have  remained. However Mr B decided  to tell Lloyds he 
wanted to switch the account to repayment.
Mr B has said why he did that but his explanation  doesnt  make sense, not least  because as 
I understand it, he wasnt making  any payments  to the mortgage  at that time let alone  any 
overpayments as he said he was going to make. Ive looked  carefully  at the account  and 
Mrs B continued making the interest-only  payments, and there were no payments from Mr B 
to cover the extra due under a repayment  mortgage. There also was no need to switch  to 
repayment to make  overpayments as the account  at that time wasnt subject  to any early  
repayment charges,  so Mr B (and/or Mrs B) could overpay as much  as they wanted without 
incurring any charges.
Its not my place to speculate on why Mr B made that change, all I need to decide is whether 
Lloyds was right to accept  Mr Bs request and switch the mortgage at that time; and it was. 
Unfortunately from that point things spiralled. 
Ref: DRN10481243In August  2014  the court ordered  Lloyds to accept payments  of £1,250  a month from Mrs B. 
When Mr B complained to us he expressed  his dissatisfaction  that Lloyds had entered into a 
payment arrangement with Mrs B without  his consent, and said it should instead have 
repossessed the property  as Mrs B couldnt  afford  the repayment CMP. To explain, Lloyds 
didnt agree to a repayment arrangement, it was ordered by a court;  Lloyds had no option 
but to accept it and so it didnt need  Mr Bs consent  to do so. It also couldnt repossess  the 
property if Mrs B kept to the payment arrangement for the same reason,  it was a court order.
Our investigator said Lloyds could  have formally  switched the account  back to interest-only 
at that time as it knew the payments would be less than the repayment  CMP and so that 
would have been fair. I agree Lloyds  could have done that, and having considered 
everything Im pleased to see Lloyds  accepted  our investigators recommendations and 
reworked the account on that basis.
But it seems  Mr B now wants  more, he says that by not doing that in August 2014 Lloyds 
aggressively pursued legal action and caused  significant detriment to him. Ive considered 
his points very carefully but Im not persuaded by them.
Ill come  back  to my comment that Lloyds  could have switched the account back  to 
interest-only. I can fully understand why Lloyds didnt make the change  at that time as Mr B 
was very clear that it was against  his express  wishes and that he wanted the mortgage to 
keep the repayment CMP and for the property to be repossessed. As Mr B is the account 
holder I can understand why Lloyds would  be hesitant  to go against  his wishes. But having 
considered everything  I agree with our investigator that its the fair thing to do here, and so 
weve told Lloyds to make  the change (and backdate it). Just because  weve  now told Lloyds 
to do it doesnt  mean  Lloyds was wrong not to make  the change earlier against Mr Bs 
wishes. That, combined with Mr Bs earlier complaints that Lloyds wasnt  doing  enough  to 
repossess the property,  lead me to conclude Lloyds wasnt acting inappropriately in being 
hesitant to make changes.
Mr B has said there are errors in the account  history and he doesnt agree with the figures  
given for the account rework. As our investigator explained, we dont provide an auditing 
service or carry out a forensic  analysis  of mortgage records.  Ive looked at the transaction  
history and theres nothing on there that stands  out as looking suspect. Of course, its open 
to Mr B to instruct an independent  qualified  professional to audit his account. But that would 
have to be at his expense  though if errors were found to his financial detriment, he could 
complain about  that and his costs in discovering the errors could be taken into account in 
putting matters right.  But as things stand, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has made a mistake 
with his account.
Everything has a context. Mr B was clear that he wanted the property repossessed,  and its 
only now hes said Lloyds aggressively pursued  legal action to his detriment. Lloyds didnt do 
anything wrong  in not backdating a switch to interest-only  until we told it to because  as that 
time  it was against Mr Bs express  wishes and he is the account  holder. 
The switch  is backdated to the date of the 2014 court order  as thats the point Lloyds had no 
choice but to accept a payment was that lower than the repayment  CMP; theres  no grounds 
for it to be backdated to any other  date. Now Lloyds has backdated the switch  I understand 
the account has moved into credit,  and as part of the reworking Lloyds agreed to waive  all 
the legal  fees incurred  since August 2014. 
Ref: DRN10481244Whilst Mr B has talked  about the impact on his credit reference file, that was caused  by him 
switching the mortgage to repayment   knowing Mrs B couldnt afford it  and not making  
any payments to the mortgage himself. Even with the switch to interest- only being backdated 
to August  2014  the arrears caused by that change to repayment were only cleared in 2018  
so until that time his credit reference file would still have shown mortgage arrears even if the 
account had actually been held on an interest-only  basis since  August 2014.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied the account rework  - plus £500 compensation - 
as set out by Lloyds  is fair, and I make  no further  order or award of compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  only insofar as Im satisfied  the account rework carried out by Lloyds 
Bank PLC - plus a payment of £500  compensation - is fair and reasonable.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on the merits of it. Under the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my 
decision before  15 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1048124