K821x#15Complaint
Mr L complains  that TSB Bank plc closed  his basic account without giving him notice.
Background
In March 2019, Mr L contacted TSB after having  problems  with his debit card. TSB 
concluded that his card was damaged and sent him a replacement.  Mr L told TSB that hed 
experienced stress and inconvenience  because he couldnt use his card  TSB paid him 
£100 compensation because of this and refunded him £9 to cover the cost of his calls.
In April 2019, Mr L contacted TSB as he says he didnt receive the replacement card. Mr L 
also asked the bank to send copies  of call recordings. Mr L later complained and TSB 
replied confirming it had sent a replacement  card out in March and April. In its response,  
TSB told Mr L that it had decided to close his account with immediate  effect.  
Mr L asked this service to step in. He says TSB caused him stress  and inconvenience  
because he had a regular payment set up to pay a loan from this account  so he had to 
make other arrangements  to cover the payments. 
TSB says it closed Mr Ls account  in line with its terms and conditions because  Mr L had 
another bank  account with a different bank - so he had no need  for a basic account. TSB 
added that it had concerns around  the number of times Mr L had raised complaints, so it 
decided to close his account.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ls complaint as she didnt think  that any of the reasons TSB had 
given were enough to close his account  without any notice. The investigator  said TSB 
shouldve given Mr L two months notice and asked it to pay Mr L £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him.
The bank disagreed. It said Mr L wasnt eligible for a basic  account as the eligibility  criteria 
says that he cant  have an account elsewhere. The investigator didnt think  this met the 
terms and conditions for immediate closure either.  As TSB didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding this complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Account closure  without  notice
The terms and conditions  for Mr Ls account  say TSB can close an account  immediately 
(without notice) if Mr L:
acts fraudulently;
behaves improperly  (for example, in a threatening manner)
uses a service or money illegally or allows someone else to
seriously or regularly  breaks the terms and conditions  in some other way
Ref: DRN16745872TSB has set out a group of different reasons for closing Mr Ls account. To summarise,  this 
includes a lack of account usage,  Mr L having access to another account  with a different 
bank, Mr L requesting to borrow  money from the bank and that Mr L had complained to TSB 
about his account several  times.  But in my opinion, none of the reasons TSB has given 
meets the criteria set out in its terms and conditions.  
After the investigators  initial assessment, TSB said that Mr L didnt meet the eligibility  
criteria for this account, because he had access to another account with a different bank  
so it was right to close his account  immediately. But this reason doesnt  meet  the criteria in 
the TSB terms and conditions either.  So I dont think TSB acted fairly when it closed Mr Ls 
account without  any notice.
Under the terms and conditions, TSB can close an account for any other reason. The terms 
say that TSB would provide two months  notice  when this happens. I think the reasons  TSB 
has provided for closing  Mr Ls account fall under this category. So TSB shouldve given 
Mr L two months notice before closing his account.
Replacement debit card
Mr Ls initial complaint  was that he didnt receive the replacement card TSB says it sent to 
him in March 2019. TSB says it sent the card and has given us records  to show a 
replacement was sent at the time.  So I wont be asking TSB to do anything  differently 
because I dont think its acted unfairly  in regards  to this issue.  
When Mr L had problems  with using his card in March, he told TSB that hed experienced 
some trouble  and upset  as he had to walk home, even though hes been advised  not to 
following an operation. TSB paid him £100  compensation and refunded  him the costs of his 
calls by paying him a further £9. I think the amount TSB has awarded is fair so I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  more in relation to this point.
Putting things  right
TSB acted unfairly when  it closed Mr Ls account without any notice. Because of this, Mr L 
suffered an inconvenience as he had to make arrangements to pay his loan repayments 
some other way. To put things right,  TSB should pay Mr L £50 compensation.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. TSB Bank plc should  pay Mr L £50 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1674587