K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining about the way Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited  (Admiral) has 
handled a claim  he made  on his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  where his car was damaged so he contacted  Admiral to 
claim on his car insurance policy. Admiral  inspected Mr Ss car and declared  it a total loss as 
it said the cost of repair was more than the cars market value. So it said it would settle the 
claim by paying Mr S the cars market  value less his excess. And it thought  the cars market  
value was £1,410.
Mr S didnt agree with Admirals decision as he said he was still able to drive the car and he 
thinks Admiral  should  repair  the car. Admiral said that it was entitled to declare the car a total 
loss if it thinks its uneconomical to repair  it  which it did in this case. Mr S still didnt agree 
and asked this service to step in.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that Admiral was entitled  to decide how 
to settle the claim. And he thought  it was reasonable for it to choose to settle the claim by 
paying the market value.  
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said its wrong that an insurer could be allowed to 
choose to settle  it this way and he queried  what the point was of a fully comprehensive 
policy. He said he cant replace the car for the amount  Admiral  was offering him.
As Mr S didnt agree  with the adjudicator, the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint.
Mr S is unhappy that Admiral chose to write off his car. But the terms of his insurance policy,  
like all car insurance policies on the market,  give Admiral sole discretion as to how it wishes  
to settle a claim. And it says that Admiral will either  repair the car or pay him a sum of 
money. But the terms say Admiral wont pay more than the market value. And its not 
unreasonable that it does this, because the market value is designed to enable Mr S to 
replace the car with the same make and model  car with similar age and mileage.
Admiral said the cost of repair was more than the cars market  value, so it wasnt willing  to 
repair the car. And, while I appreciate  Mr S doesnt  think it should be allowed to make this 
decision, it was entitled to do so.
Mr S says that he cant replace the car with the amount that Admiral offered him. So Ive 
looked at whether Admiral have made a fair assessment of Mr Ss cars  market value. 
This services role isnt to work  out exactly what the value of an individual car is. We look at 
whether the insurer  has applied  the terms of a policy  correctly  and valued the car fairly. 
Ref: DRN18624972Admiral has valued  Mr Ss car at £1,410. Its said its valued this by reviewing  the main  
industry trade valuation  guides. Its standard practice for the industry to use trade  guides  to 
work out the estimated market value of a car. And its not unreasonable  that it does  so. The 
valuation the guides give are based  on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age 
and mileage for sale at the time of loss. The guides  also give an option to adjust the cars 
value to take into account the cars mileage.
Ive looked at the valuation of Mr Ss car and I think thats fair. Ive looked at the guides and 
they give a range of between £1,400 and £1,450. So I think  Admirals valuation of £1,410  for 
the car was fair. And Im satisfied that Mr S could have replaced the car with a similar model 
for £1,410.
I note Mr S hasnt actually made a claim on his insurance policy  because  he withdrew it 
when Admiral said it wasnt  willing to repair it. Hell need to contact Admiral  directly if he now 
wishes to make the claim.
Mr S has queried what the purpose of a fully comprehensive policy  is if the insurer wont  
repair the car. But the policy would pay him the market value of the car, less his excess if he 
chooses to claim. So he would get a benefit from it if he decides to make  a claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1862497