K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unreasonably failed to provide him 
with any service under his motor breakdown policy.
background
Mr L has breakdown cover with his motor policy. He had been  away  for some  time and on 
his return his car wouldnt start. So he called UKI and it sent out a recovery agent.
That agent said as Mr Ls car had no valid MOT,  nor any appointment made to get a MOT,  
he couldnt help him.
Mr L thought this was unfair, so he complained. UKI wouldnt change its stance, so he 
brought his complaint to us. The investigator  didnt think UKI had done anything  wrong.
Mr L disagreed so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and that of this service is to investigate whether UKI did anything  wrong  bearing  in 
mind the terms and conditions of its policy. I dont think it did here because in the breakdown 
cover, it explains that there are some  circumstances where  it cant help, one being a lack of 
a MOT and/or road tax.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ls MOT had expired. Theres also no dispute he didnt have an 
appointment for a MOT. He said he would  have organised one once the car had got running  
again, as he believed it simply had a flat battery, given he had been  away for some  time. 
However, given the contents of UKIs limitation of cover  there  was no onus on UKI to try and 
fix his car, so it would  start in these  circumstances. 
Mr L made the point  that his car was legally parked on his own property and not the public 
highway, but I dont consider that makes any difference given the terms of the breakdown  
cover.
Mr L also made the point  that the clause  merely  talks of car may requiring a MOT.  As the 
investigator explained not every car requires  a MOT, but Mr Ls did require one. So in those 
circumstances as his car did require a MOT, again  I dont  consider UKI did anything  wrong in 
relying on its terms and conditions to decide whether Mr Ls situation  was one where  it could 
assist. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Ref: DRN16599172Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1659917