K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Ms D are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited wont cover  their legal expenses 
under their home insurance  policy. 
Aviva uses  Arc Legal Assistance to handle claims. But, for ease, Ive only referred  to Aviva 
as its ultimately responsible for what happened. 
background
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont  repeat these 
extensively here. Instead, Ill summarise the key facts that I consider relevant to the 
complaint: 
A claim  is being made by LPA receivers  against Mr D, Ms D and their son for 
possession of a property, No 1. 
This is pursuant  to a third-party mortgage  between Ms D and a company, A. This 
company, A, funded a company,  L Ltd. Ms D was the sole director  and shareholder 
of L Ltd.  
The third-party mortgage required Ms D to pay all monies owed to A by Ms D or L Ltd 
when due, secured  by a charge over No 1. 
L Ltd went into administration  and couldnt  pay their debt to A, so LPA receivers are 
enforcing As security  over No 1. 
Mr D and Ms D made a claim to Aviva to use their legal expenses  insurance to 
defend the claim  against them for possession and possibly make a counter claim.  In 
the broadest of terms, their defence concerns the validity of the third-party mortgage. 
Aviva  turned down  the claim for cover because: 
oThe insurance covers certain agreements  entered into by the policyholders in 
their capacity  as a consumer. Aviva  submits that Ms D wasnt  acting  as a 
consumer. 
oTheres an exclusion for a dispute  with any financial services supplier arising 
from the sale or performance  of products and services offered or provided to 
you.
oIt also raised concerns over whether Mr D and Ms D had prior knowledge of 
the claim  as No 1 was added to the policy as a mid-term  adjustment.  But its 
not turned  down  the claim on this basis. 
Mr D and Ms D argue  that Ms D was acting  in her personal capacity. And that this 
isnt a dispute with a financial services  supplier about anything  offered or provided to 
her. 
On 24 November 2020, I sent a provisional  decision  which explained why I didnt 
think this was a dispute about an agreement that Ms D entered  into in her capacity as 
Ref: DRN17434482a consumer. So, I thought Avivas decision  not to provide cover was fair. I asked for 
responses from both sides by 24 December 2020.  
Aviva  didnt have anything further  to add. Mr D and Ms D responded. In summary, 
theyve said Avivas  claim handler admitted there was cover under  the policy. 
Theyve also sent in information about their concerns about  alleged wrongdoing at A, 
as well as L Ltd and As administrators. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with careful  
consideration of Mr D and Ms Ds submissions following my provisional  decision, I still dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Im not persuaded the claims handler  said there was cover. Instead, I think  this call note 
captures Mr D and Ms Ds explanation about why they think  theres cover. Indeed,  its clear  
from the note that the claims handler  hadnt  yet looked into everything and was still 
investigating the complaint. 
Im also not persuaded that the further information  provided about alleged wrongdoing at A, 
as well as L Ltd and As administrators changes my decision. Among other  things, it seems 
Mr D and Ms D are alleging that a loan between A and L Ltd (which they refer to as a 
fraudulent instrument)  wrongly included No 1 as security. But as I explained before, Im not 
deciding whether the security was valid. Ive simply looked at whether  the dispute  that led to 
Mr D and Ms Ds claim on the legal expenses insurance related to an agreement that Ms D 
entered into in her capacity as a consumer.  For the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think it does. 
I also wish to point out that the claim Ive considered here relates  to Mr D and Ms D seeking 
cover to defend  a claim for possession (and possibly make a counter claim). If they are now 
seeking cover for further claims against different  parties, thats  a separate matter  and one 
which Ive not considered  in this decision.  
So, I conclude that Aviva fairly decided there  wasnt cover here. For completeness,  I have 
explained my reasoning  again below: 
The policy terms explain that cover  is provided  for: 
A dispute regarding  an agreement for the 
 sale 
 purchase 
 hire of 
of any goods or services  entered into by you in your capacity as a consumer.
Under the terms, consumer is defined as a natural person acting for purposes 
which are outside his/her trade, business or profession.
Ref: DRN17434483The agreement thats at the heart of Mr D and Ms Ds dispute  for which they 
require legal  expenses cover  is the third-party  mortgage. Its this agreement thats 
led to the LPA receivers claim against them. 
I acknowledge Ms D entered into this agreement personally.  She didnt enter into it 
as the director  of L Ltd. But the definition of consumer doesnt depend on who 
entered into the contract  its the purpose  for which they are acting. 
Here,  the purpose of the agreement was to provide security for monies lent to L Ltd  
the company for which she is the sole director and shareholder.  It follows that Im not 
persuaded she was acting  for purposes outside  her trade,  business  or profession.  
Ive considered Mr D and Ms Ds points  about  the background to the third-party 
mortgage  and the sale agreement  entered into between  Ms D and L Ltd. But to be 
clear, this sale agreement  isnt why theyre needing to defend a claim. Its the third-
party mortgage. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im not satisfied Ms D entered 
into this agreement for a reason outside her trade, business or profession.  
In saying this, Ive thought about the reasons Mr D and Ms D submit about  why she 
entered into the third-party mortgage   that it was for speed  and ease, as shed been 
paid a deposit by L Ltd under the sale agreement. I accept there may be underlying 
reasons why she provided that security. But the straightforward point remains   the 
agreement provided security for a loan between A and L Ltd, which was the business 
she owned and directed. 
Ive also taken into account the concerns over the validity of the third-party mortgage 
 and whether  No 1 was secured to A and, even if it was, whether that was 
discharged. But its not for me to decide this  thats what  the legal proceedings are 
for. My role is simply to decide whether Aviva fairly decided  that there  wasnt  cover 
under this insurance policy. 
Mr D and Ms D have  mentioned a decision made by an ombudsman on a previous 
complaint made to our service  as a reason to support  their complaint. Each 
complaint is decided on its own facts and merits. Ive carefully looked at the 
circumstances and evidence in this complaint. 
Aviva  also highlighted an exclusion under the policy. But given that Im not 
persuaded theres an insured event  and, therefore,  grounds  for cover,  its not 
necessary for me also to consider  whether this exclusion applies. 
I recognise Mr D and Ms Ds strength of feeling over this matter  and I reassure  
them that Ive considered  their detailed submissions carefully. But I think Aviva has 
fairly decided theres no cover  here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision dated 24 November 
2020, I dont uphold Mr D and Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 March  2021.
Ref: DRN17434484Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1743448