K820x#14complaint
Miss E is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined her claim for theft under her 
home insurance policy.
background
In May 2015  Miss E made a claim to AXA for theft.  The circumstances surrounding the claim 
were very upsetting  for Miss E and she said as a result she wasnt  able to follow  up on the 
claim until October 2017.
Miss E provided a crime reference number. AXA said according to the police they received 
two calls about an incident in May 2015  but no address was given. It said Miss E reported  a 
violent burglary on 6 June 2015 but had failed to engage  with the police, so they couldnt 
progress their investigations. Miss E said that was because she was traumatised.
The claim was initially for over £85,000  but later increased. But Miss E had only insured her 
contents for £75,000.  AXA asked Miss E to complete a Value  at Risk (VAR) form so it could 
understand what the full value of her contents  was.
Miss E completed the VAR form. AXA didnt think  it was accurate or complete. It gave as an 
example the fact that Miss E had said her jewellery  was worth £6,500 but she had claimed 
for over £16,000 of jewellery. It said shed also claimed £2,000 for the hall, stairs and landing  
carpet but listed carpets in other rooms as worth £30 to £100.
After Miss E complained, AXA carried out further  investigations. It then declined  her claim. It 
said she hadnt provided proof of ownership of most  of the items  she was claiming  for or 
shown that thered been a robbery.
Miss E brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. She didnt 
think AXA had acted  unreasonably, taking into account the lack of evidence that Miss E had 
owned many  of the items she said were stolen and also because of various inconsistencies 
in what shed told AXA.
As Miss E didnt agree,  the matter  has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For any theft claim its for the policyholder in the first instance to show that they have a valid 
claim. In essence, they must show that an event covered  by the policy  occurred and that 
they suffered  a loss. For claims where an item is stolen, part of the requirement  is for the 
policyholder to prove they owned  the item in the first place.
Technically, if the policyholder cant show they have a valid claim then the insurer doesnt 
have to consider  the claim further.
I see many  complaints where  an insurer has declined  a claim because they feel the 
policyholder hasnt done enough to prove ownership of an item. I dont consider it unfair for 
Ref: DRN13293702insurers to expect to see some form of proof for the majority of items   particularly if they are 
high value.
In this case AXA has highlighted a number of concerns which  in my view Miss E hasnt been 
able to satisfactorily explain. There  were discrepancies  between what  she told AXA and the 
police report. The amount  of the claim was considerably more  than AXAs  loss adjuster 
expected after his initial visit to the property. Before she brought  her complaint to this 
service, Miss E wasnt able to provide any photos of the stolen contents. She gave varying  
information about the total value of her contents before the robbery and that didnt match up 
with the items claimed as stolen. Shes only been able to prove shes owned  a small 
proportion of the items shes claiming for. I can also understand why the information from 
the police  gave AXA concerns that none of the items  claimed for had actually been stolen.
My job isnt to decide whether Miss Es claim was valid or not (I cant  know that); its to 
decide whether  AXAs  decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable.  On the basis of 
the evidence available  to me, I think it was.
After our investigator issued her view, Miss E sent us photos which  appear  to show various 
items in her home prior to the robbery.  Ive considered them  carefully. Im not able to say 
whether theyre  sufficient  for AXA to change its decision on this claim. But in any event AXA 
hadnt seen these when it issued a final decision  in respect of her complaint. Theres  also 
the issue that I dont  think  Miss E has satisfactorily  shown that any of these items were 
stolen. 
I appreciate that Miss E has referred  both AXA and this service  to her doctor and vet in order  
that they could  confirm  what  she said about  the injuries she and her dog suffered as a result  
of the robbery. I dont  doubt that theyd  be able to confirm the injuries.  But that wouldnt 
necessarily show that the robbery  had taken place. I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA 
to place more  reliance on the fact that the police were unable to confirm that thered been a 
robbery.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss E whos undoubtedly been through a very difficult time. But 
unfortunately for her, I dont think shes shown that shes been treated unfairly or 
unreasonably by AXA.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1329370