K820x#14complaint
Mr B, represented by a third party Mr W, complains that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc 
(referred to in this decision as RBS, or the bank) closed his accounts  without  warning and 
offered him no support.
background
Mr B says that in 2011 his bank requested a meeting and at this meeting  he was told that all 
his business and personal accounts would be closed. He says he was given no warning of 
these actions and no reason or support was offered. Mr B says the actions of the bank 
meant his businesses closed and he was left in financial difficulties. He says this has 
affected his health.
Mr B says the closure  of his credit  card account  was a result of the closure of his business 
accounts and that he wasnt able to raise this complaint until the issues  regarding his 
business accounts had been  dealt with. 
RBS says that Mr B contacted it in July 2012 about his financial difficulties.  An income and 
expenditure assessment was carried out. It says a payment  plan was agreed but as this was 
less than the minimum payment required by his credit agreement  the account  was 
terminated and defaulted. It says the account  was defaulted in line with its processes. 
RBS says that Mr B raised a complaint about  his business accounts  in June 2017. Due to 
information he provided at that time regarding  his personal circumstances it says the 
outstanding debt on his credit card account was written  off as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She didnt think  that RBS had done anything 
wrong when it terminated Mr Bs account. She also thought it had acted sympathetically in its 
approach to Mr B.
Mr B didnt accept our adjudicators view and so the complaint has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised complaints regarding the closure of his business accounts as well as his 
credit card account. Having looked through his letters  I can the upset this has caused  and 
why he feels that the closure of his business  accounts led to the issues with his personal 
account. As has been explained to Mr B his complaints have been dealt with separately. My 
decision relates to his complaint regarding the closure of his credit  card account.
Mr Bs credit  card account was closed in 2012.  The bank has explained  that Mr B contacted 
it in July 2012 about his financial  difficulties. I have looked through the banks contact notes 
from this time and I can see that he was given some breathing space. Following this an 
income and expenditure assessment was carried out and a repayment offer of around £207 
was made.  
Ref: DRN16133042The repayment offer was agreed and a letter  was sent out regarding this. I have seen a copy 
of a template  letter for this and can see it explains that the acceptance of the repayment 
offer doesnt  alter the terms and conditions  of the card agreement.
The repayment amount was significantly lower  than the minimum repayment  amount. Given 
this, the bank has explained  that Mr Bs account was terminated  and defaulted.  I have 
looked at terms  and conditions relevant at the time and these set out that the agreement can 
be ended  if the terms are broken. Mr B wasnt making his minimum repayments  and so 
wasnt adhering  to the terms of his agreement. Based on the information available it didnt 
appear that Mr B would be able to return to his contractual repayments and so I dont find it 
unreasonable that further steps  were taken.
On 6 September, Mr B was sent letters about him not making his payment in accordance 
with his agreement  and that a cancellation letter would be sent. The cancellation letter was 
also sent on 6 September  and explained  that the account had been terminated and that a 
default notice  had been served.
I understand how upsetting this must have been for Mr B but as he wasnt able to maintain 
his contractual  payments I think the actions taken by RBS were reasonable. By defaulting 
his account, interest  would no longer  be charged  preventing his debt form increasing  further.
Based on what I have seen it appears RBS undertook its usual process in regard to Mr Bs 
account and I cant see any evidence that he was treated unfairly.
In 2017, when Mr B raised his complaint regarding his business  accounts he explained his 
personal circumstances. At this time,  RBS decided it would write off Mr Bs credit card debt 
as a gesture of goodwill.  Therefore I understand that there is nothing further owing on this 
account. Given Mr Bs situation I find that this was fair and showed that the bank was acting 
sympathetically towards Mr B.
I cannot imagine the stress and upset that Mr B has experienced over the past years.  While I 
know this isnt the outcome he wants,  I have  to make a decision based  on what  I consider 
fair and reasonable to all parties.  In this case,  based on the evidence  I have seen,  I do not 
find that I can say RBS has treated Mr B unfairly  in regard to his credit card account and so I 
do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1613304