K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs F says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2000.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs F owed on her store  card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs F couldnt work  because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs F that the policy was optional  and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs F says she wasnt aware that she had PPI on her 
account.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  to apply for Account  Cover  the name  used by FICL for PPI. In 
this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Mrs F has signed the section to confirm she wanted the cover.  If Mrs F didnt want  to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Mrs F has signed  the overall 
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
The charge  for the PPI would have  shown as a separate entry  on her store card statements. 
If Mrs F didnt know what this charge  was for or hadnt agreed to take it out, I think she 
would have questioned this with FICL  sooner than she did.
So based  on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that FICL made Mrs F aware that the 
policy was optional and that she chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt 
want it.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs F and, as I havent  seen  anything  to 
make me think otherwise, I think thats  likely to be right. So it didnt have to check if the 
Ref: DRN19371922policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave Mrs F clear enough 
information about the policy to enable  her to decide  for herself if she should  take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs F 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  she was 
already aware.  And I havent  seen anything to suggest that the policy wasnt  affordable.
Mrs F has told us she would have received at least three months  sick pay from her employer 
if she was too ill to work. But this policy would have paid out until Mrs F was able to return  to 
work or until the outstanding balance  was repaid  whichever came first. It would also have 
provided the same benefit if she was to lose her job. So I think this policy  could have been 
useful if something was to have  gone wrong.  
Ive noted that Mrs F has said that her family would have helped her to make her repayments 
if needed. While I appreciate her family would have wanted to help, support from others cant  
always be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to 
provide such financial  assistance. So this point  doesnt alter my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1937192