K820x#14Complaint
Mr M doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which  he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
Background
Mr M complained to RBS in 2017  that he had been mis-sold PPI on his credit  card.  
RBS investigated  and upheld Mr Ms complaint. RBS wrote  to Mr M offering  compensation. 
Mr M accepted RBS offer.
However, in 2003,  Mr M had granted a trust deed  which became a protected trust
deed  for his creditors.
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which
is administered by a trustee.
Mr M was subsequently discharged from his trust deed in 2006.
RBS used the compensation to reduce outstanding monies that it says Mr M hadnt fully 
repaid on the credit  card - despite Mr M being discharged  from his protected trust deed.
Mr M, unhappy he hadnt received the compensation, brought  his complaint to our service.  
Mr M says it is unfair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which  he 
has been discharged. Mr M says the compensation should be paid directly to him.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought RBS had acted fairly in using the
compensation to reduce the borrowing that was left unpaid despite Mr M being discharged 
from his trust deed.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view.  As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services  powers come from.
We were created by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA).  This Act also
created whats now called the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).
Section 225 of FSMA explains  that were here to resolve disputes quickly  and with minimum
formality. And section  228 says a complaint  is to be determined  by reference to what is, in
the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Alongside FSMA, the FCA sets out, in its handbook, some rules  for us to follow. These rules
are known as the DISP  rules  and they can be found online.
DISP 3.6.1 R repeats  section 228 of FSMA. DISP 3.6.4 R adds that, when considering what
is fair and reasonable, an ombudsman will take into account:
Ref: DRN19612652(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice;  and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
It has already been agreed that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So I wont be looking at how the 
PPI came to be sold as that is no longer  in dispute.  And Mr M hasnt  raised any concerns 
about the amount of compensation RBS has offered.  Although from looking at what  RBS has 
offered it includes everything  I would  expect to see.
All that is left for me to decide  is whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use the PPI
compensation to reduce the outstanding  amount that Mr M says was written  off after he was 
discharged from his protected trust deed.
Mr M says as he was discharged from his protected trust deed the compensation should be 
paid directly to him.
RBS says it has the right to offset  the compensation against monies Mr M hasnt  fully repaid.
Is it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce an outstanding amount owed 
despite Mr M being discharged from his protected trust deed?
There have been  some court cases about  to whom PPI compensation should  be paid when
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. Ill summarise the relevant 
court cases.
In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc [2017]  SAC
(Civ) 1. And this is the case  that is more relevant to Mr Ms situation.
In Donnelly , the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. But Im not bound  to follow  it. And if
I decide to depart from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But, and 
importantly, within my role I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ms complaint  as required of me through  
FSMA Section.228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Ref: DRN19612653Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation  to reduce the monies  Mr M 
borrowed and didnt  fully repay. Ill explain why.
RBS has provided evidence to show that at the time the credit card debt was written off, the 
account had an outstanding balance  of around £11,000. This is money  that Mr M wont  now 
ever have to repay to RBS.
The fact that Mr M entered into a protected trust deed and was discharged  from his debt 
when his trust deed ended doesnt,  in my opinion, make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to pay the PPI compensation  to Mr M, when Mr M 
doesnt now have  to pay back the many  thousands of pounds  he borrowed.
So it follows  that I think its fair for RBS to the PPI compensation  to reduce the borrowing 
that was left unpaid and that Mr M wont now ever have to repay.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to 
use Mr Ms PPI compensation  to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid  when Mr Ms trust 
deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1961265