K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from June 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. I invited both RBS and Mr G to provide any further  submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached  a final decision. No responses were  submitted.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As none of the parties has provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  The Royal Bank  of Scotland 
Plc does  not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  It has already done  this by 
offsetting it against Mr Gs credit card debt,  so I dont award any further compensation. And 
its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to offset that amount from Mr Gs outstanding 
credit card balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16778712COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold  him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G took out the PPI over the phone when  he rang to activate  the credit card in March 2008.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. RBS disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold Mr Gs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr G says he cant remember the fine details of the phone call but he says he felt that he had to take 
out the insurance to avoid the card activation being declined.
Ive listened to the phone call and right at the start the adviser says it will just take a couple  of minutes  
to activate the card.  In the meantime she discusses  the PPI with Mr G. She describes it as optional 
and runs through the costs and the main benefits and exclusions. She also explains  that the policy 
can be cancelled  at any time. She asks Mr G if he would  be happy to have the protection  on his 
account and he replies Thats fine, yes. The adviser then goes on to offer Mr G another  type of 
insurance, which he declines  by saying: Ill pass on that one thank you.
From the available  evidence, I think its clear that Mr G knew that he didnt have to take the PPI in 
order to get the credit card activated, and he felt comfortable in turning down the other insurance  that 
was offered to him.
RBS didnt  advise Mr G to buy the policy, so it didnt  need to ensure that it met his needs. But it did 
need to provide him with enough information for him to make an informed choice about  whether  or not 
the policy  was right for him.
Our adjudicator thought that, because of Mr Gs particular circumstances, he wouldnt have taken out 
the policy  if the costs  and benefits  had been made clearer. This is where my view differs.
Mr G has said his employer would have given  him at least six months sick pay. But the policy would  
have paid out in addition to this and potentially  for longer than Mr G would have received full pay for. 
Mr G has said that family would have helped  him out financially, but other people  cant  always be 
relied upon  as their circumstances can change.
Mr G has also told us that he had savings equivalent to at least  six months pay, although he didnt 
provide any evidence of this. Weve  asked  him for more details of these savings but he hasnt 
responded to that request.
Mr G had an outstanding balance of £1,500 within a month of taking out the card and hed used the 
card to make a number of cash withdrawals. And it wasnt long before he went  over his credit card 
limit. Its hard to imagine why someone would  use their credit card in this way if they had substantial  
savings. On balance, Im not persuaded that Mr G had the savings that he has stated.
Ref: DRN16778713From the evidence  Ive seen, I think that Mr G had a need for the policy and could have benefitted 
from it at what  would  have been a difficult time. 
Its possible that RBS could have provided more information about  the policy, particularly about the 
things that it didnt cover.  But Mr G wasnt affected  by any of those  things.  Therefore, as Mr G clearly 
had an interest in the policy  and decided  to take it out, I dont  think that further information would have 
caused him to change  his mind.
This means  that RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. But RBS has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
When the policy was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr G about that. Because RBS didnt tell 
Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr G had also complained  that RBS, instead of making  payment to him, had paid this commission 
offer (which amounted to £268.55) to his credit card account to reduce his arrears. RBS said that its 
process of using the compensation to reduce the debt had been correctly  followed.  However it 
accepted that there had been delays  in dealing with this issue and awarded Mr G £50 for distress  and 
inconvenience.
This way of reducing a balance is called offsetting.  For offsetting to apply, I must  be satisfied that 
there is a close connection between the compensation and the outstanding debt. I must also consider 
whether it would be fair for RBS to set-off in this way. Both tests must be satisfied  for me to find that 
RBS has an equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation  against Mr Gs outstanding debt related  to 
his credit card account.  
The PPI sold to Mr G was directly  connected  to his credit card account. Using the right of set-off I 
have outlined  above, I am satisfied the compensation for the excess  commission  on the PPI and the 
credit card debt are closely connected. They are both related to the same  account Mr G had with 
RBS. 
So in principle RBS may have a right to reduce  the debt Mr G still owes for his credit card debt by the 
amount of compensation which is a debt RBS owes to him.
I think  its important to say that although Mr G was charged for PPI, as there  is an outstanding 
balance in respect  of his credit card, he didnt  actually pay for those  premiums. So if RBS paid the 
compensation directly  to Mr G hed be getting compensation for undisclosed commission on 
premiums that he hadnt actually paid. So it is fair that the compensation  is used to reduce what is 
owed.
In this situation,  both Mr G and RBS owe each other some money. I think  it is fair for RBS to use the 
money it owes Mr G to reduce what he owes it. So I dont  require RBS to take any further action.
Mr G has used a claims management company (CMC) to represent him in making this complaint,  but 
hes said that they are now chasing him for their fee, which was why he needed  the commission 
payment to be made to him. If Mr G is unhappy  with the CMC, he can complain  to them in the first 
instance. If he is not satisfied  with their response then he can then bring his complaint to this service if 
he wishes.
Ref: DRN16778714my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc does  not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share  
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  It has already done this by offsetting it against Mr 
Gs credit card debt,  so I dont award any further compensation. And its fair for The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to offset that amount from Mr Gs outstanding credit card balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr G to accept  or reject my 
decision before 17 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1677871