K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (First  Direct) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with their mortgage. They want matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs C had a repayment  mortgage with First Direct, taken out in 2016. It was in three 
parts and two parts of the mortgage  each had a mortgage product due to last two years, 
while the third had a product in place  due to last three years.  In 2018,  when the two year 
products ended, Mr and Mrs C wanted to take out a new product, and applied for a product 
designed for an offset mortgage (which is different to a repayment mortgage). The 
application failed  as First Direct said that the product was only available  if the whole 
mortgage (all three parts)  moved from repayment  to offset as it didnt offer mixed mortgages.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to First Direct  as they said they shouldve  been told about  this 
policy in 2016.  It said it didnt offer mixed mortgages, and in 2016 it only offered repayment 
or interest  only mortgages.  First Direct said that it gave  suitable advice to Mr and Mrs C in 
2016 based on their circumstances  at that time. But as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to 
backdate the interest on the relevant part of the mortgage to 9 November 2018 for whatever 
product Mr and Mrs C took out, but this offer was only open for a limited period. It also 
offered £100.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that when the mortgage was 
taken out in 2016, First Directs role was to assess Mr and Mrs Cs needs and wants  at the 
time of application. He noted that in 2016,  Mr and Mrs Cs plan was to repay the part of the 
mortgage on the two year product when  it ended,  so the change of plan wasnt something 
First Direct  couldve advised on. The adjudicator also said that it was common  for lenders 
not to publish  all their lending policies and the offer from First Direct was fair and reasonable. 
He noted that this service wouldnt interfere with how a business  operated.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed.  They said First Direct in 2016 shouldve  disclosed the policy to 
cover the possible future situation that the plan to repay  part of the mortgage in 2018 didnt 
happen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders can use their commercial judgement about on what  basis its willing to lend to 
customers; this service wouldnt interfere with that. So its fair and reasonable for First Direct 
to decide it doesnt want to offer mixed  mortgages, provided it applies that policy  fairly  and 
reasonably to all customers. And lending policies are often commercially sensitive and arent 
published in full; its the role of the adviser  at the lender to know the policies and to advise if 
theyre relevant.
In 2016, First Directs policy  of not permitting  mixed mortgages wasnt  relevant to 
Mr and Mrs Cs position. They didnt intend to need such a mortgage, either in 2016 or in the 
future. And First Direct says that it didnt even offer offset mortgages then. 
Ref: DRN19933502In 2016, Mr and Mrs Cs plan was to repay part of their mortgage  in two years  time, which  
was why it was suitable  for them to be recommended  three  mortgage  products to cover the 
whole mortgage  balance; two products for a two year period to cover the part to be repaid in 
the near future,  and one for five years to cover  the rest of the mortgage. Thats all that an 
adviser is required to do  to recommend a mortgage and product that meets  the needs and 
wants of the customer  at the time of application  and based on the information known at the 
time. Lenders cant predict  changes of circumstances.  I cant say that the mortgage was mis-
sold in 2016 or that First Direct is at fault in applying its lending policies in 2018.
That said,  I note First Direct has made  an offer to Mrs and Mrs C. As I havent found First 
Direct to be at fault, I cant award  any redress. I note First Direct set a deadline in respect of 
its offer in respect of interest,  which has passed, but understand the offer of £100  remains 
available for acceptance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and its up to Mr and Mrs C whether 
they wish to accept  the £100 offer from HSBC UK Bank Plc. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1993350