K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy about the way his medical insurance policy was sold to him by Health-on-
line Company UK Limited (HOL). Hes also unhappy about aspects of the service  he 
received.
background 
HOL sold Mr B a medical insurance policy in February 2012. Mr B ended up buying the core 
out-patient policy  with certain add-ons. Initially hed taken out the enhanced  out-patient  
policy online  but changed his mind after a number of calls with HOLs representative. He 
ultimately cancelled  the enhanced policy within the stipulated period of time.
Mr B has renewed his policy every year and at some  point he opted to change core out-
patient to full outpatient cover. 
Mr B says he wasnt given clear information  about what the policy covered him for when the 
policy was first sold to him. Hes also unhappy that when he called HOL to discuss the 
impending renewal in early February 2018, HOLs representative tried to sell him a policy  
with lesser coverage. 
He says that he was led to believe  by HOL that the policy he had covered  him for:
podiatry and chiropody treatment under the therapies section of the policy but it 
wasnt; and
the therapies section  operated as a cashback  policy and worked in a similar way to 
the dentistry and optician add-on to the extent that he didnt need to get a referral; he 
could simply undergo treatment and then claim back the cost under the policy.  But it 
didnt operate  in that way.
Mr B is also unhappy:
 that he wasnt told that he would have to pay for any consultant  appointments after 
the first two in any policy  year;  and
with the customer  service he received from HOL  particularly the way in which  some  
of HOLs representatives spoke to him and delays in responding to emails.
HOL accepts, on occasions, it didnt respond to Mr B as quickly as it shouldve. It also 
accepts its representatives couldve been more empathetic during certain calls. HOL has 
apologised for this. But it doesnt  think its done anything else wrong.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Prior to our investigator issuing  his opinion on Mr Bs 
complaint, HOL offered Mr B £100  as compensation for the poor customer  he received to go 
with the apology it had already issued him. And, after investigation, our investigator 
concluded that HOL should pay Mr B an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience  it 
caused him as a result of the unsatisfactory customer  service he received.  But our 
investigator didnt  think  Mr B had been  given unclear or misleading information. So didnt 
uphold any other  aspect of his complaint.  
Ref: DRN15198152HOL accepted what our investigators outcome. Mr B disagrees and has raised  further points 
in reply. His complaint  has now been referred to me to look at everything afresh and to make 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im satisfied HOL should  
pay Mr B the total sum of £200 for the trouble and upset he experienced as a result of the 
poor customer service he received. However, I dont  agree that the policy was mis-sold to 
him in anyway. 
I suspect Mr B will be unhappy with my decision but hopefully, hell understand my 
reasoning. Before I set this out I just want to assure Mr B that although I havent addressed 
each point hes made, Ive taken  on board all of his comments. And to clarify I havent 
considered whether any claims Mr B made on his policy have been unfairly declined. Thats 
because any complaints in this respect  would be against the underwriter and Mr B would 
need to complain to the underwriter in the first instance. 
the sale in 2012:
Having listened  to the various calls Mr B had with HOLs  representative  in February  2012  I 
dont agree that he was given unclear or misleading information about  the number of 
consultation appointments he would  be covered  for in each policy year.
Mr B says those conversations took place with HOL in 2011but I dont think they did. He 
hasnt given us any evidence of this and Ive listened to the first call he had with HOLs  
representative on 1 February 2012.  Towards the start of that call Mr B says he thought hed 
bought the insurance, online, the night before. And cover  with his existing insurance provider 
 who isnt associated  with HOL  was ending that day. From what was discussed over two 
conversations that day, Im satisfied that was the first contact Mr B had with one of HOLs 
representatives.
During the calls on 1 February and subsequent calls up to and including 13 February 2012, 
Mr B was given information  about  three  different types of policy that HOL offered at the time: 
enhanced out-patient cover, core out-patient cover and full out-patient  cover. 
Mr B had initially selected enhanced out-patient cover  online. HOLs representative 
explained that outpatient cover under that cover was limited to £1,000  per policy  year. 
Included in that sum was the cost of consultant appointments and diagnostic tests.  Mr B was 
informed that the core outpatient cover, which was cheaper, covered him for two consultant 
appointments per policy year but the annual cost of diagnostic tests  wasnt  capped. And 
during the end of the second call on 1 February 2012, Mr B asks that if he chose the core 
out-patient cover, hed have to pay for third consultation and HOLs representative confirmed 
this was the case.
So, Im satisfied that Mr B was given clear, fair and not misleading information  about the 
policy he ended up buying in 2012 only covering the costs  of two consultant appointments in 
any one year. And that the cost of any subsequent consultations that he attended  in a policy 
year would have  to be met by him.
Ref: DRN15198153Im also satisfied that nothing was said to Mr B that wouldve led him to reasonably believe 
that podiatry and chiropody treatment was included with the policy. Although he was told that 
the policy would cover therapies, he wasnt expressly told that it covers podiatry and 
chiropody. The examples  he was given  were physiotherapy, osteopathy and cover to see a 
chiropractor. As this was a non-advised sale HOL had to inform  Mr B of the main terms of 
the policy in a clear, fair and not misleading  way. And I wouldnt have expected the 
representative to go through each and every  therapy  thats included. Mr B was also sent the 
terms of the policy  after the call and the policy sets out the therapies which are covered, and 
those which  arent. Chiropody  and podiatry  arent covered under the standard therapies  
section of the policy  chiropody is only covered as an extra  care add-on  which  Mr B didnt 
buy.
Further, Mr B was given information about how the dental and optical  cashback  add-on 
worked, and the costs  covered each  year. But Im satisfied from listening to the calls that he 
wasnt told anything that couldve led him to reasonably believe that the cash  back  element  
of the policy  applied to therapies  too. 
Although Mr B wasnt told during the calls that if he required  osteopathy  treatment he would 
need to obtain a referral by his GP, that sort of term isnt unusual  so I wouldnt have 
necessarily expected HOLs representative  to advise him of this during the call. And the 
requirements were set out the policy terms in February 2012. 
the renewal in 2018:
Having considered the call in early  February 2018 that Mr B had with one of HOLs  
representatives, Im also satisfied that nothing in that call couldve reasonably led him to 
believe that:
chiropody or podiatry was covered under the therapies section of the policy; or
the therapies sections  operated in the same or similar way to the dental  and optical 
cash- back  add-on.
Nor do I think the representative  was trying to sell him lesser medical coverage.  
Mr B was keen to explore ways to bring his insurance premium down and the representative 
suggested different  ways  in which he could do this including things like increasing his yearly  
excess, paying the premium up-front rather than monthly and removing add-ons such as the 
one for dentistry  and dental. It was in this context that she also said he currently had full out-
patient cover  with no annual limit but the standard out-patient cover  that HOL offered at that 
time could  cover him for up to three  consultations and there wasnt an annual cap on 
diagnostic tests. Mr B explained  that he didnt want to reduce the out-patient cover but I dont 
think HOL did anything  wrong by telling Mr B that this was an option available  to him to 
reduce the cost of his premium. 
customer service:
Ref: DRN15198154HOL accepts the service  Mr B received when talking to its representatives in mid-February  
2018 couldve been better  in particular that they couldve been  more empathetic during 
that call. It also accepts it shouldve responded more quickly  to him on occasions. I agree 
with our investigator that the £100  initially offered  to Mr B to compensate  him doesnt reflect  
the trouble and upset he went through. Im satisfied £200 is a fairer  amount.
my final decision
Health-on-line Company  UK Limited  should pay Mr B a total amount of £200 by way of 
trouble and upset.  If the £100 its offered to pay has already  been  paid then it needs  to pay 
Mr B an additional £100.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1519815