K821x#15Complaint
Mr P says Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  (trading as CashPlus) irresponsibly lent to 
him.
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 30 September 2019. A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
the complaint  should be partly upheld. I said Id consider anything  else anyone  wanted to 
send me  so long as I received it by 14 October  2019.
Mr P said he was happy with the provisional decision and couldnt provide further evidence 
due to all the time that had passed. CashPlus  didnt  respond to the provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before  that CashPlus should not have lent 
loans 7 and 8, and should not have provided  credit from 1 May 2013  onwards.
Putting things  right  what  CashPlus needs  to do
refund  all the interest, charges  and fees Mr P paid on loans  7 and 8, and on all the 
borrowing from the point  of loan 9 onwards, i.e. from 1 May 2013  (including the credit 
card account);
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest,  charges and fees from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 7 and 8 from Mr Ps credit  file;
the amount  of borrowing  taken from loan 9 onwards  means any information recorded 
about it is adverse.  So all entries  about loan 9 onwards should  be removed from 
Mr Ps credit file, including the credit card history  from that point onwards.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses  to take off tax from this interest. CashPlus 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN15556722My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Mr Ps 
complaint about  Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as CashPlus).
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  (trading as CashPlus)  should put things  right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15556723COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr P says Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited (trading  as CashPlus) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about  76 high-cost short-term  loans  that CashPlus provided to Mr P between 
September 2012 and April 2016.  The complaint also includes the provision  of a high-cost credit card 
between February 2013 and February 2018. The start of Mr Ps lending history is as follows:
In June 2013,  Mr P then borrowed a further 12 loans  totalling  £558.91, and in July 2013 he took out 
another 8 loans, totalling £409.01.  Mr P continued to borrow from CashPlus for three more years, with 
no significantly large gaps between loans and many loans  overlapping  each other.  He took out high-
cost credit with them  77 times in total.  
Our adjudicator partly  upheld Mr Ps complaint, saying  the loans  from July 2013 onwards shouldnt 
have been given, and that CashPlus shouldnt  have let Mr P use the credit card account  from 
February 2015 onwards.  CashPlus disagreed, saying they do rigorous checks using  credit file data, 
and that Mr P had never  missed payments  or told them he was in financial difficulty. So the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending  including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice   on our website.
CashPlus needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that they should have carried out proportionate  checks  to make sure Mr P could repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that CashPlus  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:Loan Date  opened Date  closedAmount
borrowedHighest  
contractual  
repaymentNotes
1 25/09/2012 01/10/2012 £42.49 £45.49
2 27/09/2012 29/09/2012 £5.99 £6.99
3 21/02/2013 12/02/2018 £250.00 FlexibleFlexible credit card account 
with £250 initial limit
4 15/03/2013 18/03/2013 £50.00 £52.00
5 23/03/2013 28/03/2013 £50.00 £54.00
6 02/04/2013 24/04/2013 £142.00 £154.00For his DMP direct debit.  This 
loan was not provided due to 
an error by CashPlus
7 06/04/2013 15/04/2013 £100.00 £118.00
8 16/04/2013 30/04/2013 £100.00 £128.00
9 01/05/2013 26/05/2013 £142.00 £154.00 For his DMP direct  debit
10 25/05/2013 31/05/2013 £100.00 £112.00
Ref: DRN15556724the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that CashPlus was required to establish  whether  
Mr P could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending,  and later, the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC)  define sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in particular  
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I havent seen enough to make me think  that loans 1 to 5 were  lent 
irresponsibly. For example, these loans and their repayments were  generally relatively small, and they 
were opened early  on in the lending relationship.  The limited credit file results CashPlus have 
provided from loan 4 dont show any defaults.
Mr P was in a debt management plan at the time and if CashPlus had looked  at his current account 
they couldve seen regular payments to a national debt charity. The outstanding debts Im aware  of 
are payday  loans from two lenders from 2012, but Mr P hasnt provided us with a copy  of his credit file 
or bank statements to show his full situation. So while there  may have been some indications that 
CashPlus shouldnt  have lent to Mr P during  this time, given how early on this was Ive given them  the 
benefit of the doubt. There doesnt appear to have been enough information that CashPlus should 
have been aware of that shouldve caused them  to decline these loans.
However, when Mr P requested loan 6, the reason he gave  was to cover the direct debit to his debt 
management plan. In other  words, Mr Ps financial situation  had got so bad that he was taking out 
increasing high-cost debt just to keep up with the payments to his historic  arrears on other debts.  And 
CashPlus were aware of this, because he was doing it through them.  They even discussed  the direct 
debit with him when he complained that loan 6 didnt arrive. And he was paying the debt management  
plan through his current  account with CashPlus.
Ref: DRN15556725Due to CashPlus administrative error, loan 6 didnt go through. But I dont think  CashPlus shouldve 
lent loans 7 and 8 given  that Mr P was having problems  managing  his existing debt commitments and 
it was likely that he wouldnt be able to repay further debt in a sustainable manner. On top of the 
issues that loan 6 brought up, Mr Ps repayments for loans 4 and 5 had taken his current  account  with 
CashPlus into a negative balance. Then on both occasions, he asked to borrow  again just a few days  
later, for the same  amount  or higher.  Further,  I think a proportionate check  at this point wouldve  
confirmed that Mr P was in a debt management plan and that he had ongoing arrears with other 
short-term lenders.
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of CashPluss lending history with Mr P, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point at which CashPlus should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so CashPlus should have realised that they shouldnt have 
provided any further  lending. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point  was reached by loan 9. I say 
this because:
At this point, CashPlus  should have realised Mr P was not managing  to repay  his loans  
sustainably. Mr P had taken  out high-cost short-term products  nine times in just six months.  
And Mr P was borrowing regularly and consistently from CashPlus, being provided  with a new 
loan usually within days of settling the previous one, or even before  the previous one was 
settled. So CashPlus  should have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr P was having  to 
borrow further  to cover  the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances,  and 
that Mr Ps indebtedness was continuing unsustainably.
Loan  9 was the second  time that Mr P had requested a high-cost  loan to cover his direct debit 
to the debt management plan, and for the second  month in a row. This should have indicated  
to CashPlus that his debt situation  had become unsustainable.
Mr Ps first loan was for £42.49 and loan 9 was for £142.00, six months later.  At this point 
CashPlus shouldve  known Mr P was unlikely to be borrowing to meet a temporary  shortfall in 
his income, but instead  to meet an ongoing  need. He wasnt making any real inroads  into the 
amount he owed CashPlus. Indeed, by then,  Mr P had paid proportionally large  amounts of 
interest and fees to CashPlus to effectively  service  a debt to them over an extended period.
By the time Mr P requested loan 9, he had already run his high-cost  credit card account over 
its limit in both the opening two months of use. Ive referred to this account  as loan 3 in the 
table above for convenience. I should note here that this account had a representative  APR of 
99%, but it used a flat fee structure  and that APR was based on a maximum balance. On a 
lower balance,  the effective  APR would  be far higher. I consider  this to be a high-cost product. 
And the revolving  nature  of the credit  meant  Mr P could borrow repeatedly and at larger  
amounts than his loans were for. So once CashPlus were  aware that Mr Ps debt situation 
was unsustainable and that they shouldnt be providing  further lending,  it follows  that I also 
think they should  not have provided him with this credit facility  anymore.
I think  that Mr P lost out because  CashPlus  continued to provide  credit from 1 May 2013 onwards 
because:
the lending had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number of loans  and the length  of time over which Mr P borrowed  was likely to have  
had negative implications  on his ability to access mainstream credit. So it kept him in the 
market for these  high-cost  products.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans  7 and 8, and also all lending from 1 May 2013 onwards,  
and CashPlus should put things right.
Ref: DRN15556726Putting things right   what I think CashPlus needs to do
refund all the interest, charges and fees Mr P paid on loans 7 and 8, and on all the borrowing 
from the point of loan 9 onwards, i.e. from 1 May 2013 (including  the credit card account);
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, charges  and fees from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  7 and 8 from Mr Ps credit file;
the amount  of borrowing taken from loan 9 onwards means any information recorded about it 
is adverse. So all entries about  loan 9 onwards should be removed from Mr Ps credit file, 
including the credit  card history from that point  onwards.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses  to take off tax from this interest. CashPlus  must give 
Mr P a certificate showing  how much tax theyve  taken off if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to partially uphold Mr Ps complaint,  and to direct Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited (trading as CashPlus) to put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  CashPlus and Mr P send me any more information or comments to look at by 14 
October 2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1555672