K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that MBNA Ltd (MBNA) have breached  an agreement they made with him 
that he could make a reduced settlement of his credit card debt to them.
background
I wont repeat the investigators entire  background summary because  it covers the issues  
and I want to avoid  repetition. So, if Ive not mentioned something  its not because  Ive 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues.   
In August  2018  MBNA reviewed Mr Ns financial circumstances after he had been  made  
redundant and was experiencing financial  hardship.  It agreed  to put a hold on his account 
until February 2019. MBNA also told Mr N that when the hold was removed he could make  
an offer of a lesser  amount than was owed in order to clear the remaining balance in full and 
final settlement.
In January 2019 Mr N offered MBNA £3,000 but this wasnt accepted.  He was told that 
MBNA had become a subsidiary of Lloyds and as such they were no longer accepting offers 
to settle balances. However, Mr N pointed out that he had received a letter  in January  2019 
from MBNA  actually advising him to contact MBNA to discuss a financial settlement for a 
reduced amount.
So Mr N feels  MBNA have  acted  unfairly  and would like them to accept his offer of £3,000 
and to remove any negative markers from his credit file because of this debt.
Mr N was unhappy with MBNAs response  and so an investigator  from this service looked  
into the complaint  but didnt think MBNA had acted unfairly. As Mr N didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. What I need to decide is whether  MBNA 
acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr N. My aim is to ensure that a fair and 
reasonable outcome has been achieved,  which  means  taking into account both MBNAs 
view and that of Mr N. I do not perform the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have 
the power to make  rules for financial businesses, punish them, or direct that they change 
their processes. That falls under the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority. Equally we are 
not a court  service. 
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me and looking at the available 
evidence, I think we have  an unfortunate situation here. 
Mr N was told he could get back in touch with MBNA in February 2019 to make a reduced  
settlement offer.  That was correct at that time. 
It is also correct  that MBNA  wrote  to Mr N in January 2019 saying that Mr N could contact 
them to discuss a financial settlement for a reduced  amount. 
Ref: DRN13082762But I dont think that letter or indeed anything  said in the conversation  in August 2018 can be 
construed as Mr N and MBNA having reached an agreement that MBNA would definitely 
accept a reduced sum in settlement of the outstanding balance.  I think that all that can be 
said is that MBNA would  be open to a conversation in February 2019 about possibly 
accepting a reduced sum. 
Logically if Mr N had offered only £1 then it would follow that MBNA would be likely to reject 
his offer.  Equally if he offered only £1 less than the balance outstanding they probably would 
have accepted it. The point is that it would be up to MBNA to decide  whether they wished  to 
accept his offer at the time he made  it because  there had been  no prior binding  agreement 
reached between  them.
Our investigator did look at the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account and came to the 
conclusion that they had not been breached by MBNA not accepting his offer. Ive also 
checked them I can see that that is correct   MBNA were  free to decide  whether to accept 
Mr Ns offer or reject  it.
Turning to the default on Mr Ns credit  file, it is unfortunate that that has been done,  but 
having said that it is perfectly correct. A persons  credit file is supposed  to show a persons 
actual credit history, and MBNA are required to make a report when one of their customers  
defaults. This is what MBNA have done  and I cant say they have acted unfairly  in doing so.
I know Mr N will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  
as the investigator  and for the same reasons. MBNA have not adversely affected  Mr N by 
not accepting  his offer as it was always open  to them to reject it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1308276