K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he was pressured  into purchasing two unnecessary  Business  Cover 
Plans by ReAssure Limited  and was forced to travel too far for a related medical 
examination.
  
background
Both policies  were taken  out to cover  a business overdraft. The first was taken in 1999 and 
provided £35,000 of cover  over an eight-year term. The second  policy  replaced the first 
policy in 2001  to match an increase in the overdraft  facility - £80,000 over 10 years, in line 
with Mr Ds proposed retirement  age.
ReAssure didnt uphold  Mr Ds complaint. It noted that the first policy had been a condition  of 
the overdraft facility. And while  that was no longer the case with the second  policy,  it was 
nevertheless a suitable recommendation, providing  useful protection  for Mr Ds business in 
the event of his death. 
The complaint was referred  to this service, but our investigator also concluded  that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. He noted Mr Ds concerns about having been  pressured but 
felt that the documentation supported  the sales being suitable.  He also accepted ReAssures 
position on the medical examination  that it had to be carried  out independently of his local 
GP and that if Mr D had been unhappy  with having to travel, he couldve raised the issue at 
the time.  
Mr Ds son, on his behalf, didnt accept the investigators view.  He maintained that Mr D had 
been pressured by a bank  manager  whod been  unhelpful and had subsequently been  
removed from his role at the bank. He also explained that Mr Ds business had a number of 
valuable assets  that couldve been sold in the event  of Mr Ds death. He also said that the 
£80,000 overdraft  facility hadnt  been  fully used. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his view, so the matters been  referred  to me to 
review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I appreciate that Mr D and his son feel very strongly that they were badly treated by the bank 
manager involved in the sales of the policies. I have considered  their recollections carefully, 
but I must  balance them against the other evidence  the documents produced  at the time of 
the sales  and also a consideration of the wider circumstances. And having  done so, on 
balance, Im not persuaded the evidence supports a finding that the sales  were unsuitable or 
unreasonable. 
The first policy was a condition of the business  overdraft facility,  so something that had to be 
put in place. And although the same wasnt true of the second policy, it nevertheless seems 
reasonable that Mr D might have wanted to protect his business  from any financial problems 
that might  arise in the event of his death.  
Ref: DRN17363262I note what Mr Ds son has said about the various  assets that wouldve been available to 
sell. And I accept that doing so could  have formed an alternative plan for helping  to support 
the business. But its quite common for dedicated cover to be taken out to protect business 
lending, so that unplanned sales of assets  can be avoided, especially as the assets may not 
be easily realisable. 
In respect of the requirement for Mr D to travel to a medical examination some distance  
away, while I can see that this may have  been  inconvenient, ReAssures explanation seems 
reasonable. And if it was something  that created too much difficulty  for Mr D, Im sure he 
couldve raised it at the time and sought an alternative solution that better suited  his 
circumstances. 
 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1736326