K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) overcharged  
him when  he returned his leased car.
Background
Mr C had acquired with funded  by a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. He returned it in 
September 2017. MBFS sent Mr C a bill for £2,190.46 made up of charges  for an incomplete 
service history, damage  beyond fair wear and tear and excess mileage. 
Mr C complained and said that when he returned it the dealer made no comment about 
damages. He also said he hadnt  been told about  excess mileage and if the dealer had told 
him of the charges he would have  either  arranged further lease  purchase  terms or bought  it 
outright. MBFS rejected  his complaint and said he had been  offered a 15% reduction in the 
damage charges,  but the others remained.  
He brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who recommended  it be upheld in part. She reviewed  the photographs  taken  by the 
inspector and thought that three areas fell within fair wear and tear. She couldnt  see any 
damage on the right rear wheel and thought the damage on the right front wheel was within  
fair wear and tear. She thought the mark on the front bumper wasnt clearly  damage that 
could be held to be outside fair wear and tear.
MBFS didnt agree and argued that the photographs showed there was damage to the front 
wheel and the bumper. It said it had repaired these  areas and had incurred costs for which  it 
was entitled to be reimbursed. Our investigator didnt agree and so the matter has been 
referred to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would address the excess mileage and the incomplete service history  first. I am satisfied  
that the documentation provided to Mr C when he acquired the car set out the agreed  
mileage and the charges he would face if he exceeded this figure. I appreciate Mr C has 
been a loyal customer  of Mercedes and he has had a number of their cars. However, I 
gather he hasnt returned one before, choosing either to purchase them in some  form or to 
trade them in. As such he may not have appreciated the requirement  to which  he had signed 
up.
He failed to have the car serviced and I am aware that the cars  computer  would have 
alerted him to the need  for a service which had long since passed  when he returned it. He 
agreed to a certain mileage and the terms of the deal were calculated  on that mileage. He 
exceeded the agreed figure and the car is worth  less as a result and MBFS is entitled to be 
compensated accordingly.
Turning to the damage the British Vehicle and Rental Leasing  Association sets out 
guidelines as to what is fair wear and tear and MBFS also publishes  its own guidance. 
Having reviewed all the photographs it is clear there was significant  damage to the car. I 
dont believe  that can be disputed. However, our investigator hasnt  been  persuaded that the 
Ref: DRN17764992evidence put forward by MBFS is sufficient to demonstrate that three  areas of damage  go 
beyond fair wear and tear. 
I have studied  the photographs in some detail and like the investigator I am not convinced 
that these three areas are damaged such that they fall into the chargeable category. If one 
looks at the ones not in dispute one can see that the damage is clear  cut, but with the two 
wheels and the bumper it is less clear.  It is not helped by the car being dirty at the time of the 
inspection and some  of the alleged damage  looking like it is dirt.
So while I can see there is a degree  of damage on those three areas I am not sufficiently 
convinced that it goes beyond fair wear and tear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial  
Services UK Limited to remove  the charges for:
Wheel RHR
Wheel RHF
Bumper front
It should also reduce  the remaining charges for damage by 15% as it had previously agreed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1776499