K820x#14This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001 alongside  a credit card. Mr A says Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS)  mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr A didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen a copy  
of the application form which shows Mr A selected PPI. Although the form shows a 
printed X rather than a manual selection, Mr As personal details have also been 
completed electronically and as the PPI was sold during a branch meeting I think  its 
more likely that the information  and choices on the form reflected the discussion 
between Mr A and the representative.  Mr A also signed this form and so if he had 
any doubts about PPI at this time,  he could  have raised this with the representative.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what he has said about his other 
means of making  repayments. But these points dont change  my decision.  I appreciate  Mr A 
would have been entitled to generous  sick pay from his employer (6 months full pay 
followed by 6 months half pay). However,  this policy would have paid out in addition to      
Mr As sick pay and for a longer period of time. And as it would  have paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance for 12 months, I think it would have been potentially  particularly useful 
to Mr A when his sick pay reduced to half. The policy  would have paid out in the same way if 
Mr A lost his job.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything    
Mr A paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr A back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN12085252my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1208525