K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Elderbridge Limited  continued  to take payments  from her account after 
her loan agreement  had ended. 
background
Mrs N took out a loan in April 2007. It was for 120 months. So it shouldve ended  in 2017. 
The loan was reassigned to Elderbridge on 1 July 2016. And Elderbridge  continued to take 
direct debit payments  after the loan ended in April 2017. 
When Mrs N complained  to Elderbridge it said there  had been arrears on the account. Mrs N 
didnt agree. And Elderbridge had never  contacted her to discuss the matter.  So she wants  
confirmation that the loan has been  paid in full. And she wants reimbursement of all the 
payments made since April together with compensation  for her stress and inconvenience
Elderbridge said Mrs Ns account had previously fallen into arrears.  So fees and interest  had 
been added  to her account. And there was an outstanding balance. Mrs N had been notified 
about the arrears  in July 2015  and February 2016. And the original lender  had written  to 
Mrs N about the outstanding  arrears  in 2010 and 2011.
Mrs N wasnt satisfied with Elderbridges response. So she contacted  our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He could see the fees and additional  interest related to a 
period between 2009 and 2010. Our adjudicator explained there are limits  on what he could 
consider. He could  only look at things  that had happened within  the last six years. So he 
couldnt comment on whether these charges had been applied  correctly. But it did seem  to 
back up what Elderbridge  had said. 
Mrs N didnt agree. So shes  asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. Shed  received a 
letter in 2016  saying her payments were being reduced in order to settle  the loan within  the 
agreed term. So any outstanding fees shouldve been taken into account  and communicated 
to Mrs N.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our adjudicator has explained,  our service is governed by certain rules. And we cant  look 
at things that took place more than six years  ago. So I cant consider whether the original 
lender applied the fees and interest  correctly when they were applied in 2009 and 2010. But 
I can see the direct debit payments due in December 2008, January  2010 and July 2010 
were unsuccessful. And fees and interest were added to the loan as a result. 
Letters from the original  lender in November  2010 and March 2011 informed Mrs N that her 
account was in arrears.  The letters said while the account remained  in arrears, additional 
interest will be accrued with the possibility of fees being applied.  
The annual account statements show additional  interest being  charged each month  
alongside the normal interest charge for the loan.  The 2014-15 statement shows  a figure  for 
outstanding charges totalling over £600. And the annual statement for 2016-17 shows  this 
figure had grown  to over £700.  
Ref: DRN13975852So I think Mrs N shouldve been  aware there  was an outstanding amount on her loan 
account  in addition to the amount she originally needed to repay. 
Mrs N says she received a letter in June 2016. Her monthly payment was being  adjusted.  
And it shouldve taken any outstanding fees into account. Looking  at the letter  I can see the 
lender reduced  the outstanding capital balance on the loan account from £362.69 to £328.85 
because of changes  in its interest rate which hadnt  been reflected in the monthly payments. 
But the letter  also shows  fees  and additional interest of £733.61 and a total account 
balance of over £1000.  So although the monthly  instalment was altered to repay the original 
capital balance and interest on time, the fees and additional interest  were  still outstanding.
As Ive explained I cant comment  on whether or not the fees and extra interest  were  applied 
correctly in 2009 and 2010 in line with the terms and conditions of the account. But the 
records do seem to show that Mrs N was informed of the outstanding charges on a number 
of occasions.  And although her monthly payments did repay  the original loan on the 
expected date, the additional charges and interest  were still outstanding.
I realise Mrs N will be disappointed with this outcome. But based  on what  Ive seen I cant  
say Elderbridge has done anything wrong in continuing to collect the payments to repay the 
outstanding balance. So I wont be asking it to do anything differently.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1397585