K820x#14complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the compensation offered by AXA France  IARD (previously Financial 
Insurance Company Limited) to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs A took out a PPI policy alongside  a store card on 4 June 2002.  She has now complained 
the PPI was mis-sold. 
AXA has agreed to uphold her complaint and offered  compensation of £264.60. It says the 
policy was only active on the card from June 2002  to December 2002 and the total 
premiums paid were £46.25.
Mrs A says the compensation isnt correct.  She says she never knew  she had taken out the 
PPI policy, so doesnt believe it could have been  cancelled and the premiums must have 
been charged for the full time the card was active from 2002 to 2009.
Our adjudicator said what AXA had offered  in compensation  was fair. Mrs A didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
I would also reassure Mrs A that I have  taken note of all her comments about the point of 
sale and the issues  raised in her telephone call to the adjudicator, in particular regarding  
cancellation of the PPI.
In this complaint  AXA isnt the business that operated the store  card and sold the PPI but it 
was the insurer  for the policy and it has accepted responsibility for the sale of the PPI. 
AXA has agreed to uphold Mrs As complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. So I do not have to 
look into how the PPI came to be sold to Mrs A, I only need to consider if what AXA has 
offered to settle  the complaint is fair. 
Mrs A says she didnt know she had taken out a PPI policy  and only found out when she 
made a general  enquiry following the publicity about  mis-sold  PPI. When she discovered she 
had PPI on her store  card she complained it was mis-sold.
AXA has agreed the PPI was mis-sold,  so the reasons why it was mis-sold are not relevant 
to the outcome of what Mrs A should be paid in compensation. When a PPI policy has been 
mis-sold the business  must ensure the consumer is put as far as possible in the position 
they would  have been in if they had never had the PPI policy costs added  to their account.
This means  a business must refund  all the premiums added to the card account, plus any 
card rate interest caused by the premiums being  on the account. Also for any time a 
consumer is out of pocket for the costs  of PPI, compensatory  interest must be paid.
Ref: DRN19482112In this case AXA has some summary records of Mrs As account. These  show  the account 
was opened in June 2002 and at the same time PPI was taken out. The records also 
indicate that the last premium for PPI was charged  to the card on 28 December 2002 and 
the PPI is shown as cancelled  on 2 January 2003. 
AXA also has full account records  from August  2005 which show  the transactions for each 
month going forward. These records show the amount of purchases, interest charged to the 
card, late payment charges  added and payments made to the account.  It is clear from these 
records that no PPI charges were being made to the card when these full records  start in 
August 2005 and going forward.
The information AXA has also shows some overall figures for the account whilst the card 
was open from June 2002 until February 2009.  This shows the total spend  was £2,099.48, 
the total interest was £656.88  and the total of premiums charged  for the PPI was £46.25. 
I know that Mrs A wants to know why the PPI was cancelled. She feels  that as she doesnt  
recall ever having the PPI then she couldnt  have cancelled it and AXA should  not have 
cancelled it without her agreement. She thinks that AXA are just saying it was cancelled to 
reduce the amount they have to repay her.
AXA doesnt  have  full records of everything from June 2002 through to February 2009. 
However the records provided clearly show the PPI was cancelled and the more detailed 
records from August 2005 onwards show no PPI was being charged at this time and going 
forward.
Whilst I cannot give Mrs A an explanation of why the PPI was cancelled,  I can say that there 
is no evidence to show she paid for PPI for the full duration the account was active.  It is most  
likely, based on the records, that the PPI was cancelled six months  after the account was 
opened. It is quite  possible  Mrs A may have had some other  offer that ended after six 
months and spoke to AXA about  this and at the same time the PPI was cancelled. Also 
sometimes there can be system errors that cause  problems and it could be that the PPI was 
cancelled by such an error. However  whatever  the reason, the PPI appears to have been 
cancelled.
What happened  at the point of cancellation doesnt affect the fact that the PPI was mis-sold 
and Mrs A didnt want or need it. So to resolve the issue about  the mis-sold  PPI AXA must  
refund in full what  was paid for the PPI policy.
The evidence shows that the total amount  ever paid in premiums  for PPI was £46.25.  So 
using this amount  to work out what compensation Mrs A is due to get back is fair. And this is 
what AXA has done. Including the premiums, the interest caused by the premiums and some  
compensatory interest  of 8% simple  less tax, the compensation comes to £264.60.
I have seen no evidence  to show that any more  than £46.25 was paid in premiums  and 
based on that I think AXAs calculation is fair. As this amount is the total ever paid in 
premiums for PPI, the fact that it is not clearly known how and why the PPI came to be 
cancelled does not affect the outcome of the complaint and the compensation. AXA are 
paying back to Mrs A the full costs of the PPI and some compensatory interest which is what  
is required when PPI is mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN19482113I have seen no evidence  to show the figures in AXAs records are incorrect  or that any more 
was ever paid by Mrs A for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think that the compensation calculated  and offered by 
AXA is fair. If the payment has not yet been  made to Mrs A AXA must update the 8% simple 
interest to the date of final payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1948211