K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss H bought the policy in 1995  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Miss H says 
she applied  for the PPI by post,  whilst Lloyds say it was arranged  during  a meeting. 
At the time,  Miss H was employed as a store  manager. She has told us she was entitled to 
around three  months worth of redundancy pay and a death in service benefit. Miss H has 
said she had a health condition at the time of sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Miss Hs credit card balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 0.79p  per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
Lloyds has sent statements  to show that the credit card account closed in November 2003. 
Miss Hs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Hs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Miss H about  the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss H and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and 
The information Miss H received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
Ref: DRN11935332As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Hs case.  
 
Ref: DRN11935333Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss H sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss H,  
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss H and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Did Miss H know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of the application form Miss H completed at the 
time of sale.  This is unfortunate, but unsurprising given how long ago the sale took place.  
Lloyds has provided  a sample  application  form which it says wouldve been  similar, if not the 
same as the one Miss H wouldve  completed. Looking at this sample application there is a 
separate section  called:  TSB Credit Card Payments Insurance. Within  this section there is a 
Ref: DRN11935334brief description of the cover on offer, including the cost and benefit.  Miss H wouldve had to 
tick a box within this section if she wanted  the cover.  Lloyds has looked at Miss Hs 
complaint as though it was arranged during a meeting.  I dont know  what  was discussed at 
the time Miss H took out the card, but I would have expected Miss H to have had an 
opportunity to read over the form she wouldve  completed and raise  any questions  she had 
at the time.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss H knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Miss H says she wasnt provided with advice  during  the sale. However, Lloyds has looked at 
her complaint on the basis it did provide  advice  during a meeting. I have done the same as 
this holds Lloyds  to a higher standard. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Miss H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss H. It seems Miss H cant remember clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely had some limited  information about 
Miss Hs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Miss H would  have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Miss H had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss H given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss H, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss H met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss H had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Miss Hs ability to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
she says she would  have been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss H. There  
was nothing about Miss Hs employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Miss H has told 
us about a condition she had at the time of sale. Based on what Miss H has told us 
Ref: DRN11935335this condition appears to have  been  managed well with medication and Miss H told 
us she didnt have  any extended periods of time off work due to this condition. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, accident and unemployment , it still provided useful cover given Miss 
Hs circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding  card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Lloyds was given a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss H would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Miss H would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was. The application form she is likely to have signed 
also described the policy as credit  card payments insurance, which would have given her 
some idea of what the policy was for. 
I am also satisfied from the credit  card application that Miss H ought  reasonably  to have  
understood that the policy cost £0.79  per £100 of the statement balance   if she was not 
also told this by the adviser during  the discussion.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss H 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Miss H might  have been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her decision on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Miss H, Im not persuaded Llouds  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Miss H. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Miss H all of the 
information she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Hs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN11935336-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Hs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss H has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Miss H? To what extent did Miss H 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Lloyds. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss H 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss H, Ive found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Miss H would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss H says she would  not have  taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. I have considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
Ref: DRN11935337As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Hs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss H ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  10% of her outstanding balance  this 
was likely to have been set out on the application form. But, I accept that Lloyds didnt make 
clear the on-going cost information.  So while Miss H didnt know some things, the ultimate  
position in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what she would  reasonably 
have thought from the information she based  her decision  to take out the policy on and 
found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded any disability claims caused or contributed to by a condition for 
which the policy holder consulted or received treatment from a doctor  in the 12 month 
period prior to the commencement date of insurance; 
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss H 
wasnt a permanent employee.
 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Miss H pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss H from taking out 
the policy. 
But the evidence  about Miss Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Miss H says she had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because, as outlined above,  Miss H 
has told us her condition  was well managed  with medication. Miss H hasnt told us any 
ongoing issues she had because of this medical  condition and it doesnt seem to have 
resulted in her taking  extended periods of time off work. So, based on the information 
available I dont think she wouldve envisaged that this would be the main  reason shed need 
to make a claim.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Miss H might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a disability 
claim without  having  to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
exclusion and limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
Ref: DRN11935338circumstances to Miss H from taking out the policy, Miss H, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss H would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Miss Hs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss H would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss H 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Miss H compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss H thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
Ref: DRN11935339to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Hs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss H and about the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss H in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1193533