K820x#14complaint
Miss R complained about a mortgage  with The Governor and Company of the Bank of 
Ireland (Bank of Ireland).  She said:
-the bank shouldnt have started  possession proceedings, and the legal fees which 
the bank had charged were unreasonable and unnecessary;
-she believed the bank hadnt treated her fairly,  or equally with her ex-partner;
-she objected to the bank not letting her sell the property.   
background
In October  2008, Miss R and her then partner Mr B took out an interest only mortgage with 
Bank of Ireland.  They borrowed  £96,750.
In 2011 the mortgage  went into arrears. When Bank of Ireland got in touch, Miss R said 
shed split up with her partner and shed  moved out. She was no longer making contributions 
to the mortgage.  The banks notes  record that in May 2011  Miss R said she wanted the 
property sold, but Mr B was still in the property and was resisting.  She said she wanted the 
case referred to Bank of Irelands  legal team. Bank  of Ireland suggested she should take 
legal advice or contact  an advice  service.
There was ongoing  contact between Bank of Ireland and the borrowers  over the next few 
years. Miss R said she wouldnt make any payments to the mortgage  as she and Mr B had 
split up, and shed moved  out. She said she was aware that the result might be that the 
house would  be possessed if the arrears  continued.
In January 2014, the court gave Bank of Ireland a suspended Possession Order. Mr B 
cleared the arrears, but in 2015  the mortgage  went back  into arrears. In February  2015,  Miss 
R told Bank of Ireland  she was looking at going to court to get an order  to sell the property.  
In April 2015, Miss R rang Bank of Ireland. She said the police had charged Mr B with arson  
for setting  fire to the property, and there  wouldnt be any more payments to the mortgage.   
Miss R rang Bank of Ireland again in May. She said the property was deteriorating  and she 
felt that Bank of Ireland  didnt really care about the situation, and she found  it odd the bank 
wasnt doing anything. Bank of Ireland said it would update her, and rang back a few days 
later. When  it did, the bank said it could look at taking the property into possession because 
of a breach of the terms and conditions,  because of failure to maintain the property. But it 
explained that there might be difficulties because of the situation  regarding Mr B, who was in 
prison.
Discussions followed,  including  a request from Miss R that Mr B should  be removed from the 
mortgage. Bank of Ireland didnt agree to remove  Mr B from the mortgage, but it gave Miss 
R time to provide  more information  and evidence if she wanted to repair  the property and 
make it habitable. Miss Rs solicitors didnt  provide  this, so Bank of Ireland went  ahead with 
court proceedings for possession in March 2016. This hearing  was adjourned to May.
Miss Rs solicitor asked Bank  of Ireland to adjourn the May hearing because Miss R wanted 
to sell the property.  Bank  of Ireland  agreed  and asked for updates. 
Ref: DRN19346462In February 2017,  the bank rang Miss R for an update. She said her solicitor  was in the 
process of obtaining  a court Order  for Sale. She obtained  this on 27 September  2017.
Discussions between Miss R and Bank of Ireland continued in 2018,  when  it appeared the 
sale of the property might result in negative equity, because of the fire damage. The bank  
explained to Miss R in June that if the property was to be sold when thered be negative 
equity, Mr B would have to agree as well as Miss R. Miss R said Bank of Ireland was being  
obstructive, and complained. She said Bank of Ireland had tried to posses the property 
without giving her a chance to deal with it. She was unhappy about the legal costs and 
admin fees applied to the account as a result of the possession proceedings. 
Bank of Irelands  final response to Miss Rs complaint explained that the mortgage  had been 
in continuous  arrears since March 2011,  and that Miss R had said she wouldnt contribute to 
the mortgage because she no longer lived there. Bank of Ireland said it had refused Miss Rs 
request to remove Mr B from the mortgage,  but it had agreed  to give her time to provide 
more information  and evidence if she wanted  to repair the property herself and make it 
habitable. As the bank hadnt heard from Miss R, it had started  possession  proceedings. And 
it pointed out that all fees had been applied in line with the mortgage  terms and conditions.
Miss R wasnt  satisfied.  She complained to this service about the legal  fees that had been 
added to her mortgage. She also said she didnt feel that shed been treated equally with her 
ex-partner. And she said she objected  to Bank  of Irelands position  in refusing to let her sell 
the property.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
In relation to Miss Rs complaint  that Bank of Ireland shouldnt have started possession 
proceedings, he quoted  part of the mortgage terms and conditions, which shed agreed to, 
and which  set out that the property had to be kept in good repair.  Although  Miss R hadnt 
been responsible for the fire, the property was no longer in a good  state  of repair  after the 
fire, so the terms of the mortgage had been breached.  The bank hadnt had any evidence  
that the property  would be repaired by Miss R or by Mr Bs family.  So the adjudicator  thought 
it was reasonable  for Bank of Ireland to instruct solicitors, and to charge the associated fees.
In relation to Miss Rs complaint  that shed been  treated unfairly,  the adjudicator pointed out 
that Bank  of Ireland  had agreed to adjourn  proceedings  when  Miss R had said she intended 
to apply for an Order  for Sale from the court.
Miss R said that her complaint that the bank hadnt allowed her to sell the property was no 
longer an issue, because she sold the property  in December 2018  and paid off the 
mortgage. But the adjudicator looked  at this, and said that Bank of Ireland would have 
needed the consent of Mr B as well as Miss R, if theyd  been going to sell the property in a 
negative equity situation.
Miss R wasnt  satisfied  with the adjudicators view. She said that she hadnt broken the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage.  She said that it was less than a month  after the fire 
when Bank  of Ireland had decided that the terms and conditions had been breached. She 
said the bank  couldnt have made that decision  when neither Bank  of Ireland nor Miss R 
herself had seen the house and what damage Mr B had caused. 
Miss R said that when the bank started  possession  proceedings in May 2015, it had no 
evidence of a breach  of contract. She disagreed  with the adjudicators statement that 
Ref: DRN19346463regardless of the circumstances which led to the damage,  the terms and conditions  had 
been breached  because  the property hadnt been  kept in a good state of repair.  She said 
that the bank had treated  the obvious  breach of contract   non-payment of the mortgage  
differently from the unproved breach of contract  about the state  of the property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I also need  to point out that as we only 
have Miss Rs consent to the complaint, I can only consider how Bank  of Irelands actions 
affected Miss R. I cant comment on any involvement Mr B had with the mortgage.
Complaint that Bank of Ireland  shouldnt have started possession proceedings, and the legal 
fees which the bank had charged were unreasonable and unnecessary
Miss R has complained that Bank  of Ireland  started  possession proceedings in May 2015,  
soon after the fire. But in fact the bank  first went to court  for possession in January  2014, 
when it was given  a suspended Possession Order. This was some three years after the 
mortgage had been constantly  in arrears. So I dont consider Bank of Ireland was 
unreasonable to start possession proceedings when it did.
I also note that Miss R was aware at the time that this might  happen. Shed  told the bank 
that she wasnt willing to make any payments as she and Mr B had split up. And she said 
she was aware the result  might be that the house would be possessed.  
At the end of April 2015, Miss R rang Bank  of Ireland to tell them about the fire and Mr Bs 
arrest for arson at the property. The banks  notes at that time record that Miss R stated that 
the property is in a bad way and is doubtful it will be liveable for some time there will be no 
further payments  made to the account and that arrears will increase. In mid-May she rang 
again and said  property is deteriorating  on a daily basis  as holes in the roof and property 
will become  unsafeshe  finds it odd that se arent  really doing anything.
The banks notes  from the time indicate  that Miss R was emphasising the very poor state  of 
the property after the fire, that she wasnt prepared to make payments, and that she wanted 
a solution. It appears  that it was only later than this, when solicitors became involved,  that 
Miss Rs position changed  about what she wanted.
Whats more important  than the change in Miss Rs wishes, however, is whether  it was 
reasonable for Bank  of Ireland to re-start  possession proceedings at this point. I find that it 
was. The arrears which had led to the January 2014  Suspended Possession Order  had not 
been resolved.  Miss R had informed the bank that they wouldnt be getting any more  
payments, either from her or from Mr B. The information shed provided about the property 
made it clear  that the banks security  was at risk. So I find it was reasonable for the bank  to 
try to protect  its security  by proceeding to a court  hearing.
I have also checked  the banks powers to charge fees. Section 14 of the terms and 
conditions, to which Miss R signed  up when she took out the mortgage, provide that bank  
could charge: all costs, charges and expenses (including VAT) we reasonably incur in 
connection with the mortgage deed.  It also says You must pay our costs in full so long as 
they are reasonably incurred and are reasonable in amount. I have seen nothing to indicate 
that the costs  and fees charged  by Bank of Ireland did not meet these terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN19346464So I find that Bank of Ireland wasnt wrong to consider re-starting  possession  proceedings 
after the fire, and that it applied fees and charges within its powers.
Complaint that Bank of Ireland  didnt treat Miss R fairly, or equally with Mr B.
As Ive set out above, I cant consider how Bank of Ireland treated Mr B, because we dont 
have his consent to the complaint. This means  I cant compare how the bank treated them 
both.
Ive considered whether Bank  of Ireland treated  Miss R fairly. I find that it did. It agreed to 
adjourn the May 2016 possession hearing at her request, and it gave her a significant  
amount of time to sell the property.  It was over two years before she did sell it. I note that the 
bank had agreed to wait even before Miss R obtained the court Order for Sale.
Miss R argues that Bank of Ireland  treated the two breaches differently  not paying  the 
mortgage, and not keeping the property in repair. I consider that the bank responded to each  
new circumstance as it happened.  In any case it didnt  have  to treat both breaches in the 
same way, because they were fundamentally different. But the key point is that both Miss R 
and Mr B were legally responsible for the mortgage  throughout,  because they were both a 
party to the mortgage. Miss R didnt commit the arson. But both borrowers were  responsible  
throughout for keeping the mortgage  payments up to date, and for keeping  the property  in 
good repair, in line with what theyd signed  up to.
Complaint that Bank of Ireland  didnt allow Miss R to sell the property 
Although Miss R did sell the property  in December 2018, Ive still considered  this complaint, 
for completeness.
As Ive set out above, Bank of Ireland agreed  to Miss Rs request  to adjourn the May 2016 
court hearing, on the grounds  that she wanted to sell the property. It continued to wait during 
2017. Miss R didnt obtain the court Order for Sale until late September 2017.  And she didnt 
sell it and repay the mortgage  until December  2018.  So I dont agree that the bank refused 
to let Miss R sell the property. It allowed her significant time to do so.
The one situation where Bank of Ireland didnt let Miss R sell the property  as she wished 
was when it appeared, in summer 2018, that the sale would result in negative equity  in 
other words, getting less for the property than the amount owing on the mortgage.  In these 
circumstances, the bank needed  to have the consent of both borrowers,  not just Miss R. I 
find that it was reasonable for Bank of Ireland to require both borrowers to be fully aware of, 
and agree to, proceed with a negative  equity sale. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Ref: DRN19346465Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1934646