K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the policy  in 1990 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a meeting.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mr and Mrs Es 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim for Mr E and £100 a month  for Mrs E. 
B&B says it cost £20 a month at the time. At the time unemployment  claims were  limited to 
24 benefit payments  for any one period of unemployment but there wasnt an equivalent limit 
on the number  of months for which the accident and sickness benefit  could  be claimed.
At the time,  Mr E was employed as a technical  clerk and had worked at his employer for over 
a year.  He has told us was entitled  to sick pay of twelve months full pay and at least  three 
months pay for redundancy. He has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
Mrs E was employed as a clerk  and worked there for four years. She has told us she was 
entitled to sick pay of six months full pay and at least three months  pay for redundancy. She 
has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
B&B has sent us a screenshot to show the mortgage account closed in 1996.  
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Es representative  says:
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs E wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Es representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  B&B should have told Mr and Mrs E 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs E and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop just at the time it would 
be most needed; and
Ref: DRN11542562The information Mr and Mrs E received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
provide their responses  to the adjudicators  opinion. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1996. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN11542563I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether B&B gave  Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
them to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs E 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN11542564B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Mr and Mrs Es mortgage 
application form had a separate PPI section  with spaces to mark to say whether they 
required cover  for accident and sickness only or also for unemployment.  There  was also a 
space to mark if they didnt require cover  at all. Mr and Mrs Es form, which they signed,  was 
marked to indicate  they required accident, sickness and unemployment  cover. The form was 
also filled in to say Mr E was to have £300 of monthly benefit and Mrs E £100.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs E knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
B&B says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs E have said they dont recall 
whether or not they received advice.  With this in mind, Im not persuaded B&B provided 
advice.
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs E. Instead,  it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs E were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr E 
or Mrs E were  unable  to work  through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs E 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. Also I think Mr and Mrs E knew  what the monthly benefit 
amounts were, because  these were entered on their mortgage  application  form. The form 
also indicated that known medical  conditions  that may become subject to a claim wouldnt be 
covered and nor would impending unemployment.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the other  exclusions  or limitations  before 
Mr and Mrs E agreed to take out the policy.
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Es. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
Ref: DRN11542565-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs E about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that B&B ought to have done either.
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs E? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs E. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  out the policy, had B&B done  things properly.
Mr and Mrs E say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs E had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs E chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs E thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs E have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
I think the information Mr and Mrs E were  given about the basic monthly  benefit  amounts 
was clear. I also think Mr and Mrs E were told they wouldnt  be covered for impending 
unemployment and known medical  conditions  that may become subject to a claim,  because 
their mortgage application  form said so. But the information about other aspects of the policy  
such as the other limitations, exclusions and cost, wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told them the exact premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs E would  have been  
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with B&B at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Ref: DRN11542566Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs E would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
The policy excluded claims relating to illness for which Mr and Mrs E had symptoms  before 
the start date, any recurring injury or illness returning in the first twelve  months  and illness or 
injury resulting from something  medically  treated in the twelve months before the start date. 
But in the light of what Mr and Mrs Es application form told them  about the policy excluding 
known medical conditions, I think Mr and Mrs E likely had an understanding  of the general 
nature of the policy medical exclusions such that more detailed  information  about this 
wouldnt have significantly affected their view of the benefits to them of taking the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E or 
Mrs E werent permanent employees; and
For unemployment the policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the 
remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr and Mrs E were eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs E wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr and Mrs E 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and were in permanent employment.  So, I 
think they still had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs E would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
B&B may not have  told Mr and Mrs E that any claim they made for unemployment would be 
limited to a 24-month  period. This may have  differed  from what they expected and might 
have hoped for. But the redundancy  entitlements Mr and Mrs E have told us about  were 
significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs E would still have  thought a policy that 
paid a share of up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments would have been of benefit to them  
and would help them manage the consequences  should Mr or Mrs E be unable to work due 
to unemployment  in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple 
claims to be made, it could help reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain time, 
Ref: DRN11542567ensure their home was not placed  at risk and might potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Es 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs E would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr or Mrs E were  made redundant, or unable to work through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that they would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints 
(DISP App 3) make  it clear  that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be 
presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh  
the presumption.  They say we should  follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr and Mrs E found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude B&B should  pay Mr and Mrs E compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think B&B misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of B&Bs  
Ref: DRN11542568statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs E, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1990  when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs E and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that B&B had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs E in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1154256