K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained Mortgage Advice  Bureau Limited (MAB)  mis-sold  an income 
protection policy at the time it arranged their mortgage.
Background
In January 2007, Mr and Mrs G met a mortgage  adviser from MAB.  They discussed their 
mortgage application and various  insurance policies alongside it. This service has already 
considered complaints about life and critical illness insurance policies, so this complaint 
focuses solely on the Mortgage Protection Insurance (MPI)  taken out. 
Mr and Mrs G say they were told they had to take out the MPI in order  for their mortgage 
application to be approved. Theyve said, as first time buyers, they didnt know  any 
differently during the application  process.  They were reliant on what  they were told by their 
broker, and trusted him to recommend appropriate  policies for their needs. 
MAB didnt  agree with Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. It says a number of the documents  it sent 
made it clear  the MPI was recommended, and there  wasnt any documentation  to support 
Mr and Mrs Gs view it was a requirement  of the mortgage being approved.  
Mr and Mrs Gs case was passed  to one of our investigators.  He considered all the 
information but didnt feel able to say the MAB had acted incorrectly.  He thought  there was 
more than once  instance where the documentation set out that the MPI was optional.  And on 
that basis, he didnt  feel able to say MAB had acted  incorrectly. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with this. They said the documentation indicated some  of the 
insurance policies  were required. And this, along with the advisers recommendations, led 
them to believe the MPI was a requirement.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved,  its been 
passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
At the heart  of this dispute, Ive had to balance up Mr and Mrs Gs recollection  of the sale 
against what is shown  in the documentation. Mr and Mrs G have been very clear and 
consistent in their recollection of the sale of the policy.  They say they there were told the MPI 
had to be taken  out in order  for their mortgage application to be approved.  
I have no way of knowing  for certain exactly what was said when the policy  was sold,  so in 
reaching my decision, I need to consider all the available information  and evidence,  which  
includes Mr and Mrs Gs recollection of the sale to decide what  I think is most likely to have 
happened. I dont doubt the honesty  of Mr and Mrs Gs recollections but, like the 
investigator, Im more  persuaded  by the documentation provided, all of which  states the MPI 
was optional.
Ive considered the documentation provided  against  what Mr and Mrs G have said.  The 
mortgage suitability  letter and key facts document both recommend Mr and Mrs G take MPI 
Ref: DRN14553392out, but they dont state it was a requirement for the mortgage being approved. I note the 
mortgage suitability  letter from January  2007 states:
The product I have  recommended does not require you to purchase  any additional 
products associated with the mortgage
And the key facts  document  from the same  time also states:
You are not obliged to take out any insurance  products 
Mr and Mrs G say these statements were contradicted  by the requirement  in the key facts  
document for them  to take out buildings insurance.  And this, along with what they were told 
by the broker, led them to think the MPI was a requirement of the mortgage  being approved.  
However, its not unusual  for lenders to require buildings insurance is in place. I dont think 
the fact their lender required buildings insurance is supportive of Mr and Mrs Gs account 
they were told the MPI was a requirement.  In my view, the documentation makes it clear  the 
adviser was recommending the MPI.  
I recognise how strongly Mr and Mrs G feel about  this matter, and Ive considered their point 
that this was their first experience in applying for a mortgage. However, I think  its sufficiently 
clear from the documentation  provided  the MPI was an optional  policy  to take,  and I think  its 
likely Mr and Mrs G chose  to take it out.   
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1455339