K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly  closed her bank accounts causing 
her huge  difficulties. She also complained  about  Nationwide blocking access to her funds.
background
Ms C told Nationwide  that she didnt recognise transactions  on her account.  Nationwide 
refunded her a transaction  and then reviewed her accounts. Nationwide wrote  to Ms C and 
said it would  close her accounts with 30 days notice. 
Ms C had told Nationwide that the account  layout had helped  her overcome disadvantages 
from her medical condition and subsequently  said that the closure of her accounts has led to 
many problems.    
The investigator said Nationwide  hadnt treated Ms C fairly and it hadnt noted her medical 
condition which is why she occasionally forgot subscriptions. He said it shouldve offered  Ms 
C support with her banking, but instead it ignored  her condition and closed her accounts.  He 
said it was fair for Nationwide  to hold Ms Cs funds,  pending proof of entitlement, as this is its 
regulatory obligation. He said Nationwide released  the funds when proof was provided. 
The investigator recommended  that Nationwide reinstate Ms Cs accounts  and provide 
statements for the last year, and pay her £500 compensation for the poor service  and 
inconvenience caused.
Ms C didnt agree that the compensation is fair saying that £1,500 would be fairer. She said 
Nationwide ignored  her requests for information  and had delayed  its responses,  without 
apologising. Ms C decided not to request an ombudsman to review her complaint.
Nationwide disagreed with the investigator, saying whilst it understood that one transaction 
was incorrect, Ms C made several fraud  claims and card replacement requests across  all her 
accounts. It said this caused  security  concerns  which  led it to decide to close  her accounts. It 
said that due to the way she had managed her accounts it wouldnt reinstate them.
Nationwide acknowledged  it had failed to note Ms Cs condition when she called, but said it 
couldnt see how this had anything to do with the reinstatement of her accounts.  It said it 
could've offered her an extended closure period to find a new provider. It said compensation 
of £250 was sufficient. Nationwide  requested that an ombudsman  review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at the decisions  and handling of Ms Cs account by Nationwide to see if it 
has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account and its regulatory 
obligations, and to see if it has treated her fairly.
I can see that Ms C made a number of disputed transactions requests to Nationwide and in 
some cases  has overlooked transactions which she had previously agreed.  She also 
requested new bank cards as she thought  hers  had been mis-used.  Nationwide  said this 
caused it concern  about the security  of Ms Cs accounts.
Ref: DRN10170092I can understand that Nationwide  lost patience with Ms Cs conduct of her accounts, given 
the work  that it was put to, however the disputed transactions were for relatively small 
amounts and I dont  think it really  support  its fears  for the security  of the account.
Furthermore, I think its likely that Ms Cs medical  condition contributed to her conduct  of the 
account. I think if Nationwide had discussed  the pattern of disputed  transactions with Ms C, 
they would  have identified her medical condition at an earlier stage and reacted accordingly. 
This could  have changed a strained banking relationship into one of support and information 
and might have caused  Nationwide to consider  maintaining the accounts.
Nationwide acknowledged  it failed to note Ms Cs condition and offered £250 compensation. 
Because I think that Nationwide has not fairly considered the circumstances of the disputed 
transactions and Ms Cs condition, I think it should  reinstate  her accounts and pay her £500 
compensation for the impact  this had upon  her. Ms C needs to take particular care in not 
raising disputes unless she has carried out checks into the background of the transactions.
Banks are required to follow legal and regulatory obligations. These include the review  of 
customers accounts, and where they feel it appropriate, to block  and close  accounts. From 
what I have seen Nationwide  has correctly followed its obligations  and acted within the terms 
and conditions of Ms Cs account  in deciding to block  her account. Although a bank can 
review and close an account it must treat its customers fairly and in this instance I dont think  
Nationwide acted fairly in closing Ms Cs accounts.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Nationwide Building  Society to reinstate  Ms Cs accounts, or offer new accounts, and 
provide her with statements for the last year on her old, closed accounts. I also require 
Nationwide Building  Society to pay Ms C £500  compensation  for the poor service and 
inconvenience she has been caused by its actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1017009