K821x#15complaint
Mr P and Miss K have complained that IGO4 Limited didnt treat them fairly when they 
amended their motor  insurance policy.
Mr P is the main policy  holder with Miss K as a named driver. So, for ease Ill refer to 
Miss Ks comments as being those of Mr P.
background
Mr P had a policy which IGO4, as an insurance  broker, sold to him. Mr P paid for the policy  
by monthly instalments via a credit  broker, which  is a separate  business to IGO4. The policy  
was underwritten by an insurer which is also a separate business (the insurer). After  he 
changed address  Mr P tried to update his details online  but couldnt do so. He phone IGO4 
who told him hed have to pay an additional premium  of around £434. But it said it couldnt  
tell him at that time exactly  how this would affect his monthly instalments.
It seems  that Mr P initially  thought his premium  instalments would reduce. But when he 
realised they wouldnt  he rang IGO4  back. He asked  it how much it would cost to cancel his 
policy. It couldnt tell him straightaway and said it would call him back. But it didnt do so. 
The credit broker couldnt collect the next premium instalment and IGO4 wrote  to Mr P to say 
that it would  cancel his policy. Mr P then paid the outstanding amount, which,  at that time 
was around £590  as it included the full amount of the additional premium plus interest,  on 
top of his usual monthly premium.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 September 2019. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
decision findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
When Mr P initially spoke  with IGO4 it told him that he would have to pay an additional  
premium to extend the cover to his new address. It seems that Mr P mistakenly thought that 
the premium IGO4 was quoting was an amount for cover for a complete year. That wasnt 
the case and, having listened  to the call I dont think IGO4 said anything  during it that would 
have given Mr P that impression. I think it was clear that the £434 was additional  to what  
he was already paying. And Mr P agreed to go ahead on the basis that he would pay an 
additional sum of around £434. IGO4  told him that this would be added  to his instalments, 
although it couldnt tell him exactly how much those would be. It told him the credit broker  
would write  to him with that information. But it emailed him confirmation that it had updated 
his policy  including  applying  the additional  premium  of £434.
Mr P then rang IGO4  again the same day. He said hed thought  that the £434 IGO4 had 
quoted was the premium for the full year, rather than an extra  cost to cover the new address 
for the remaining three months or so of the term of his policy.  IGO4  said Mr P could cancel 
the policy and that he would have  to pay for his time on cover  plus a £75 cancellation fee.
The call dropped  out but during a later call Mr P asked what the cost implications would be if 
he cancelled  his policy. IGO4 told him that it couldnt tell him those figures unless he actually 
cancelled his policy. Mr P made  the point that if it didnt tell him what the cost implication was 
he couldnt make an informed decision about whether or not it was in his interests to pay the 
Ref: DRN17857432additional premium  or cancel his policy. And I can understand his position. It seems that 
IGO4 couldnt provide  the exact cancellation figure because of the point that Mr P was in 
during his payment cycle. And it appears that meant it couldnt  be precise about what might  
be owing  or the amount of any refund which could possibly be due. But I can understand 
how frustrating Mr P would have found  that. There were significant sums of money  involved 
but IGO4s response  was that it couldnt  provide  him with the information. That certainly 
wasnt helpful in the circumstances and I can understand that Mr P might have found this 
very poor customer service.  But it promised  to call him back  later in the week with the 
figures. But it didnt  do that.
IGO4 doesnt deny that it didnt ring Mr P back  but said he could  have rung it back  himself. I 
agree thats  the case. But Mr P had already spent a significant amount of time on the phone 
and he no doubt  didnt wish to run through the whole story again with another member  of 
staff who would most likely be unfamiliar with the situation. And hed again  be faced with the 
prospect of having  to repeat the entire story  only to find himself most  likely put on hold for 
long periods as happened  in his other calls. So I can understand why he wouldnt have 
wanted to call back and would have expected IGO4 to fulfil its promise to call him back.
Also later - on the same day of the initial phone calls - IGO4 sent Mr P a further email with 
updated policy information that said it had updated  his details and that an additional 
premium of £0.00 was payable.  In other  words  it gave Mr P the impression  that he didnt 
have to pay anything  else. It didnt explain what that change to the policy was and given that 
the purpose of Mr Ps initial  call had been to change  his address its reasonable that he 
would have felt the new information  related  to that change of address. So I can understand 
that he might  have felt that IGO4 had changed  its mind and agreed to update his policy 
without further  charge.  And in those  circumstances he had no need  to cancel the policy  and 
potentially incur extra charges. In those circumstances I wouldnt  have  expected him to ring 
it back to confirm the cancellation figures.
But, in any event, IGO4  had agreed to ring Mr P back  and give him the figures hed asked 
for. And if it had done that he could have made an informed choice about whether he was 
better off paying the additional premium,  and associated charges,  or cancelling the policy  
and taking a new policy with another provider. And it could also have said that it had sent the 
notification saying that an additional  premium  of £0.00 was sent in error. But IGO4 didnt do 
that. I think that oversight prejudiced Mr Ps position.  And I think  its likely that if it had given 
Mr P the cancellation figures he would have chosen  to cancel the policy  rather than pay the 
additional premium.
IGO4 said that Mr P later made a decision to pay the additional sums it had asked for 
himself. But at that point  it had threatened him that if he didnt pay then it would cancel the 
policy. That could have  had a serious effect  on Mr Ps ability  to source  insurance  policies in 
the future,  and the premiums for those.  Thats because  many insurers  will see consumers 
whove had a policy cancelled by an insurer or its intermediary  as being a high risk. So many 
insurers wont offer policies to those consumers at all and others only do so for higher 
premiums. And I think its likely that Mr P would have wished to avoid that. So I think  he paid 
the premium reluctantly  and while still protesting that it wasnt fair.
As Ive said above  I think Mr P was led into paying  the additional premium because  IGO4 
didnt ring Mr P back and give him enough information with which  to make  an informed 
decision about whether or not to cancel his policy. And in doing so it prejudiced Mr Ps 
position. It follows that I dont think its fair that he had to pay the additional premium.  
Ref: DRN17857433So in order to put Mr P back into the position  he would have been if IGO4 had given Mr P 
the cancellation information he asked  for I think IGO4 should  refund  Mr P the additional 
premium the insurer charged and the interest the credit broker added to that sum. From that 
amount it can deduct the £75 it would have  charged  Mr P to cancel his policy.  I calculate  the 
refund sum to be [(434.83+78.27)  75] £438.10. To that IGO4 should add simple  interest  at 
a rate of 8% a year from the date Mr P made  payment  to the date it refunds  him.
developments
Mr P and Miss K accepted my provisional  decision,  but IGO4  didnt. It acknowledged that it 
should have called Mr P back  and given  him the cancellation figures. But it said that Mr Ps 
direct debit figures had changed and it was quite clear that he was paying a higher 
premium.  It said that Mr P could have phoned or emailed it to find out the cancellation 
figures if hed wished to do that. So it said that it didnt think removal  of the additional 
premium was warranted. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
IGO4 appears to be arguing  that Mr P must  have known that he was still required to pay an 
additional premium  because his direct debit  figure  had changed. But Mr P also complained 
to the credit  broker that it hadnt told him the amount that it would take from his account. And 
the credit  broker apologised to Mr P and refunded his late payment fee because it hadnt  
given him the changed direct debit amounts. And I havent seen any other evidence that 
Mr P was aware of the sums that the credit broker would attempt to take from his account. 
So I dont  accept IGO4s  arguments here. 
Also I note that IGO4  hasnt referred to its email in which  it told Mr P that he had £0.00 to 
pay or said why he shouldnt have been  able to rely on that. And I havent seen any 
evidence that following  that email it told him how much he did have to pay or how much  it 
would costs him to cancel  his policy. So I dont agree that it was quite clear that Mr P was 
still required  to pay an additional premium. It follows that I remain  satisfied that IGO4 
prejudiced Mr Ps position.  Had it not done so Mr P would have cancelled  the policy.  And in 
those circumstances  I think  IGO4  should put him back into the position he would have been 
in if it hadn't  prejudiced his position, as described  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require IGO4 Limited to refund Mr P 
and Miss K £438.10.  To that sum it should add simple interest at a rate of 8% a year from 
the date Mr P paid the additional premium  to the date IGO4  makes payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Joe Scott
1 If IGO4 considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P and Miss K how much  its taken off. It should also give them a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN17857434ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1785743