K820x#14complaint
Mr F is complaining about the way esure Insurance Limited (esure)  handled  a claim he made 
on his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr F was involved in an accident with another car which caused damage to his car. So he 
contacted esure to claim on his car insurance policy. esure arranged  for Mr Fs car to go to 
one of its approved  repairers (the garage)  to have the repairs done. Mr F wasnt  happy with 
the quality of the repairs as he said there  was damage to the drivers door which  wasnt 
there before. And Mr F says that the pre-condition  checklist he signed when the car was 
collected says there  wasnt any pre-existing damage  in this area.
The garage disputes that it caused any damage. It said it was raining at the time, so the car 
was wet which it thought may be why the damage wasnt picked up on the first inspection. 
Mr F disputed this and complained to esure.  esure said it would review the matter, but Mr F 
was unhappy  with how long it took to investigate this. esure referred  the matter to a senior 
engineer who said that the photographs didnt show whether the damage was present before 
the car went  to the garage or not. But it said that it would arrange  for the garage to do the 
repairs to the door.
esure accepted that there were some delays in reviewing  the damage, so it paid Mr F £100  
in compensation  for any distress and inconvenience  this may have caused him. Mr F 
disputes that theres no evidence the damage  was caused by the garage  as he says the 
photos taken when the car was first collected  clearly show there was no damage before it 
was picked up and the damage  was there afterwards.
Mr F says esure advised him that the garage  would contact him to arrange the collection of 
his car but he says the garage didnt do so. So Mr F says he called the garage  who said it 
couldnt carry out any repairs for around  two weeks. Mr F says he asked if he could receive 
a courtesy car, but he says the garage advised him that it couldnt guarantee him one. He 
says he was told if it could  do so, the car it would provide  would be a small hatchback.
Mr F says that he advised the garage  he didnt  want to book  the car in for repair  unless he 
could be guaranteed a suitable  courtesy car. And he says the garage advised him it would 
look into this and come back to him. But he says the garage didnt call him back.
Mr F then contacted esure to explain what had been  discussed with the garage.  esure  
advised him it would  look into the matter, but he says that it didnt respond to him. Mr F says 
that he felt he had to email numerous times to chase up a response, but he says he was told 
to arrange the repairs  himself.
Mr F reiterated to esure that he needed a courtesy car that was suitable for transporting 
himself and his two children. So esure  agreed  to provide him with a hire car while his car 
was being repaired. And it said that Mr F just needed to update  it when the car was going in 
for repairs. Mr F responded to say the car was going  in for repairs on 23 July 2018.
Mr F complained about the length  of time this was taking and esure paid him £50 in 
compensation for this.
Ref: DRN10001462Mr F further  complained to esure  about the way its file handler was handling the matter. He 
said that shed  made  numerous errors  and he felt shed made a personal attack on him. So 
he asked that she be replaced. esure responded to say that she would continue to handle 
his case.
The car went in to be repaired, but Mr F says that he wasnt given a hire car despite esure 
promising it would provide him with one. His car was returned to him repaired two days later.  
Mr F complained to esure  that it hadnt provided  him with a hire car. He says esure  told him 
that it didnt provide a hire car because he hadnt asked for one. But he referred  to emails he 
sent the file handler where he says he specifically asked for a hire car. esures file handler 
said that shed  received  Mr Fs email while on holiday and hadnt seen it. So esure  paid Mr F 
a further £100 in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused 
him.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as she thought  esures compensation offer was 
fair. She didnt think it was unreasonable for esure to say that there wasnt enough  evidence  
to say whether  the garage had caused the damage or not. But she thought  esure had acted 
fairly in repairing the car. 
The adjudicator recognised that there were some delays in repairing the car, but she didnt 
think esure could be held responsible for everything  that had happened.  She said its not 
unusual for there to be a period of waiting time until the garage  can book the car in for repair.  
She also said that esure had emailed Mr F on 13 July 2018 asking whether he still needed  a 
hire car, but she said that Mr F didnt respond  to the email. So she didnt think esure had 
acted unreasonably in not providing  a hire car for him.
Finally she said it was at esures discretion whether it should replace the file handler.  And 
she didnt think esure had acted unreasonably  in not doing so.
Mr F didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion for the following  reasons:
1.He said the photographs taken of the car when it was first picked up by the garage after 
the accident clearly  show theres  no damage. So he queried  how the adjudicator and 
esure could say there wasnt enough to say that the damage wasnt  caused by the 
garage. He also commented that the adjudicator didnt  ask for the collection documents  
he had, so he queried how she could investigate the complaint without it;
2.He said there were some significant  delays in getting his car booked in for repairs which 
he didnt think the adjudicator had considered.    
3.He said esure said he had declined the appointment  offered, but he said the adjudicator 
and esure hadnt taken  into account  that hed only declined the appointment on 
4 June 2018 because the available  courtesy car wasnt suitable  for him. And esure only 
offered him a hire car when he highlighted that it was liable for the damage  caused by 
the garage. He said that despite esure  agreeing to provide him with a hire car; he 
confirmed the date and time this would be required and esure failed to provide one. 
4.He says he asked  for a new file handler on three separate occasions.  He thinks esures  
failure to change the file handler was a breach of his insurance  contract.
As Mr F didnt agree with the adjudicator,  the complaints been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN10001463my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I would first like to set out that the Financial  Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator of the 
financial industry  thats the Financial Conduct  Authority.  This means  that we dont  fine and 
punish businesses.  Were a dispute  resolution  service and our role is to assess whether  a 
business has acted  fairly  and reasonably  or to see if its taken reasonable steps to put things 
right where things have  gone wrong.  
Mr F has raised  a number of points  he wants me to take into account. Ive read and 
considered everything  hes said. Ive not commented on everything hes said,  but Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key points. No discourtesy is meant  by this, but simply 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
responsibility for the damage to the door
esure says that its not clear from the photographs whether the damage was caused  by the 
garage or not. Mr F disputes this because he says the photographs  clearly show that there 
wasnt any damage to the door when the garage collected the car from him. And he also 
says that the collection  note confirms  this too.
I note Mr Fs comments and concerns  in this respect. But I dont need to make  a finding 
about this because esure agreed to carry out the repairs. So whether the photographs show 
the damage was present or not when  the garage collected the car, wouldnt change  the 
outcome of this complaint. I appreciate Mr F feels strongly about this, but, given esure has 
put the damage right, there isnt anything  further  this service would require it to do.
delays in getting the car repaired
Mr F initially contacted the garage  to report the damage on 9 May 2018.  But it seems  that it 
took 14 days for esure to review this. And I agree with Mr F that this was too long. Following 
this, Mr F contacted the garage to book the car in to be repaired. The garage advised him 
that it could book it in for repair on 4 June 2018.  But it said it would only provide him with a 
small courtesy car, which  wasnt practical  for Mr Fs circumstances. 
Following this, I can see that Mr F spoke with esure  and queried why it wouldnt provide him 
with a hire car as it did before.  But it said this wasnt possible. However, I do think,  having  
accepted that it should  repair the further  damage to the car, esure should have taken steps 
at this point to arrange a suitable replacement vehicle, but it didnt initially  do so. Had it done 
so, I think Mr F could  have had the car repaired on 4 June 2018. And I can understand why 
Mr F wasnt willing to have  it repaired  then as it would have meant that hed be without a 
suitable car for a few days. It appears  that esure did authorise  the hire car on 31 May 2018, 
but I understand it was too late for Mr F to be able to book the car in for 4 June 2018.
The repairs  on Mr Fs car didnt start until 23 July 2018  around  seven  weeks later. But I 
can also see that Mr F didnt contact the garage  between 4-27 June  2018,  despite esure 
telling him on 31 May 2018 that it would  provide  him with a hire car. I acknowledge that Mr F 
says it was for esure  to arrange  this for him. And I dont  disagree with this. But I also think 
Ref: DRN10001464Mr F would have understood from the communication  hed had with esure that he needed to 
book the car in himself. He also had a duty to mitigate  his losses.  So I dont think  esure is 
completely to blame for the length  of time it took for his car to be repaired. But irrespective of 
this, its clear that the car should have been repaired sooner than it was.
I can see that Mr F says that the garage wouldnt  book the car in until 23 July 2019 because  
the garages manager wanted to be there to oversee the repairs. But I havent  seen  anything  
to support this. The evidence  Ive seen suggests  that the car was booked  in for repair at the 
first available date where it could  provide  Mr F with a large courtesy  car. 
However, irrespective of the reasons  for the time it took, I dont  think its fair that Mr F had to 
wait two and a half months to get his car repaired. That said,  the damage was cosmetic and 
didnt prevent him from using the car. So, while I dont dispute that it would have been 
upsetting for Mr F to have the damage  on the car, I dont think this has impacted him 
significantly. But I do think esure needs to compensate Mr F for the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused him.
esure didnt  provide a courtesy car
Mr F is unhappy  that esure didnt provide a hire car while his car was being repaired.  Theres  
no dispute that esure offered to provide Mr F a hire vehicle for while  his car was being  
repaired. But, while esure has offered him £100 for this, Im not persuaded that it acted 
unfairly here.  One of esures managers  emailed  Mr F on 13 July 2018 and said the repairing 
garage can provide  him with a five door hatchback car but if this wasnt suitable  esure  was 
happy to hire something larger,  as he said had already been confirmed.
Mr F responded to this email and said that he was fully aware that the garage had offered 
him this car as hed arranged it himself. And he commented that this car hadnt  become 
available as a result of anything  esure had done.
I think it was reasonable  for esure to infer from this that Mr F didnt require the hire car it had 
offered as he intended to use the car hed arranged for the garage to provide. And Ive 
reviewed all the following  email correspondence  Mr F had with esure after this point and I 
havent seen anything to show that Mr F specifically said that he didnt want to use the 
courtesy car the garage was providing  and wanted  esure to provide a hire car. So, Im not 
persuaded that esure has acted unfairly  in this respect.
customer service
Mr F is very unhappy with the way esure has handled this claim. In particular he says that 
the file handler  made numerous  mistakes  throughout the complaints journey. And hes 
unhappy that esure didnt change the file handler, despite him asking it to do so on three 
occasions.
Ive reviewed whats happened but I dont  think the file handler  acted  wholly unreasonably. 
Mr F is unhappy  that the file handler  held him responsible for the delays because she said 
hed declined the appointment on 4 June 2019. I can see that she said that the garage  had 
confirmed to esure on more than one occasions that they offered to book the car in on 
4 June, but he was unhappy with that. I think  it was unreasonable for her to say he was 
responsible for the delay when he had declined the appointment because a suitable 
replacement vehicle hadnt been arranged by esure.
Ref: DRN10001465However, apart from the above comment, Ive not seen anything  to show  that she treated 
Mr F unreasonably.  I acknowledge Mr F was unhappy with the way the claim was being 
handled and, as I said, I agree that it took longer to repair his car than it should  have done. 
But I also think esure was looking to help Mr F throughout.  So, apart from what  Ive set out 
above, I dont  think the level of customer service  he received was below the level he was 
entitled to expect. 
compensation
As I said above, Mr F is entitled to some compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  
its caused him. In total esure  has offered Mr F £250  in compensation and I think this is in 
line with what I would  have awarded  him. The car should have been repaired sooner than it 
was. But he was able to use the car during that time, so he wasnt without a vehicle.
I can see that Mr F communicated  with esure extensively throughout the complaint. But I 
think that was his choice and Im satisfied that esure  had fairly responded to and addressed 
his concerns. So I dont think  esure needs  to compensate him for this.
Taking everything into account,  I think £250  is fair compensation for whats  happened.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint  and I require esure Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr F £250 in compensation if it hasnt already  done so. I make  no further 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1000146