K820x#14Complaint
Miss V complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, delayed in reviewing 
her credit card account to see whether she should receive a refund of interest and charges, 
as she did on her other credit card. She also says that it should apply the same 
compensatory interest  to the earlier refund.
Background
Miss V has two Barclaycard accounts. In 2018, Barclaycard identified that a number of its 
customers hadnt received the service they should have while  their accounts were in arrears. 
So it carried  out a review of the accounts affected, writing to the customers involved to 
apologise and say that it would refund  the relevant interest; fees and charges applied to their 
accounts through this time.
This impacted upon both of Miss Vs accounts, and it wrote to her in August 2018  to say that 
it would  refund the interest and default  fees that had been applied  of one of her accounts. 
This had been  transferred to a third party debt collection agency, so Barclaycard asked it to 
reduce the outstanding balance by the sum of the refund, £1,430.29. 
But Miss V complained  and said her other account should also be reviewed and she should  
receive the same refund for that. Barclaycard  said that this account  was part of its review, 
but it hadnt yet been completed for that account. It said it would write  to Miss V once it had 
been.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Vs concerns. And she said Barclaycard was 
working through the review of the affected  accounts, and this was likely  to take some time. It 
was unable to say when the review of Miss Vs other account would be completed, but would 
be in contact with her when this was done.  The investigator said that she appreciated 
Miss Vs frustration with the time taken, but she didnt think Barclaycard had done anything 
wrong.
But when the review still hadnt been completed  by July 2019, Miss V contacted Barclaycard 
again. She told us that it had said it didnt intend on viewing  the account  and she couldnt 
make a complaint  about this. However, the investigator clarified that the account  was still in 
the review process  which was taking longer than expected. 
But Miss V questioned  at what point the time taken would become unreasonable  when shed 
asked about the review  of this account in August 2018. Barclaycard gave an indication  of the 
time when  Miss Vs account  review  would be completed but it didnt happen within  that time 
frame, so she felt that shed been  given conflicting  information. 
Miss V then received the outcome of the review  of her second account in September  2019.  
This said that she would  receive a cash refund with compensatory interest at a rate of 8% 
simple which  totalled  £2,838.90.
Miss V asked for a breakdown of the refund. She said she should also receive  the 
compensatory interest  on the refund shed received for her first account; and she asked for 
additional compensation for the time shed spent  chasing Barclaycard for a response,  and 
the stress  this had caused her. 
Ref: DRN15256762A second investigator looked at the points Miss V had raised. He said Barclaycard had sent 
Miss V a breakdown of the refund for the second  account. And he didnt think  it was unfair  
for the first refund to be used to reduce the balance of Miss Vs debt at the time and not pay 
compensatory interest  on this. Although he acknowledged that the waiting time for the 
review was a stressful  period  for Miss V, he said that such  a project  is expected to take time 
and it was likely that not all accounts  held by the same customer  would be reviewed  
together. He didnt  think complaining about the timescales wouldve meant  Miss Vs 
accounts could  be reviewed any quicker as Barclaycard had told Miss V it would be in 
contact with her once the review of her accounts  was completed. 
Miss V didnt accept  the investigators  findings. She said she was given dates that 
Barclaycard would be in contact with her which it didnt meet.  She felt that she wouldnt have 
received the refund if she hadnt  come to our service, and Barclaycard mis-led her into 
thinking she didnt  deserve the refund for her second account.  She said it shouldnt matter  
whether or not she was still in debt when the refund was paid out, as the 8% interest was for 
the money and interest she lost over the years in having to pay the fees and charges. Miss V 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Miss Vs sense of frustration  with the time taken  for her to receive the 
outcome of the review of her second  credit card account. I can understand that this wouldve 
caused her stress and concern,  particularly if she was told that it wouldnt be reviewed.
But, as the investigator  has said, this comprehensive review would take Barclaycard some 
time to complete  for all its affected customers. It let Miss V know  that both her accounts were 
part of the review; that she didnt need  to do anything and it would  contact her once the 
review had been completed. 
I can see that Miss V looked to find out what was happening and wanted an expectation of 
when the review would be completed, and that she was given some  approximate timescales 
that Barclaycard  couldnt then meet. And I accept that this will have caused disappointment 
and worry, so that she felt she had to contact our service or Barclaycard again.  
But I dont think this means that Barclaycard  should pay her additional compensation, when 
it had confirmed the account would  be reviewed and that it would contact  her once this had 
been done. This position was also clarified  to Miss V by the investigator. There wouldve 
been a number of Barclaycard customers that wouldve been  in the same position; awaiting 
the outcome of the review  of their account.
At the time of the refund on Miss Vs first account, she still had a remaining balance with the 
debt collection agency so the refund was applied to reduce that. I dont think  this was 
inappropriate as the refund was for interest  and charges  that were included  within  that 
balance. So the refund being used to reduce this meant that Miss V was in the position she 
wouldve been in had they not been  applied to her account in the first place.
Ref: DRN15256763However, Miss V had repaid her credit card debt on the second account by the time the 
refund for that was paid out, so she received this as a cash payment with compensatory  
interest of 8% simple.  This interest  is to compensate Miss V for not having  access  to those  
funds through  the time, as instead she used them to repay her credit  card balance which 
included the interest  and charges. This is different to the circumstances at the time of the 
first refund as she hadnt yet repaid her balance  which the interest and charges being 
refunded were part of. So this is why the compensatory  interest wouldnt apply to the first 
refund  she didnt  lose access to this money  as it was still a debt she owed at the time.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Barclaycard should be required to pay Miss V 
further compensation on the refunded interest  and charges, or for the time it took to 
complete its review, when  the actions it has taken have put her back  into the position she 
wouldve been in.
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1525676