K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs C say Leeds Building Society (Leeds) mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Leeds had to make Mr and Mrs C aware  the PPI policy  was optional and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time but Leeds has 
provided a copy of the available  paperwork. Mr and Mrs C signed a separate application 
form to apply for the PPI in addition to the mortgage  application itself.  With this in mind I 
think they would have known the PPI was separate to their mortgage and that they didnt 
have to take it out in order to be accepted for the loan.
Leeds recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs C have told us they were entitled to very generous sick pay from their 
employers with Mrs C being entitled  to more  than 24 months  sick pay. Unfortunately Mr and 
Mrs C havent been able to provide evidence of this entitlement. 
Ive thought about the level of sick pay Mr and Mrs C have  told us they would have received. 
This level of sick pay is very rare and considering Mr and Mrs Cs employers and lack of 
evidence to support  the sick pay they would  have received I am unable to say this is what  
they were entitled  to. In any event the PPI would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay 
Mr and Mrs C would  have been entitled  to.
Mr and Mrs C have also told us they had some savings and other insurances when they 
applied for the PPI. But the PPI would  have protected their savings so they could be used 
towards other expenses  they may have had at the time. The policy would also have covered 
circumstances their other insurance wouldnt have. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time they werent  affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover. So I think it was right for them.   
Its possible the information Leeds  gave  Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Leeds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Leeds  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Ref: DRN11063222Leeds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Leeds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Leeds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative have raised  several other arguments. They have told us that 
the benefit split wasnt  suitable as it wouldnt have left them  with enough each  month to meet 
their commitments  if Mrs C had the need to claim. But I dont think the money received from 
claiming on the policy would be Mrs Cs only form of income and I still think Mr and Mrs C 
would have found the benefit paid by the policy useful if they needed to claim.  The policy 
would also have cost the same  regardless  of how the benefit  was split and as Mr and Mrs C 
havent made a claim I cant say they have lost out financially as a result.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has also said that after 9 months of no or low income there  is 
a government scheme that would have paid Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage interest. I appreciate 
this may have been the case but Mr and Mrs C would have had to have stopped  working for 
at least 9 months before they could benefit from this and it still would only have  covered  the 
interest part of their mortgage payments.  So again I think  they would have found the policy 
useful.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives have further  said that the initial  free period of insurance 
should be considered as an enticement  and pressured sale. While  I think an initial  free 
period may have  made  the policy more attractive to Mr and Mrs C I dont think they would 
have thought they had to take the policy.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said. But these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building  Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1106322