K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Ms H complained they had not received the correct  compensation for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  that Firstplus Financial Group Plc (Firstplus) sold 
to them  alongside  a secured loan.
background
In September  2005 Mr S and Ms H took out a secured  loan with Firstplus and at the same 
time bought  a PPI policy. The cost of the policy was paid by one premium that was added to 
the amount they borrowed so they paid interest  on that at the loan rate.
In 2008 Mr S and Ms H complained the PPI was mis-sold. They brought  that complaint to 
this service and we recommended it should be upheld and Firstplus should pay 
compensation to Mr S and Ms H for the mis-sold  policy. First plus agreed to do this and sent 
a letter  in February 2009 explaining it had credited the account with the full premium and 
interest for the PPI. It also sent a cheque for £4,681.86 to refund what  Mr S and Ms H had 
already been paid.
When Mr S and Ms H came to settle  their mortgage in 2018  they requested a breakdown of 
the account as they thought the settlement figure was higher than they had expected. When 
they received  this breakdown they saw that the cheque amount sent to them in 2009 had 
been added  onto the loan account. So they werent  happy they had been  paid the right 
compensation in 2009.
Firstplus said it had paid fair compensation to put Mr S and Ms H in the position they would  
have been if they had never taken out the PPI. Mr S and Ms H didnt agree and brought their 
complaint to this service  in 2018.
Due to the length of time that had passed  since the compensation  was paid in 2009, when 
concerns about  the amount should  have been  raised, this service could not automatically 
consider the complaint. But Firstplus said it did not object to this service  looking at the 
complaint.
Our adjudicator said what Firstplus had done  in 2009 to refund the costs  of the PPI was fair. 
Mr S and Ms H were  still not happy and asked for an ombudsman  to look at their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
As this offer of compensation was made in 2009 and accepted by the consumer, I have 
some concern that this service should consider a complaint about it now,  as any issues the 
consumer had about the compensation offered and paid should have been raised at that 
time. However as the business  has stated  it has no objection to this matter being considered 
I shall provide a decision which hopefully will help Mr S and Ms H understand what 
happened with the compensation.
Ref: DRN12773322The concerns the consumers  have  about  the compensation arise because  they can see on 
the mortgage account statement that when the cheque for £4,681.86 was paid to them in 
2009, this amount is shown as added to their mortgage. Therefore they think  they have not 
had the full costs  of the PPI refunded to them and put in the position they should be in as if 
they had never taken  it out.
The way Firstplus has carried  out the process  of refunding  all the costs  of the PPI to 
Mr S and Ms Hs loan is an accounting  method  and I am satisfied the right amount of 
compensation was paid in 2009.
When the complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold was upheld, Mr S and Ms H had already been 
making payments  for the costs of the PPI as part of their loan repayments. So what they 
needed to get back was what  they had paid for the PPI, in premiums  and interest  as the 
monthly repayments, which was £4,681.86, and this is what they were sent by cheque.
However as the PPI had been  added  to their loan at the start,  any PPI still in the loan 
amount yet to be paid,  needed to be removed.  But this was not the full amount of the PPI 
premium, it was only the remaining amount not paid back. This was in fact £12,924.10.  
The way Firstplus did the removal of the PPI from the remaining balance  was to take off the 
whole of the PPI premium  in two credits. One for the £545.40  and the other for £12,924.10, 
so in total £13,469.50  the total cost of the PPI premium added to the loan at the start.  But 
the £545.40 wasnt actually in the loan amount any more as it had been paid back with the 
monthly repayments Mr S and Ms H made. 
This £545.40 was also included  in the amount of the cheque sent to Mr S and Ms H to 
refund what they had paid. So if nothing more happened Mr S and Ms H would have been 
paid the £545.40 twice,  once as part of the cheque as a refund and once as a credit  
removing it directly from the outstanding loan balance. So the cheque amount was added 
back to the loan to give a zero effect to the outstanding balance.
But the cheque  also included the interest Mr S and Ms H paid when making their monthly 
repayments. This was never part of the loan balance as it wasnt added  at the start, the 
statements shows it was added each  month  on the outstanding balance.  So as the cheque  
paid for £4,681.86 included the interest, and this was being added to the loan balance  to set 
off the £545.40,  it also had to be credited to the account as well to give a zero effect.  And 
that is done by the credit  in the credit column  on the loan statement, for this amount being  
deducted from the balance.
Mr S and Ms H also received in 2009 an additional cheque for £595.75,  which was for 
compensatory interest  because they had been  out of pocket for the costs  of the PPI. As this 
was an amount that Firstplus were paying  directly no adjustment  to the loan was needed for 
this amount, so this is not in anyway  shown in the loan statement adjustments. 
A very simple check to see if the PPI that was still in the loan had been removed is to look at 
the account balance before interest was added on 1 February 2009 and then what it was on 
1 March 2009 after all adjustments had been  made. 
On 1 February 2009 the loan balance was £65,446.55.  On 1 March  2009, after all 
adjustments were  made, it was £52,436.98. The difference is £13,009.57.  So the  
£12,972.55 had been removed and a small reduction for the repayment of the loan with the 
monthly payment  is also indicated. This would reflect  the correct amount  was removed.   
Ref: DRN12773323I hope my explanation  has helped Mr S and Ms H understand  why this cheque  amount 
appears to be added to their loan  it is only an adjustment of the amounts that were 
deducted as part of the credit amounts that were not actually part of the outstanding balance 
of the loan.
It is regrettable that there has been  some confusion in the explanations  provided to 
Mr S and Ms H. The fact that this loan had a cashback option after five years is not relevant 
in this case. If the loan had run more  than five years with the PPI attached,  Mr S and Ms H 
would have received the PPI premium back. So if PPI compensation was worked out after 
this happened  then the amount paid as cashback would need to be taken into account  in the 
calculation. But as no cashback was paid it is not relevant to the circumstances here.
So I am satisfied that what Firstplus  had paid in compensation to Mr S and Ms H is fair. It 
has paid them back what they had actually paid in repayments for the PPI and then adjusted 
the balance going forward, using its accounting  processes, to remove the £12,924.10 
premium that still remained as part of the loan balancet.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I am satisfied that Firstplus Financial Group Plc has paid fair 
compensation to Mr S and Ms H for the mis-sold  PPI and Im not telling it to do anything  
more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 5 March 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1277332