K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about a buildings insurance claim made with Lloyds Bank  General  
Insurance Limited.  They say Lloyds forced  them into a position where they had to manage 
the claim themselves.  As a result, they say theyve suffered financially and with their health.  
background
Mr and Mrs H made  a claim under  their policy for flood damage. Lloyds accepted  the claim. 
Unfortunately, the two parties didnt agree on what would be a lasting repair. Mr and Mrs H 
obtained a report  from a structural engineer to support their position. Lloyds eventually 
agreed to the repairs that Mr and Mrs H wanted. 
Lloyds asked Mr and Mrs H to arrange  for their structural  engineer  to scope  the repairs.  The 
engineer did this. Lloyds accepted the proposed scope of repairs  and Mr and Mrs H obtained 
a quote from a contractor.  Lloyds agreed with the quote and works began. 
Whilst the repair works were ongoing,  Mr and Mrs H were paying the contractor and were 
then being reimbursed by Lloyds. Unfortunately, after the repairs  started, further  water  
damage was found in other areas of their home. The repairs  then escalated in terms of 
complexity and cost. Mr and Mrs H continued to manage the repairs until the work was 
completed. 
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Lloyds put them in the position where they had to 
manage the claim. They say this has had an impact  on them financially, professionally and 
with their health. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 October  2019.  My provisional  findings were:
Lloyds decision to settle the claim by making a money payment
The policy explains  how claims  are settled under buildings  cover. It says Lloyds will pay the 
cost of rebuilding  or repairing the part of the property that is damaged.  However, it also says 
Lloyds has the option of making a money  payment (often called cash settling)  instead  of 
repairing or rebuilding  the property. This would be the cost of repairing the damage.  
Lloyds therefore  had the option of making a money payment to Mr and Mrs H so that they 
could arrange  the repairs. In cases such as this, we say its up to the insurer  how it decides 
to settle the claim. However,  we would expect an insurer to take into account the 
circumstances when  deciding how to settle a claim  if it were a very complex claim for 
example, we probably wouldnt  find it fair for the insurer to cash settle.  
It seems  that initially, Lloyds intended  to carry out the repairs.  It arranged for its own 
contractor to assess the damage. However,  as Mr and Mrs H asked that contractor about 
some additional  private  work, Lloyds told them its contractors werent able to do private 
works when  carrying out repairs for them. Lloyds therefore asked Mr and Mrs H to obtain 
some quotes  from their own contractors to repair the damage. 
Mr and Mrs H told Lloyds theyd only enquired as to the possibility of Lloyds contractor doing 
some additional  work,  but theyd accept the reinstatement as it is.
Ref: DRN16951872Matters then moved on as there was a dispute  between the parties  regarding  what 
constituted a lasting repair. Lloyds wanted  to install a damp-proof membrane, but 
Mr and Mrs H wanted a pump installed. Mr and Mrs H provided Lloyds with a copy of their 
structural engineers  report  which I understand supported their position. 
I see from the claims file that Lloyds  was apparently willing to carry out the repairs  if a damp-
proof membrane were  installed,  but if Mr and Mrs H wanted to have the pump  installed then 
Lloyds intended  to cash settle.  It therefore  wanted its contractor to provide a quote  based 
purely on installing  a damp-proof membrane. I note Lloyds accepted  that Mr and Mrs H had 
only speculated about its contractor carrying out additional  private work. 
However, shortly after this, Lloyds decided to agree to Mr and Mrs Hs structural  engineers  
recommendations that a pump  be installed.  It thought it would be best for the structural 
engineer to scope  the repairs. Mr and Mrs H therefore  asked  their structural engineer to do 
so. Lloyds then accepted  the scope.
Lloyds then wrote to Mr and Mrs H to confirm it was accepting their claim,  and would  be 
reinstating their home back to its pre-incident condition. However, around the same time, I 
see that Lloyds  spoke to Mr and Mrs H about them getting quotes for the repair  works. 
Mr and Mrs H did so, and then instructed a contractor to start the repairs.   
Unfortunately, once the repairs  began,  further damage was discovered. I see that Lloyds had 
initially thought  the repairs would cost in the region of £50,000. However, by the time the 
repairs were completed,  I understand  the cost was over £900,000. 
Mr and Mrs H have explained the impact the claim has had on them  - financially, 
professionally, emotionally and with their health.  I do have a great deal of sympathy for them 
and the situation in which they found themselves. Ive no doubt that had Mr and Mrs H 
known from the outset how the claim  would escalate, they would have  asked Lloyds if it 
would be willing to arrange for its own contractor  to do the work. Given the complexity of the 
claim, I probably wouldve expected Lloyds to agree. However, the point here is that it seems  
neither party  could have foreseen how complex the claim would end up being. So I cant  say 
that Lloyds should have  opted to repair, rather than cash settle. 
Mr and Mrs H seem to think  Lloyds  wanted  them to use their own contractor because theyd 
made enquiries about having additional  private work done. But as Ive said, I think  its clear 
Lloyds accepted that Mr and Mrs H had only speculated about this. 
Nonetheless, Lloyds  decided not to carry out the repairs themselves. I therefore  disagree 
with our investigator that the decision to appoint  their own contractor was made by 
Mr and Mrs H. I think  its apparent from the claims file that Lloyds wanted Mr and Mrs H to 
arrange the repairs themselves, so that it could make a money payment. 
Mr and Mrs H say that Lloyds controlled  the works  by controlling them.  However, Lloyds was 
required to indemnify Mr and Mrs H (in other words, the settlement needed  to put them  back 
in the position they were in previously).  Whilst Lloyds  could have  made a cash  settlement 
payment at the outset in line with the initial quote from Mr and Mrs Hs contractor, this 
wouldnt have covered the further  damage  that was discovered and needed to be repaired. 
So I think it was appropriate for Lloyds to pay the settlement as the repairs  were ongoing 
and new costs arose. 
Ref: DRN16951873Although Lloyds said at one point  that it would reinstate Mr and Mrs Hs home, I think  it 
would have been apparent to Mr and Mrs H after this letter that Lloyds wasnt going to be 
arranging the repairs. Had Lloyds contractor actually started repairs, then we would say 
Lloyds had entered into a repair contract  with Mr and Mrs H, and it wouldnt be reasonable 
for Lloyds  to then stop those repairs and make  a money payment. But as far as Im aware, 
Lloyds contractors didnt  start the repairs. 
Other issues
Mr and Mrs H have raised some concerns about  the quality of the work carried out by their 
contractor. But as the investigator has explained, we cant  hold Lloyds responsible  for the 
quality of work carried out by Mr and Mrs Hs contractor.  
Mr and Mrs H say they frequently  went long periods without any funds  and at times were 
over £100,000 in debt.  Theyve provided  two emails written by them to Lloyds to support this. 
Their first email to Lloyds  said we are down  just under £47k. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H told Lloyds here that there was money  owed to them  of £47,000,  
but I dont think  this shows they were in debt (or that they experienced financial loss as a 
result). 
Their second email to Lloyds explained there were substantial arrears  and their contractor 
was saying they were  going to put down tools.  They then said the £70,000 that was due to 
be paid to them would address some  of the arrears, but there  was still £46,000 outstanding.   
As I understand it, Mr H kept track of all the various  payments he and Mrs H had made  in a 
ledger, and then sent that ledger to Lloyds  for reimbursement. Once Lloyds had approved  
the payments,  the money was then sent to Mr and Mrs H. Its apparent  from this email that 
Lloyds was late making some payments to Mr and Mrs H. However, given the extensive 
repairs that were taking place, and the large  sums  that were being paid by Lloyds to 
Mr and Mrs H, its not entirely surprising that some payments werent  paid as promptly  as 
Mr and Mrs H may have  wanted. Again, I havent seen any evidence  that Mr and Mrs H were  
in debt, or experienced financial loss as a result of this. And I understand the contractor was 
able to continue  working. 
I see that Lloyds  did make an error where  it forgot to add VAT to some of the payments. This 
was put right around a month later.  However, Lloyds has apologised for this and offered 
Mr and Mrs H £100 compensation. I think that seems reasonable.  
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds denies  that they expressed vulnerability.  To support this, theyve 
referred to an email written to Lloyds in July 2017.  In that email Mr H explained  hed been  up 
in the night trying to get the claim moving and worrying about  it. He said he was getting  
physically, mentally and emotionally exhausted  by all of it. Mr H said he was missing  one of 
the payments  from a month earlier. He confirmed  hed given  the go ahead for the strip out 
works to a contractor, and that works would begin on 7 August.
I agree  with Mr and Mrs H that this email shows Mr H was worrying about the claim. 
However, I do have to take into account that this was written  before the repairs  had even 
begun. It seems Mr Hs worry therefore wasnt about  managing  a complex  claim, but rather 
about getting the repairs started. I note that he didnt  ask Lloyds for help with this, but 
instead confirmed  that hed engaged a contractor  and works were  due to begin in a few 
Ref: DRN16951874weeks. And I see that two days later, Lloyds arranged for a payment of just over £12,000 to 
be paid to Mr and Mrs H. I would assume  this was the missing payment to which  Mr H had 
referred in his email.  
Summary
This was a highly complex claim and Ive no doubt  that Mr and Mrs H struggled  to project 
manage all the repairs.  It mustve been incredibly difficult  to organise all the work needed 
through their contractor,  as well as keep track of all the large payments that were  going 
through their bank  account. 
Mr and Mrs H clearly hold Lloyds responsible for them being put in this position,  but as Ive 
said, Lloyds was entitled to make  money  payments for the repairs. If the complexity  of the 
claim had been  known at the outset, then I probably wouldve expected Lloyds to arrange 
the repairs rather than choosing to cash settle  (unless it had good  reason not to do so). But 
the extent of the damage wasnt known until the repairs had started, by which time 
Mr and Mrs Hs contractor has already begun the work. So, I dont think it wouldve been 
appropriate for Lloyds  to then take over the repairs though  if Mr and Mrs H had specifically 
asked Lloyds to do so, I wouldve expected it to give this proper consideration. 
As far as Im aware, Mr and Mrs H didnt ask Lloyds to take over the repairs at any time, but 
if thats not correct,  Id be grateful if Mr and Mrs H could provide evidence of that in response 
to this decision and Ill consider the matter further.  
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Lloyds didnt have  any further comments to add. 
Mr and Mrs H responded  and made the following main points:
They say Lloyds  could  see that this wasnt going to be a straightforward  claim before 
the scope of works was even provided.
They did incur a financial loss, as they paid for some of the repairs  using credit  cards 
until Lloyds paid the invoices.
They maintain  that they did express  vulnerability  to Lloyds. 
Theyve found out that Lloyds engaged the services  of a specialist surveyor,  and 
think Lloyds should have asked its surveyor to work  with them.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that even though Lloyds were able to cash settle  
under the policy  terms, I would still expect an insurer to take into account a customers 
circumstances when  deciding how to settle a claim.  I said that if it were a very complex claim 
for example, I probably wouldnt find it fair for the insurer  to cash  settle.  
Mr and Mrs H think Lloyds knew how complex  and expensive  their claim was going  to be, 
and say that Lloyds were  aware of this before the scope of works had even been provided. 
They make the point that before repairs had started, correspondence on their file referred to 
Ref: DRN16951875their claim as being a large loss. They say the loss adjuster told them the large loss team 
handles claims of £500,000 or more. 
I dont know at what figure Lloyds categorises a claim as being a large loss,  but Id be very 
surprised if it were  as high as £500,000. In my experience, insurers usually categorise 
claims over £50,000 (and occasionally over £100,000)  as large loss. 
In any event, none of the evidence Ive seen suggests that Lloyds thought  Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim would exceed  £500,000 before the repairs started.  Ive looked again at the claims file, 
and the initial reserve set in March 2017 was £52,500 for the buildings  work, and £20,000  for 
alternative accommodation. Lloyds referred  to this reserve as being  a large loss.  
The reserve  was then increased significantly in May 2018 (some  time after the repairs had 
started). The claim notes  said the job had more  than doubled in size and cost after what 
theyd found on site, so the reserve needed  to be increased.
Therefore, although  Lloyds  referred  to the claim as being a large  loss before the repairs had 
started, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs H that this meant Lloyds knew  how complex and 
costly the claim would end up being.  
Mr and Mrs H also say that Lloyds  knew in October 2017  that there was damage  to the 
upstairs due to the amount of water in the property. They think  this shows the possibility of 
extensive damage beyond the ground floor was discussed and acknowledged before the 
repairs began.  
Ive looked at the emails between Mr H and Lloyds in October 2017. Mr H told Lloyds that 
when hed recently visited the property,  the wooden floor had swollen, and he was 
concerned about  the reasons for this. Mr H said if it were due to the damp  environment  then 
that was one thing, but he feared the damp may have affected the joists. Lloyds responded 
to this and said the cause  of the swelling  floor would need to be investigated to see if it was 
related (to the claim). 
I appreciate Lloyds was aware there  was a potential problem upstairs shortly before the 
repairs started. However, the problem hadnt been  investigated at this time, and so not only 
was the cause not known,  it also wasnt known just how much  damage there was upstairs. 
Crucially, I dont think Lloyds could have foreseen from this just how much the claim would 
escalate. 
Mr and Mrs H say they incurred a financial loss through  managing the repairs  themselves, 
because they had to pay for things on their credit  cards. They  say this caused their debts  to 
spiral, but they couldnt get the loss adjuster to respond or engage. 
I see that on 11 April 2018,  Mr H emailed  the loss adjuster  to say they were critically short of 
personal funds and therefore  behind  on paying  their contractor. He said the total amount 
needed was £58,614.40  to bring the invoices up-to-date. Mr H explained  that £36,000 of this 
related to the deposit for starting  phase  two, and the remainder  was for phase one. Mr H 
confirmed he was holding  back  50% of the final payment amount for phase  one until the 
tanking was complete, but he said it was important  they made progress by increasing  labour 
on site to shorten  the works duration. He asked if the loss adjuster could arrange payment. 
A few days  later, on 16 April 2018, Mr H again emailed the loss adjuster. He said:
Ref: DRN16951876we are critically short of funds and overdue  on invoices with our payments to [contractor]. 
I really need these funds  urgently. My ability  to get them  to put more people on the job to 
speed up is diminished when they are owed so much, they have  had pretty much every  
penny we have to keep  things going. And we are having some of our direct debits bounce as 
a result.  Moreover  we are likely to be homeless if we cant  get things sped up. I am putting 
everything I can onto credit cards but this is also hitting cashflow.
Lloyds had an obligation to pay the invoices that were received. However,  before  this 
particular payment was transferred to Mr H, it seems  he chose to use his personal  funds  to 
pay for his contractor to increase labour. My understanding is that Mr and Mrs Hs landlord at 
their alternative accommodation  intended to sell the property, therefore  there  was some 
urgency on their side to have the works completed as soon as possible.  So, I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs H chose to do this. But they wouldnt have been homeless if 
their alternative accommodation  property  had been  sold, as Lloyds would have needed to 
find them  further  accommodation (though I appreciate that wouldnt be ideal). 
In any event, I see the loss adjuster transferred £58,614.40 to Mr and Mrs H on 
17 April 2018, which was the day after learning that Mr H was using  his credit cards. I think 
this was an appropriate response  in the circumstances.  I havent  seen  enough evidence  for 
me to conclude that Lloyds actions caused Mr and Mrs H financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs H maintain  that they expressed vulnerability to Lloyds.  Theyve referred to an 
email written  to Lloyds in August 2018.  This email  said that theyd asked their contractor  to 
liaise with Lloyds as they were past their capacity.  Mr H said hed reached a mental overload 
where he simply couldnt cope with working  on it. 
Ive looked at the correspondence between Mr and Mrs Hs contractor  and Lloyds at this 
time. The contractor told Lloyds it would have been better if an architect had been appointed 
who would  have detailed  all the items  at the start of the contract and not along  the way as 
they had, but he said this wouldnt have  changed  the cost.  He said hed done  the work  free 
of charge, and had spent at least two weeks making  changes at a cost to his company. He 
asked for £1,350 for each  of those two weeks. The contractor then went on to liaise  with 
Lloyds about the repairs. 
As I understand it, by this time the repairs had nearly been completed. So, I wouldnt have 
expected Lloyds to offer to pay for a project  manager to help Mr and Mrs H at this time. 
However, I see that Lloyds acknowledged Mr and Mrs H had needed their contractors help, 
as it paid £2,700 (plus  vat) to the contractor as requested. Given  that Mr and Mrs H had told 
Lloyds they were struggling to cope, I think this was the right thing to do.  
Mr and Mrs H also make the point that Lloyds  engaged the services of a specialist surveyor. 
They think  Lloyds should have asked its surveyor to work with them, and then they wouldnt  
have been put in the position  they were in. 
From what  Ive seen, Lloyds first engaged the services  of a surveyor  before the repairs  had 
started. The claim notes  say this was to provide oversight and challenge. I would assume  
that Lloyds used the surveyor to approve  the proposed repairs.  I see Lloyds then used the 
same surveyor some  time after the repairs had started, in order to review  Mr and Mrs Hs 
contractors costs to check they were  reasonable.  
I dont think Lloyds needed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the surveyor. Lloyds apparently only 
used the surveyor  on two occasions,  so it seems they didnt have much  to do with the claim. 
Ref: DRN16951877And given  that a cash settlement was made,  it probably wouldnt have been  appropriate for 
Lloyds to ask its surveyor  to step in and assist Mr and Mrs H, given that they were  
organising their own contractors. 
In hindsight, it probably would have been best if Mr and Mrs H had arranged for someone  to 
project manage the claim,  and Lloyds could have covered the cost of this. But from what  Ive 
seen, Mr and Mrs H didnt ask for help managing the repairs, and didnt say they were 
struggling to cope with it until the repairs had nearly finished,  which Ive addressed above. 
Mr and Mrs H say the claim could have been  much  smaller had the property been  knocked 
down and rebuilt as they had suggested  before the repairs  had started, as the claim  would 
have been limited to £500,000. In hindsight, that probably would have been a better option. 
But given that the extent  of the damage wasnt known  before the repairs started, I dont think  
it was unreasonable for Lloyds not to take this option.
Overall, I remain of the opinion that Lloyds was entitled to cash settle the claim. Although it 
was categorised by Lloyds as a large  loss from the outset, the building costs themselves 
were initially  thought to be around  £50,000.  Had Lloyds known that the actual costs would 
end up being closer to £1 million,  then I would have expected Lloyds  to arrange the repairs 
itself. But I dont think either party could have anticipated this. 
Whilst I recognise Mr and Mrs H will be greatly  disappointed by my decision, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1695187