K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mr R complain about  the way The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) treated a 
payment they made to their joint account on 27 September  2018.
background
Mr and Mrs R told us they believed  the payment they made  on 27 September 2018 was in 
full and final settlement  of their liability under this joint account with RBS. At the time the 
payment was credited to the account by RBS and the account  was overdrawn by £2226.10 
with no agreed limit in place. Mr and Mrs R said theyd marked this payment as being in full 
and final settlement and if RBS hadnt accepted it on that basis  they shouldnt  have  cashed  it 
and instead returned it to Mr and Mrs R.
RBS didnt uphold  the compliant. They said as Mr and Mrs Rs payment hadnt cleared  the 
outstanding balance  in line with the notices and demands sent - the accounts had been  
defaulted. RBS said no settlement  had been  reached with Mr and Mrs R and only their 
collections department  wouldve  been able to do this.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In both of his views he didnt find any evidence  
to support the payment  on 27 September  2018 was agreed or accepted  in full and final 
settlement by RBS.  And he thought - without any assessment of Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances or prior agreement - the bank wasnt obliged to accept their cheque in full 
settlement. The investigator was satisfied from the records of RBS that sufficient written 
notice was given  by the bank before it applied to register  the defaults.  So he didnt  require 
RBS to take any further action.
Mr and Mrs R told us they disagreed with what  the investigator had said as hed been 
deliberately misled and misinformed by RBS and had failed to take their evidence  into 
account. They thought when RBS stated (in another  case)  settlement payments where  made 
in full and final settlement then Mr and Mrs R had to accept this. But they said when the 
shoe was on the other foot and they made  a payment to RBS in full and final settlement 
then RBS could  choose to ignore it. Mr and Mrs R thought if RBS hadnt accepted the 
payment on 27 September 2018 in full and final settlement they should not have cashed it 
and contacted Mr and Mrs R to make them aware  of this rather  than going on to apply 
defaults without  any attempt to resolve  the matter.  Mr and Mrs R said they thought the rules  
were being  bent to fit the banks purpose.
Mr and Mrs R also sent in evidence  relating  to Mrs Rs health  difficulties.  And they told us 
theyd found RBS had applied a default  to their account which they considered  wrong as any 
action shouldve been placed on hold whilst their case was being investigated by this 
service. They asked  for the defaults to be removed  for compensation for the ongoing unfair  
treatment. Mr and Mrs R also asked for the ombudsman to specifically consider requesting 
or instructing RBS to remove the defaults  applied to their respective credit records during the 
lifetime of this complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im very sorry to learn of the health 
difficulties both Mr and Mrs R have suffered in recent years.  I appreciate this situation  has 
been difficult for them and Im sorry to hear about  the domestic circumstances they find 
themselves living  in now.
Ref: DRN14441812Its clear that Mr and Mrs R have strong  feelings about this complaint. Theyve  provided  
detailed submissions in support  of their view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. However, I trust that Mr and Mrs R will not take the fact that my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central  issue, and that they are expressed in considerably less 
detail, as a discourtesy or in anyway  dismissive. The purpose of my decision  isnt to address 
every point raised, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.  The only 
issue Im considering in this complaint  is whether the payment Mr and Mrs R made on 27 
September of £875 was a full and final settlement of their liability under this joint account. 
For reasons Ill go explain, I dont  think  thats the case.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion  so I wont repeat it. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what 
hes already told Mr and Mrs R  I think hes covered most points quite clearly. 
Im satisfied from the records which RBS have  sent that theres no evidence  to support the 
payment on 27 September 2018 was accepted  in full and final settlement. Ive noted  Mr and 
Mrs Rs concerns that they think this is double standards as when RBS made  them a 
payment in another matter, stating it was in full and final settlement, this was binding  on 
them. So they think their payment should now bind RBS to close  the account.  But Im afraid I 
cant agree  as I think the situations are different. It seems to me the payment  from RBS was 
an offer after some  negotiation whereas the payment sent by Mr and Mrs R on 28 
September 2018 was sent without  notice, negotiation or engagement with RBS, their 
collections department  or the financial difficulties team.
At the time the payment was made by Mr and Mrs R RBS had already issued a default 
notice  on 20 July 2018. And later on 24 October  2018 RBS sent a formal  demand.  The 
debt wasnt repaid in full as required. So I cant say RBS did anything  wrong  when they later 
defaulted this account and recorded  that with Credit Reference Agencies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1444181