K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy Zedra Trust Company (UK) Limited  have  stopped paying him money  hes 
due as he hasnt  provided paperwork to verify his identity.
background
For the last 25 or so years,  Mr D has been the beneficiary of trust income  generated from his 
grandparents trusts.  The payments have been administered  by Zedra, acting as trustees. 
But earlier this year, Zedra told Mr D it couldnt continue to send him money  unless he 
provided some documentation to verify his identity   something they said they needed to do 
under the UK Money Laundering Regulations.  
Mr D didnt feel the need to do this as Zedra had been dealing  with him for a number of 
years. But Zedra explained  they needed to comply  with relevant laws and regulations, so 
they didnt have discretion to waive the need  for the documentation. 
Mr D made  a complaint  but as it was unresolved by Zedra, he asked for our help. His 
concerns were considered by one of our investigators,  but he agreed with Zedra   he said 
Zedra needed to abide by the rules and that while the trust deed  named Mr D as a 
beneficiary, the financial landscape has evolved  so Zedra  must  ensure they comply  with it as 
well as the deed. Mr D remained unhappy and said, in summary:
This isnt just about the frustration and inconvenience of filling in forms  he is 
instead concerned  about what he sees as growing levels  of government surveillance 
and believes the regulations are part of this bigger picture. 
The relevant  regulations  dont apply to him for three  reasons,
othe source of the money is his grandparents savings, so its not possible he 
could be laundering money
ohes not a terrorist and would sign an affidavit to confirm this 
othe obligations are on payers, not payees.
We havent shown  the rules  can compel  action by him as hes outside of the UK and 
we havent shown that a rule can retrospectively change the terms of a will.
The rules only apply  to payments over €1,000 and his payments are less than this.
The rules say Zedra wont  be penalised  if they pay him now given  theyve taken 
reasonable steps to have him comply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice. Having done so, I agree with what our 
investigator said, for broadly the same reasons. 
Its clear that this is a very important issue for Mr D and I fully understand that. So I wanted 
to make it clear that if I dont refer to everything  Mr D has said in support of his complaint, its 
not because I havent given those  comments due consideration, but because  I dont think I 
need to mention them in order to reach the right outcome  here. 
Ref: DRN10912522I appreciate why Mr D may have  concerns about providing the paperwork to Zedra, as it is 
personal and sensitive information.  And I can understand whats happened here is 
frustrating as Mr D has been  in receipt  of money from Zedra for quite some  time. But, for the 
reasons Ill explain,  I dont  think  it is unreasonable of Zedra  to ask for what they have.  
The UK anti-money laundering regulations and other relevant legislation place considerable 
responsibility on regulated  financial businesses to know their customer. With the movement 
of money, financial institutions  like Zedra must be able to show who theyre sending money 
to and where its come from  whether its been happening for a long time or not. The 
regulations ask trustees like Zedra to provide  transparency of beneficiaries  in their trusts and 
to take a risk-based approach.
Zedra have explained  that the information they need from Mr D is to verify his identify. And 
because he wont comply,  theyve  ceased payments to him. I can see why theyve taken a 
strong position here though, because  the implications on their business for failing to comply 
with relevant rules  and regulations are significant and punitive.
The rules  might not make specific reference to some of the things Mr D now raises, but I 
think their overall intention is clear in that businesses like Zedra should  collect information  
about their customers to understand the wider picture. I dont think  its unreasonable of them 
to ask Mr D to verify his identity in order for them  to comply with their regulatory and legal 
obligations  and I dont think Mr Ds surveillance  concerns  defeat  this. 
While Mr D is right in pointing out that the Money Laundering Regulations focus  on the 
obligations of firms  like Zedra,  rather than himself as an individual,  I dont think  this means 
Zedra shouldnt abide by them. And while he points out they might  not face a penalty  if they 
continued to pay him under these Regulations,  there  will be other  relevant laws in play too, 
so its not fair to say there would be no consequences. 
Mr Ds grandparents  wills may well have said that he is to benefit from the income of the 
invested monies, but it doesnt mean the mechanics of how Zedra pay-out will be the same 
as when the instructions were drawn up in the 50s or 60s. Then, he wouldnt even have 
been able to have the money sent outside of the UK in the way its done now. But things 
move on, and the modern day logistics and regulatory framework can sit alongside  the 
overall intention  of the instruction set out decades ago. 
Our service is an alternative  to court proceedings, and our role is to consider what  we 
believe to be fair and reasonable when considering complaints. As such,  we dont seek  to 
deliver legal  judgments  about contractual issues  if Mr D wishes  to pursue a complaint 
based on an alleged  matter of law, he will need  to that in court.  So notwithstanding any other 
laws or regulations that might be in play here, I dont think what  Zedra is asking  Mr D to do is 
unreasonable. They are sending money  to him and I think  its only fair  and in his best 
interests  that they are satisfied  they know where  the money is going. So even if Zedra 
were asking Mr D to verify his identity  in the absence of the Regulations, I would still think  
they were acting reasonably and wouldnt be directing them to pay Mr D despite his non-
compliance. 
Ref: DRN10912523my final decision
For the reasons  explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1091252