K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc keeps allowing him to go into unauthorised overdraft, 
then charging him for that. He says it promised it wouldnt do that, and he cant afford it 
because hes on benefits. 
background
Mr C has had an account with Santander for eleven  years, and he said he keeps having  the 
same problem, with Santander  letting him go into unauthorised overdraft,  then charging  him 
for that. He wanted Santander  to stop allowing him to use an unauthorised overdraft, and to 
refund everything  hes paid for that. 
Santander wouldnt agree  to our service considering charges applied over six years  before 
Mr C complained. It showed us Mr C had repeatedly incurred charges from not having 
enough money to cover  payments,  and for being  in an arranged  overdraft. But it told us all 
the charges had been applied correctly, and it didnt think it had made a mistake in this case. 
Our investigator explained to Mr C that we couldnt  consider charges applied more  than six 
years ago, and he agreed to our service considering the remainder of his complaint. So our 
investigator did that, but she didnt think that the rest of this complaint  should be upheld.  She 
said Santander had applied charges in line with its terms and conditions, and it was allowed 
to use money that Mr C had paid into his account to pay those charges. 
Mr C said that wasnt  fair. He told us Santanders  staff had told him that it would never again 
charge him for an unauthorised overdraft. And he thought Santander wasnt  allowed to use 
the money from his benefit payments to do that. He didnt think the law allowed it to do that.
Our investigator said that it was more likely that Santander hadnt said this in quite  the way 
that Mr C remembers. And she wouldnt ask it to pay the money back. Mr C wanted an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on his case,  so it was passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator.
I can see that Mr C has been charged  for using an unauthorised overdraft, and for payments 
that have failed. But the terms of his account allow for those charges. I havent  seen 
anything that suggests to me that these terms havent been followed. 
Mr C doesnt think Santander should  take this money, because  its benefits. He said 
Santander promised  not to do that. But, like our investigator, I dont think  its likely that 
Santander said that in quite the way that Mr C remembers.  Santander has told us that its 
policy says that it will apply these  charges,  even  if the money in the account is all benefits. 
So it said it wouldnt promise him not to do that.
Mr C also thinks  the law doesnt allow Santander to take this money.  But I dont think  thats 
quite right. There is law that protects  peoples benefits. But it just isnt as wide in scope as 
Mr C thinks. As I understand it, that law doesnt  mean that Santander is doing something 
wrong when it uses money in Mr Cs account to pay his bank charges.
Ref: DRN12530802I thought that Mr C might perhaps be better off with a different sort of bank account,  one that 
doesnt allow him to go into an unauthorised overdraft. Santander does offer accounts that 
do that. And its spoken to him about these charges in the past, so I wanted to make sure 
that Santander had offered to change  Mr Cs account type for him, if he wanted to. 
Santander has shown  us notes that say it offered Mr C a choice  account  in 2016. That has a 
monthly fee, and has controls in place to stop people going  into unauthorised overdraft. 
Because Santander has only charged  Mr C what its allowed to charge him, I dont think  it 
has to pay these charges  back. And because  it has suggested to Mr C how he could avoid 
those charges in future, I dont think that Santander has let Mr C down. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think  his complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1253080