K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by post in 2003. The policy  was taken  out at 
the same  time as Mrs G applied for a credit card. It gave her accident,  sickness and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Gs representative says RBS didnt make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mrs G 
applied by post and had no direct  contact with the bank during the sale,  so Ive 
looked carefully at the form she completed. On it she ticked a box indicating  that she 
wanted to protect her repayments with PPI. I havent found any wording that could 
reasonably have led Mrs G to believe she had to buy it. So I think  RBS made  it clear  
to Mrs G that she had a choice about  PPI and she agreed  to take it out.  
Mrs Gs representative says the PPI wasnt suitable for Mrs G. But RBS didnt 
recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. It 
was up to Mrs G to decide whether the policy was right for her bearing in mind her  
ability to make her credit card repayments  if she was unable  to work or lost her job. 
Mrs Gs representative argues with better information on the cost versus  the benefit  of the 
policy Mrs G wouldnt have taken out the PPI as she had good work benefits and other 
means. And I agree its possible the information  RBS gave Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But Mrs G chose  to take out the policy  and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  
Whilst she was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay from her employer if 
she was sick, and some redundancy pay, the PPI would have paid out in addition to her 
work benefits and for up to 12 months.  She told us her partner also had savings of £2,000 
but this isnt suitable alternative protection. The savings werent in her name so access to 
the money wasnt guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. Overall I think it 
unlikely Mrs G wouldve made  a different decision  if better  information  had been provided. 
I think its likely she would  still have taken out the policy. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Ref: DRN13518322RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mrs G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1351832