K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the delays he experienced trying to obtain an annuity  quotation  from 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva).  He says as a result hes lost out financially as his 
transfer value,  tax-free cash and annuity payments went down and he didnt get his first 
annuity payment  until six weeks  after his retirement date. 
background
Mr C called Aviva in July 2018 about his annuity options. He was sixty-five in         
September 2018. During the call, he said he planned to do some research and he would call 
Aviva back.  On 23 August 2018,  Mr C called Aviva  back. He had also called Aviva a day or 
so earlier. By then, his birthday was in approximately three  weeks  time. Aviva said he 
needed to speak to one of its annuity advisers  first, before  it could send him a quote.
The first telephone appointment Aviva could  give Mr C to speak to one of its annuity advisers 
was in two and a half weeks time. Mr C had a holiday booked,  so he asked for an 
appointment before he went away. Aviva didnt have  any free appointments. The first 
mutually convenient appointment was on 21 September,  just over a week  after Mr Cs 
birthday. Mr C was e-mailed his annuity  quotation  shortly after that telephone appointment.
Having complained to Aviva  about  the service provided, he spoke with Aviva again on 
25 September. Aviva acknowledged that the service it had provided  had fallen short and 
offered Mr C £100 compensation. It also said that if he decided  to stay with Aviva it would 
consider backdating the value of his annuity  to his birthday.
In October  2018, Aviva  received  Mr Cs transfer authority from Provider A. Mr C received a 
lower tax-free cash payment and annuity income  than he wouldve had his annuity  
application been processed  earlier. Mr C holds Aviva responsible  for the differences in 
amounts and the fact that he did not receive  his first annuity payment until six weeks  after 
his birthday.
Ref: DRN16057562Mr C complained to our service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold his complaint. Our adjudicator 
concluded that:
two and a half weeks wasnt an unreasonable time to wait for a quote as Aviva  was 
going through a particularly busy time. 
whilst  Provider  A had provided Mr C with a same day quotation, this service must 
look at whats reasonable, rather than by comparing it directly  to how other business 
work.
once Mr C received his annuity quote  from Aviva on 21 September  2018,  he couldve 
purchased its annuity, or another, annuity  then. He knew  the outcome of his service 
complaint on 25 September 2018. He was told Aviva wouldnt honour  the backdated 
fund value if he transferred his pension to another provider, but would  consider  
backdating his annuity if he kept it with Aviva.
as from 25 September 2018,  Mr C had all the information he needed from Aviva to 
make an informed decision about an annuity through Aviva. Aviva cant fairly be held 
responsible for the time it took Mr C to shop around  and compare quotes  after that
Mr C didnt accept our adjudicators findings.  He asked for his case  to be considered  by an 
ombudsman and said, in summary, the following:
the last adviser  he spoke to at Aviva point  blank refused to backdate his annuity.
the drop in value  happened whilst he was waiting for an appointment, he wasnt 
looking around for a better deal  he had no intention of leaving  Aviva.
he lost several thousand  pounds due to Avivas incompetence  and maladministration.  
Mr Cs complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator and for much the same reasons. Im not going to 
uphold his complaint.
In addition to what the adjudicators said, Ive listened carefully to the call between  Mr C and 
Avivas complaint handler on 25 September. She indicated that if he decided  to stay with 
Aviva, she would consider whether Mr Cs annuity could be backdated to his birthday. 
Mr C says there was another call after that and the offer to backdate was retracted. There  
seems to be no call recording available of that call. 
I can see from Avivas  notes a call between Mr C and Aviva on 3 October 2018, where he 
appeared to be asking  Aviva to provide quotes matching Provider  As offer and backdating 
the value to his birthday. I can see that Aviva said it had to be one or the other.  I dont think 
this was an unreasonable response in the circumstances, particularly having concluded, like 
our adjudicator, that a two and a half week delay in providing the quotation wasnt  
unreasonable in the circumstances. Mr Cs transfer authority seems to have been received 
Ref: DRN16057563by Aviva shortly after that call. So, I think it likely  that one of those two options was still 
available.
During the phone  call on 25 September, Mr C mentioned a quotation from another  provider. 
He also said during the July 2018 call that he was going to do his own research about 
annuities. This doesnt suggest to me that he had no intention  of leaving Aviva, rather  that he 
was considering all his options and assessing the best option  available  to him.
I can see that when  Aviva sent him his annuity  quotation on 21 September  his fund was 
worth nearly £117,000  and that on transfer it had reduced to £111,000. In July 2018  when 
he called  Aviva, I understand the value was not too dissimilar to his September  valuation. 
Understandably, from Mr Cs perspective, it must  be very disappointing to see the fund value 
drop like this. But, I cant see that the fund value reduced as a direct result  of anything that 
Aviva did wrong. The drop in value was due to market fluctuations. So, I cant fairly hold 
responsible for the differences in values.  I therefore  do not consider that Aviva needs to do 
anything further  to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1605756