K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc compromised  the security  of her personal  
banking details and those of her mother,  when it wrote to her confirming a bank transfer.
background
Mrs Ss mother transferred a large  sum of money  to her by a bank transfer. It wrote to Mrs S 
to confirm the details of the payment but she was very concerned about the amount of 
information in the letter. She wasnt expecting the letter and was worried about the security 
implications if it had been intercepted by fraudsters.
Clydesdale said it hadnt done anything wrong.  It said itd written  to Mrs S to advise her that 
funds had been credited to her account via CHAPS. It said that in line with its standard 
procedure it included details of the beneficiary and the remitter.
Our investigator didnt  think Clydesdale  had done  anything wrong. He said the bank needs to 
send some information to a recipient  of money.  And he didnt  think the information in the 
letter was excessive. He thought it was the normal type of information that would  be 
available during a bank  transfer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators  opinion so I know she will be disappointed when I 
say Ive come to a similar conclusion as him for very similar reasons.
Clydesdale followed its normal procedures when it sent Mrs S confirmation of the payment. I 
can understand her concerns about banking security in general  but I agree with our 
investigator that the information the bank sent to her didnt seem to be excessive. And it 
didnt appear to be the sort of information  that could  be used by a fraudster to access  either 
her or her mothers  bank  account. 
So for those reasons I cant fairly  find Clydesdale Bank did anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Linda Freestone
Ref: DRN15970662ombudsman
Ref: DRN1597066