K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about Scottish Widows Limited  (Scottish Widows). He wants  to combine  his 
two pension plans  and transfer  the value to a Drawdown  arrangement  without taking tax free 
cash (TFC). Mr Os unhappy  Scottish Widows says he needs financial advice from a 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) registered independent financial adviser  (IFA) before it 
will allow him to do this. 
background
Mr O has two pension policies with Scottish Widows. One is a Stakeholder Pension Plan 
ending 722 and the other is a Personal  Pension  Plan ending  86W.
In July 2018 Mr O contacted Scottish Widows and made enquiries about the retirement 
process. He asked to combine his two pension policies and transfer the total value  to a 
Drawdown arrangement via Scottish  Widows Retirement  Account. Mr O confirmed he didnt 
want to take any TFC as part of the transaction.  
Scottish Widows  said Mr O would first need to transfer his policy ending 86W to Drawdown 
because the value of his other policy ending 722 was below its eligibility  level for transfer to 
its Retirement Account. It also said that as Mr O didnt  want to take TFC as part of the 
transaction, it needed him to complete the transfer  using an IFA.
Scottish Widows  later received a Letter  of Authority (LOA) from an IFA Mr O had appointed. 
The LOA was reviewed  and Scottish Widows identified that Mr Os IFA wasnt  FCA 
registered. Because of this Scottish Widows  said the process  of combining and transferring 
Mr Os policies into a drawdown  arrangement  without taking TFC couldnt be started. 
Unhappy with this, Mr O later complained. In summary he said:
he wanted to take retirement benefits from his pensions  and was unhappy this was 
proving to be such a difficult   task
as requested hed enlisted the services  of an IFA based in Luxembourg  but was 
frustrated hed been told he needed to use an IFA who was regulated by the FCA
he didnt think it was reasonable  for Scottish Widows to expect him to pay for 
financial advice from someone he didnt know or trust
he couldnt understand why Scottish Widows couldnt simply carry out his 
instructions, especially as hed provided  documentation to verify  his identity
as a long standing investor he found  Scottish Widows requirements  and processes  
absurd and unnecessary 
Scottish Widows  responded to Mr Os complaint and provided its final response. In summary  
it said:
its requirement was that financial advice was necessary when combining policies. 
This was to ensure that if there were any special  features or benefits  lost after 
policies were closed  customers  like Mr O would be able to take advice to establish 
what this might mean for them
it wanted to make  sure the decision making of its customers  was as informed as 
possible 
as a U.K. based pension provider it was regulated  by the FCA and deemed  it 
appropriate to expect its customers to use IFAs who were also regulated  by the FCA
Ref: DRN13266662Mr O could review  a website (the details of which  were  provided) for information and 
contact details of FCA regulated IFAs
it didnt think it had done anything wrong  and so it didnt uphold Mr Os complaint
Unhappy with Scottish Widows response Mr O referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and said she didnt think  Scottish  Widows  
had done anything wrong. She didnt think Scottish Widows requirement was unreasonable  
in the circumstances.
Mr O disagreed and in summary  said:
he understood the need for someone starting  out in life to take financial advice but at 
almost 68 years old he didnt think it was reasonable for Scottish Widows to expect 
him to take such advice
he didnt want to take any financial advice. He simply wanted to take his pensions 
benefits and enjoy his retirement
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken serious note of the correspondence, arguments and comments  made  by the involved 
parties, Ive limited my response to what I consider to be the issues central  to this complaint.
I should firstly say that I do appreciate  Mr Os frustrations regarding this matter. As Mr O has 
explained, he would like to retire and simply wants to use the proceeds of his policies to do 
so in a certain  way. He doesnt think his requests  are complicated and finds  Scottish  Widows  
requirements illogical.
I dont think Mr Os desire to combine his policies and transfer the total value  to a Retirement 
Account without taking  TFC is unreasonable. But I must also have regard for the terms 
applicable to the Retirement Account Mr O wants to transfer to and Scottish Widows 
requirements in the circumstances.
The terms applicable  to Scottish Widows Retirement Account  say the minimum transfer  
value accepted into a new Retirement Account is £10,000.The approximate  value of Mr Os 
plan ending  722 as at 24 June 2019  was £8,864.14. And for plan ending 86W the value was 
£81,504.95. So to have  met Scottish Widows  minimum  requirement  Mr O wouldve had to 
first transfer the value  of his 86W plan to his 722 plan first.
But this transaction  forms part of Scottish Widows standard  retirement  journey for a 
customer where theyre taking their TFC entitlement.  If a customer wants  to follow  this 
process without claiming TFC (as is the case with Mr O), Scottish Widows business position  
is that financial advice  from an FCA registered  IFA must be taken. This is a commercial 
decision Scottish Widows is entitled to make.
Through its Pot Consolidation process  Scottish Widows has explained it can facilitate a 
request to combine pensions and transfer  to its Retirement Account without taking TFC or 
Ref: DRN13266663using an IFA. However  to be able to do this Scottish Widows requires a customer  to reside in 
the U.K. Unfortunately this doesnt apply to Mr O as he lives in France.
As Mr O wants to take out a new product with Scottish Widows and therefore enter into new 
contract he is bound  by the products  applicable  terms which  include Scottish Widows 
requirements. I havent seen anything to suggest  Scottish Widows requirements are 
unreasonable. 
Id like to reassure Mr O that Scottish Widows requirements arent uncommon. And I havent 
seen anything which persuades me Scottish  Widows  is imposing its requirements  unfairly  or 
that its being deliberately obstructive. Indeed  Scottish Widows has a duty to protect 
customers who may be giving up valuable benefits. And because of this I think  its 
reasonable Scottish Widows wants to ensure  customers  transferring to a new product like its 
Retirement Account fully understand  what their options are and the nature of the 
arrangement theyre choosing to enter  into. And as Ive already said, Im also satisfied 
Scottish Widows  requirements in the circumstances are a legitimate exercise of its own 
commercial judgement as to how it operates as a business. It wouldnt be appropriate for this 
Service to intervene in such matters. 
Scottish Widows  has outlined  the options available  to Mr O and directed him to an 
independent resource to find an IFA. It remains Mr Os choice whether he complies  with 
Scottish Widows  requirements or chooses  to transfer to a drawdown  arrangement  with a 
different provider that doesnt require he take financial advice in the circumstances.
I understand Mr O will be disappointed with my decision and dont underestimate his 
sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing his complaint to this service. But what I have to 
consider is whether Scottish Widows has done anything wrong. And based on what Ive 
seen I dont think I can reasonably conclude that it has. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1326666