K820x#14complaint
Mr H took out a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) with Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  from 2003  
to 2008 and he says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr H took out the following accounts with Lloyds:
Account Type Date of sale/change
Classic Fee free November 2001
Gold AVA Fee charged February 2003
Classic Fee free March 2008
Mr H says that he that he took out the GAVA because  he believed  he needed it to get a 
good credit  score and obtain overdrafts and lending from Lloyds. He also says that he didnt 
use many  of the benefits of the GAVA; and he had a medical condition  from before the time 
of sale that would have prevented him from claiming on the travel insurance  policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Lloyds mis-sold the account. Mr H disagrees so the case  
has come  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Hs complaint.
Id like to start by re-assuring Mr H that Ive seen his evidence  about his ill health  and taken 
this carefully into account.
Ill first consider whether Mr H knew he had a choice about taking out the GAVA; then 
whether Lloyds acted  correctly when making the sale. And Ill go on to consider Mr Hs 
specific complaints.
Lloyds has provided  evidence that Mr H had fee free bank  accounts  with overdrafts and 
loans before he took out the GAVA. So in my view he was aware he had a choice about  
whether to take out the GAVA  for a monthly  fee or not and he chose to do so.
Lloyds advised  Mr H to take the GAVA which was sold in a branch. So the requirement on 
Lloyds was to provide  sufficient information to Mr H to make  an informed choice about the 
GAVA and to check whether the policy was suitable  for him.
The GAVAs  benefits  include  worldwide travel  insurance, Sentinel card protection,  120 day 
purchase protection, £100 interest  free overdraft and better interest  rates for loans. Car 
breakdown cover was added in 2004.  The GAVA cost £8 per month.
I dont know exactly how the GAVA was presented to Mr H but Lloyds was trying to sell Mr H 
the account so I think its more likely  than not that Lloyds  explained  the benefits in some 
detail.  Lloyds provided Mr H with a booklet  about the GAVA,  and Mr H used some of the 
Ref: DRN17066862benefits, registering for example for the mobile phone  insurance, later making two claims; 
and using the car breakdown service  in early 2005.
So I think its more likely  than not that he knew enough about what he was buying  for him to 
decide that it was worth  his while to do so, and that if he knew  more  it wouldnt have put him 
off buying the GAVA.  
When he took out the Gold Service  AVA, Lloyds  needed to ensure it was suitable  for him. I 
dont know how well it did this, but Lloyds evidence shows  he was interested  in borrowing 
money, so I think he would have found the GAVAs reduced rates  for overdrafts and loans 
attractive. There was no aspect of the GAVAs benefits that he wasnt eligible for, and Mr H 
subsequently used some  of the product benefits. So I think  the GAVA  was suitable  for him.
But Mr H has said that he has two main  complaints. 
Firstly he says Lloyds misled him into thinking  that he would be in a better position to borrow  
from them if he took out the GAVA. 
I dont doubt Mr Hs honest recollections  but I think its unlikely the GAVA was presented to 
him in this way. I say this because this service  has no systemic evidence  that Lloyds did this, 
and Mr Hs ability to borrow would be based  on his credit score which is not related  to the 
type of bank account he held. I do think its possible that Mr H heard and read about the 
offering of lower interest rate overdrafts and loans  with the GAVA  and possibly placed his 
own interpretation on it. But overall Im not persuaded, as I would need to be to uphold  
Mr Hs complaint on this point, that its more likely  than not that Lloydss presentation of the 
information about the account or any lack of information about the account misled  Mr H in 
this way.
Mr Hs second complaint is that hed had a significant medical condition from before the sale 
in February 2003  that might have excluded  him from using the travel insurance. However the 
travel insurance didnt exclude  pre-existing  medical  conditions, it only required the applicant  
to declare them. Im aware of the nature of Mr Hs medical condition  which  he says became 
particularly serious  later in 2004  which was after the sale.  I also note that Lloyds has 
provided evidence  that Mr H travelled abroad  in March and September  2003.  He must have 
obtained travel insurance for that so I think its more likely than not he would have obtained  
cover either for free or for a small additional  premium if hed tried to use his GAVA travel 
insurance.
So Im not persuaded that Mr H would have  been  put off taking  out the GAVA  had he known 
fully about the travel  insurance or that it was unsuitable for him due to his illness.  
For completeness, Mr H complains that he asked  to downgrade his GAVA  several times 
before it was actually  done in 2008. But Ive seen Lloyds register of contact with Mr H and I 
can see no evidence that he did so, so I cant uphold his complaint on this point.
So overall, although I know this will be disappointing  for Mr H, I dont think that Lloyds mis-
sold the GAVA to him or that he lost out as a result of anything  Lloyds did or didnt do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN17066863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1706686