K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain Santander UK Plcs advice to fix the interest rate on their mortgage 
was unsuitable.  They also complain that Santander  refused to extend the term of one of their 
mortgage sub-accounts, in order  to align the term with the rest of the mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs J have a mortgage  with Santander, which  is made up of five sub-accounts. One 
of these sub-accounts (Ill call it sub-account one) was on interest-only and the term ended 
in May 2018.  Three of the remaining sub-accounts are on repayment terms, and one is on 
interest-only. These are all due to end in 2025. 
In 2016, Mr J contacted  Santander about fixing a new interest rate for the mortgage,  as the 
existing rate was due to end in April 2017. Santander  advised Mr and Mrs J to take out a 
five-year fixed rate on four of the sub-accounts,  but said sub-account  one would have to 
move onto their standard variable rate (SVR) once the existing rate expired,  as they had no 
rates available for a term with less than two years remaining. Mr and Mrs J agreed to those  
terms.
In 2017, Mr J spoke  to an independent  financial advisor (IFA). They contacted  Santander on 
his and Mrs Js behalf, about extending the term of sub-account one as it was due to expire  
soon. Santander  declined the application,  and Mr and Mrs J complained.  
Santander apologised for the unclear communication theyd given about the mortgage and 
the application for a term extension. But they confirmed that due to Mrs Js age, they 
wouldnt be willing to extend  the term of sub-account one.
Mr and Mrs J brought  their complaint to our service. They were unhappy that they were tied 
into a fixed interest rate until 2022  on the majority  of the sub-accounts,  and that Santander 
wouldnt extend the remaining sub-account so they would all expire at the same time. 
When they initially brought their complaint to us, Mr and Mrs J said they wanted all sub-
accounts to be aligned, and end in 2025 when they can look to repay the mortgage  through 
releasing equity  in their home. However, during  the time their complaints  been  with our 
service, their plans seem  to have changed, and their IFA has now asked that Santander 
allow Mr and Mrs J to repay their mortgage  in full before 2022 without incurring any Early 
Repayment Charges  (ERCs). He said Mr and Mrs J should never have been advised  to take 
out a fixed rate, considering their circumstances.
Our investigator looked into things and explained that he didnt think the advice Santander 
gave Mr and Mrs J in 2016  was unsuitable for them, based on the information theyd given 
Santander at the time. He did however recommend that Santander extend the term of sub-
account one, so that the whole mortgage balance would be due to be repaid at the same 
time, in 2025.
Santander agreed to extend the term of sub-account  one for two more years, until 2022. This 
would mean  the term would end once the five-year fixed rate expired on the remaining sub-
accounts, and Mr and Mrs J would  be free to repay  their mortgage without incurring any 
ERCs if they wanted to. They agreed  to put sub-account one on their forbearance extension 
interest rate of 2.99%,  rather than keep it on the SVR  and backdate  this to when the term 
ended in 2018. 
Ref: DRN19883472Mr and Mrs J didnt accept this, they felt the ERCs  should be waived regardless as they still 
believed the advice Santander gave  them  was unsuitable. The investigator wasnt  
persuaded to change  his opinion, and still felt Santander should extend the term until 2025.
As neither party accepted the investigators  recommendation,  the complaint was passed to 
me to make a decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 April 2020. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Was Santanders advice  unsuitable?
Mr and Mrs J had successfully applied for a fixed interest rate on all five sub-accounts in 
2014. This fixed rate ended in April 2017.
In December 2016, Mr J called Santander to discuss what  rates would be available to them 
once their existing rate expired. During  this conversation, he asked for advice about what  
product would be best for them.
Ive listened to the conversations  that Mr J had with Santander during the application.  Mr J 
initially asked for a seven-year  fixed  rate to be applied  to all five sub-accounts, as he wanted 
a longer period of certainty  for their monthly payments. Mrs J was already retired,  and Mr J 
had no plans to retire before the end of the mortgage term, so he didnt expect their 
circumstances to change.
Santander explained it wouldnt be possible to fix a rate on sub-account one, but Mr J said 
that wasnt a problem, as they were planning to repay that when  it expired  anyway.  
Santander said that if Mr and Mrs J took out a seven-year fixed rate, they would have a 
period at the end of the mortgage where theyd have to move  onto the SVR.  So they 
explained a five-year  rate may be better, and they can review their circumstances and 
potentially take out a new rate at that point in 2022. Mr J agreed to a five-year rate of 1.99%, 
and Santander  explained the ERCs  that would apply if any part of the mortgage would be 
repaid early  whilst the fixed rate was in place. 
At the end of the call Santander asked  if Mr and Mrs J had life insurance and home 
insurance in place. Mr J confirmed they did, but would be interested  in a home  insurance  
quote from Santander  which they said theyd arrange for him.
Overall, after listening  to the conversation, Im satisfied the advice Santander gave 
Mr and Mrs J - to take a fixed rate for five years - was suitable based on their needs at the 
time. Mr J was clear that he wanted long-term  certainty in payments, and that he planned to 
repay sub-account one in 2018 when  the term was due to end. There  was no indication  that 
he planned to repay any of the rest of the mortgage  early, or that their circumstances were 
due to change  before the rest of the mortgage was due to be repaid. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Js IFA feels that the advisor should  have asked  more  questions 
during the application. But considering  everything that was known to Mr J at the time  even 
Ref: DRN19883473if Santander had asked more questions, Im not persuaded the outcome would have been 
any different. 
Mr and Mrs J have since decided theyd rather repay the full mortgage balance  now using 
equity release, but that clearly wasnt their intention at the time the advice was given. 
Mr and Mrs Js IFA has said he thinks Santander should have discussed equity release with 
Mr J during the application. But this wasnt an application for further borrowing  Mr J just 
wanted to fix an interest  rate deal to his mortgage  which still had around nine years left to 
run until the end of its term. He said he already  had plans to repay sub-account one in 2018. 
So overall, considering everything both parties  have said, Im not persuaded Santanders  
advice to take out a fixed interest  rate product for five years  was unsuitable.
Santander made it clear  that ERCs would apply if the mortgage  was repaid early, and this 
information was also clearly set out in the mortgage offer and documents that were sent to 
Mr and Mrs J following  the conversation. As Im satisfied the advice Santander gave 
Mr and Mrs J in 2016 was suitable,  and the ERC information  was clear  Im not persuaded 
it would  be fair to ask Santander to waive the ERCs  so that Mr and Mrs J can repay  their 
mortgage early without incurring additional costs. 
Should Santander have extended  the mortgage  term?
Its unclear exactly what happened  when Mr and Mrs Js IFA asked for a term extension of 
sub-account one in 2017. But nevertheless,  Santander said they didnt communicate as well 
as they could have, and they initially refused to consider the extension  based on Mrs Js 
age.
However, since weve looked into the complaint, Santander have said they will extend the 
sub-account to 2022, to align it with the expiry of the fixed  interest  rate on the other sub-
accounts. Theyve also offered to put that sub-account on a forbearance rate of 2.99%, 
rather than the SVR. This rate doesnt  have any ERCs attached in case Mr and Mrs J do 
decide to repay the sub-account early.
Considering Mr and Mrs Js current circumstances,  Im persuaded it would be fair to extend 
the term of sub-account one. However,  whilst I understand Santanders reasons for offering 
the extension  to 2022  I think this should  be extended further  to meet  the terms of all the 
other sub-accounts  in 2025.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs J planned to repay sub-account one in 2018  using savings. The amount 
owed under this sub-account was just under  £13,000. Its unclear whats happened to the 
savings, but Mr and Mrs J no longer have  the ability to repay the outstanding lump  sum. 
Their IFA has recommended  they repay  the mortgage in full now,  using equity release, but it 
seems Mr and Mrs J are only willing to do this if Santander waive  the ERCs attached to their 
interest rate product.
Ive already said I dont  think  Santander should  waive the ERCs attached  to the mortgage as 
it stands  so its for Mr and Mrs J to decide  if they want to repay the mortgage now 
regardless, and incur these costs,  or wait until the fixed interest rate period is over in 2022. 
Either way, Mr and Mrs J dont have the ability to repay just the one outstanding sub-account 
thats due now.  And based on what we know about  their circumstances,  its unlikely theyll be 
in a position to redeem  one small part of the mortgage at any time, whilst keeping  the rest of 
the mortgage in place.  So I think,  taking into account all the circumstances, it would be in 
Mr and Mrs Js best interests for Santander  to align the terms of all the sub-accounts  so they 
Ref: DRN19883474can be repaid in full together  at the same  time,  using Mr and Mrs Js preferred repayment 
method  which is currently equity release. 
If the sub-account is only extended until 2022,  then Im concerned the same  problem may 
arise in two years time if Mr and Mrs Js plans change again. Whilst I understand using 
equity release to repay the full mortgage  balance is currently  their preferred option, their 
circumstances and preferences may change again over the next couple of years. And whilst 
its not entirely clear  how far theyve got with their enquiries into equity  release  at the 
moment, theres no guarantee theyll be able to secure this as a way of repaying the full 
mortgage balance  in 2022.
So to avoid  this uncertainty  for Mr and Mrs J, and provide them  with sufficient time to 
consider all their options, Im satisfied it would be fair for Santander to extend  the sub-
account to 2025 to align the terms of the mortgage.
Santander have  offered  to put the sub-account on their forbearance rate of 2.99%, and 
backdate this to 2018  when the term expired.  Santander have explained that this rate is 
available for customers  who have expired interest-only mortgages, and there are no other  
options available to them. However,  as Im persuaded  Santander should  have  formally  
extended the mortgage term when  it expired  in 2018, I dont think  this rate is applicable  here. 
I think if the mortgage term was extended  until 2025,  so for seven years,  then Mr and Mrs J 
would have been able to take a fixed rate product on this sub-account, as they did with the 
others. 
Santander have  provided a list of the interest rate products that Mr and Mrs J would  have 
been eligible for in May 2018  when  their term expired. Having reviewed  these rates, if given 
the option, I think its likely Mr and Mrs J would  have selected the rate that ended the closest  
to the rate they had in place for their other  sub-accounts, so they could have reviewed their 
options for the whole  mortgage  at the same time. Looking at the available  products, this 
would have meant taking out a rate of 2.39% until September  2021.  So I think this is the 
interest rate Santander should  apply  to the sub-account, and backdate  this to May 2018.  
Whilst this sub-account has been  on the standard variable rate since  April 2017, Im not 
persuaded the rate of 2.39% should be backdated  to that point, as at the time when Mr J 
was reviewing the options for the mortgage,  he intended to pay off this sub-account when it 
was due to end. So I dont think he would have taken  a fixed  rate product at that point based 
on what he said during  his conversation with the advisor.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision, disagreeing with the outcome Id 
reached.
Mr and Mrs Js representative said, in summary:
The conversations  between Santander  and Mr J fell below the standards  expected of 
professional advice, as Santander  failed to consider all available  options with Mr and 
Mrs Js best outcomes in mind;
Not enough  consideration was given to Mr and Mrs Js stage of life and what  could 
have happened  if Mr J passed away early.
Santander said, in summary:
Ref: DRN19883475It is a regulatory requirement to establish  a repayment strategy for the mortgage, and 
theres no guarantee Mr and Mrs J will be able to secure a full repayment  of the 
mortgage balance  in the future;
To extend the mortgage they will require Mr and Mrs J to sign a sale of property 
declaration form as a suitable repayment strategy. Without this they wouldnt have 
been able to extend the mortgage and offer Mr and Mrs J an interest rate product;
If a suitable repayment strategy  is not offered, extending the term will constitute 
forbearance and so the forbearance  rate should  be offered and re-visited in 2022.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the most recent 
submissions provided by both parties, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs J still feel the advice  Santander gave them  to fix a five-year interest  
rate was unsuitable  for them. But Ive already explained why Im satisfied the advice was 
suitable based on what was known by all parties at the time. Mr and Mrs J havent  said 
anything new here which makes me think differently  now, so my position on this point 
remains unchanged. Im satisfied  the advice Santander gave Mr and Mrs J in 2016 was 
suitable.
Santander have  explained theyre unable to extend the mortgage term of sub-account  one 
formally without establishing a repayment  strategy  as this is a regulatory requirement. The 
regulator requires  lenders  to ensure theyre  lending responsibly, and part of this means 
ensuring that the funds they lend to borrowers  can be repaid. For interest-only  mortgages in 
particular, the rules do say that lenders need to ensure  theres a suitable  repayment strategy 
in place to repay the balance at the end of the term. So I understand why Santander want 
some reassurance, and in this case, through a signed sale of property form, about how this 
mortgage will be repaid.
But the rules also allow some flexibility for mortgages like Mr and Mrs Js, as their mortgage 
was taken out before the rules changed in 2014.  So Santander are able to extend  the term, 
without satisfying the requirements around repayment strategies set out in the rules, if its in 
the borrowers best interests to do so. Im still satisfied Mr and Mrs Js overall circumstances 
mean that extending  sub-account one until 2025  will be in their best interests. And I dont  
think its fair for Santander  to make doing  so conditional on them signing a form agreeing to 
sell their property  when  thats not currently how they intend to repay  the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Js total interest only borrowing is around £58,000. The sub-account  thats 
expired is just under £13,000  of this, and the rest of the mortgage balance  is due to be 
repaid in 2025. Mr and Mrs Js intended  repayment strategy is to release the equity in their 
home. This will have to be done  in one transaction and can only happen if all existing 
charges on the property  have been  removed. Due to Mr and Mrs Js circumstances, they 
dont have the money to repay  the £13,000 now, nor are they likely to be able to repay this 
separately before they repay the whole balance.
I understand that by extending the sub-account to 2022, Mr and Mrs J will be able to repay 
the whole  mortgage without incurring  any additional costs. But considering the majority of 
the mortgage balance doesnt  expire  until 2025, I dont think  it would  be fair to put them in 
the position where they may feel they need to repay the whole balance before they need to  
Ref: DRN19883476when only a small proportion of it has expired. Extending the term of sub-account  one to 
2025 without establishing a suitable  repayment strategy presents no further risk to the bank 
 as the rest of the interest only borrowing is due to expire in 2025  anyway. 
Given the overall circumstances here Im satisfied that extending sub-account  one until 2025 
in line with the rest of the mortgage balance is the fairest outcome. Im not persuaded that 
Santander are unable to do this without  agreeing  an acceptable repayment strategy, and as 
a result Im satisfied Mr and Mrs J should have  been able to apply for an interest  rate 
product on this sub-account. 
I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs J that theyll need to 
ensure theyre  able to repay  the mortgage balance in full when the term ends  in 2025. And 
Id expect Mr and Mrs J and Santander to maintain regular dialogue over the coming years 
to discuss the progress of their plans.
Neither party have  said anything that changes  my decision on what  Santander should do to 
put things right here. So Im still satisfied that Santander should:
Extend the term of the expired mortgage sub-account to align it with the remaining 
sub-accounts due to expire in 2025  without requiring Mr and Mrs J to sign a sale of 
property form. 
Apply Santanders fixed interest  rate of 2.39% to the expired mortgage sub-account 
until September 2021.
Backdate this interest rate as if it had applied  to the sub-account  since the term 
ended in 2018.
Its for Mr and Mrs J to decide if theyd rather have the refund in overpayments  paid 
directly to them in cash (with  the addition of 8% simple  interest  per year* from the 
date each payment  was made  until the date of settlement), or if theyd rather this 
amount was taken  off the mortgage  balance. Santander UK Plc should  then apply the 
refund accordingly.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Santander UK Plc considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and 
Mrs J how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing this if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1988347