K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of M, a limited company of which  he is the director, that Metro 
Bank PLC sent information about  the business  to an incorrect address. 
background
In April 2018, Metro  Bank  needed to send some  information to a third party  bank relating to a 
mortgage M has. Mr K subsequently let Metro Bank know that his tenant, rather than the 
third party bank, had received  that letter. Mr K was unhappy with this and considered  it to be 
a serious breach of data.
Metro Bank  upheld Ms complaint as it agreed that the letter had been sent to the wrong 
address. It apologised for the error and offered £150  in recognition  of any inconvenience 
caused. Mr K wasnt happy with this and brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He agreed that information about M had been 
sent to the wrong address, but he thought that Metro Banks  offer of £150 was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint. Mr K responded to the view to say he wasnt happy  with the way the 
investigator had looked  at the complaint  but he didnt give any more information  as to why 
he wasnt happy. But he did then go on to say that there had been another  incident of post 
about M being  sent to the tenants address.
Because Mr K didnt  agree,  the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision 
on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Theres no dispute that in April 2018 Metro  Bank  sent information about M to the wrong 
address. Metro Bank says the letter  related to a mortgaged property, owned by M which is 
the one where  the tenant in question lives. And the employee who created the letter sent it to 
the mortgaged  property rather than to the bank that held the mortgage . 
The letter was addressed to the third party mortgage  company. And confirmed that M had an 
account with Metro Bank, and a general idea of what M could do with the account.  The letter 
also confirmed that M had a relationship  with the third party mortgage company. 
Because the facts of the case arent  in dispute,  I now need to decide if Metro Bank has done  
enough to put things  right for M. 
Ive seen a copy  of the letter Ive referred to. I can understand why Mr K was concerned that 
this was sent to an address where his tenant resides   as anyone  would be if they thought  
that their personal or business information had been disclosed to a third party. But given the 
content of the letter,  this isnt information that could readily be misused.  So while agree that 
Metro Bank  should  have  taken more care in sending the letter to the intended recipient, I 
think the impact on M has been  minimal.  
Ref: DRN11075822My main  concern would be that Metro  Bank  holds the wrong address details for M. But Im 
satisfied from the information Ive seen  that Metro  Bank has the correct  details.  And I think  it 
likely the mistake has arisen from a result  of human error (and not a problem  with its 
systems). So I dont see any reason why information about M would be sent to the wrong 
recipient in the future.
I understand Mr K has said that this situation has occurred  again, but this time with more  
sensitive information.  Metro Bank has accepted  that this could have happened.  But neither 
Mr K nor Metro Bank has a copy of this second  letter  and without knowing the content I 
dont think I can safely come  to a conclusion on this point
So Im not going to tell Metro Bank to pay more to M than what it has already  offered.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1107582