K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs I says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2004 Mrs I took out PPI with a credit  card during a branch meeting. The policy  was 
designed to protect  Mrs Is credit card payments in the event she couldnt work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policys  basic cost was 78 pence for every  £100 Mrs I owed on the card.  And it would 
pay out a monthly  benefit of 10% of what was owed for up to 12 months.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought it likely BoS made  it 
clear Mrs I had a choice about  PPI. And there was nothing to suggest the policy was wrong 
or unsuitable for her.
They went  on to say that BoS had offered to pay back some of what  Mrs I paid for PPI as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Because Mrs I, through her representative,  disagrees with the adjudicators conclusions, the 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs I didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
BoS has provided a copy of Mrs Is credit  card application. And I can see here there is a 
cross marked in the PPI section of the application to indicate  she wanted to take it out. 
Im mindful that the cross is printed  on the form and not handwritten. But based  on what  
we know of BoS sales process at the time,  Mrs I wouldve likely been asked by the 
adviser if she wanted PPI and her answer wouldve been reflected in the printed form.
On the basis that Ive not seen enough to persuade me that something different 
happened in Mrs Is case  and because she signed  the overall credit card application  I 
think she chose to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs I so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover   for 
example those relating to existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
circumstances - and despite her sick pay she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Ref: DRN15225512I can see Mrs I says she had an insurance policy through work, which she says meant  
she didnt need  PPI. But shes also said she cant remember the exact terms of the 
cover. So I cant say the existence of this policy made PPI unsuitable for her.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs I about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think Mrs I has lost out as a result  of having PPI. So BoS doesnt need to 
refund everything  Mrs I paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs I back  some of 
the cost of the PPI and I understand it has already paid this to Mrs I. I dont think  it needs to 
do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1522551