K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Society of Lloyds underwriters  mishandled his claim for legal expenses 
insurance, resulting  in him obtaining  a less favourable settlement in court.
The policy is underwritten by certain  underwriters at the Society  of Lloyds,  and references  to 
the underwriters in this decision  should  be taken as also including the acts or omissions  of 
their intermediaries and agents.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January  2019,  which  forms part of this 
final decision. 
I said that I didnt think  it was reasonable for the underwriters to rely on their panel solicitors  
assessment regarding recoverability of damages, as I thought  they ought to have recognised  
that it was patently  flawed, given that there was no consideration  of the defendant 
management companys insurance position.  But while  I didnt think  it was reasonable for the 
underwriters to decline the claim on the basis  of recoverability alone, I concluded that there 
was not enough evidence  to suggest that Mr Ws claim shouldve ultimately been covered, 
particularly given that he had to pay more  in damages than he was awarded.
So, due to the way in which the claim was handled,  I said I intended asking the underwriters  
to pay £750 compensation to Mr W. But I didnt think it would be fair to ask them to cover his 
reasonable legal costs  given that there was little evidence to suggest the claim shouldve 
been covered.  
The underwriters response  
The underwriters disagreed, as they felt it was beyond the remit of this service to consider  
the quality of the legal advice provided by their panel solicitors, which was better considered  
by the Legal Ombudsman. They say it was their responsibility  to appoint a solicitor, and that 
they were entitled  to rely on the advice provided  by that solicitor.
Mr Ws response
Mr W said he felt the £750 award  to be adequate  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience suffered as a result of the underwriters handling of his claim. But he also said:
A similar award should be made in recognition of the underwriters failure to co-
operate with him and this service throughout the duration of this complaint;
The fact that the judge  failed to follow the law is most  likely  down to Mr Ws inexpert 
way of presenting  arguments rather than his claim having  insufficient prospects;
The counterclaim is irrelevant, as it was not in place at the time Mr W made  his claim 
to the underwriters;
All amounts  were recovered and, in the circumstances, the action was as near to 
complete success as a litigant could hope  for;
With regards to the proportionality principles  under the Civil Procedure Rules, no 
judge at any hearing  determined that the costs  were unreasonable or 
disproportionate, and previous cases have  been heard where the costs  have far 
outweighed the damages;
Ref: DRN12687162It is not right that a policyholder would  have to pay for a legal opinion themselves in 
order to challenge  a negative legal assessment of his claim. And in the absence  of 
any further evidence,  it must be the case that there was every  possible prospect of 
success.
Mr W feels that account should be taken of the fact that this is his second  complaint against 
the underwriters about legal  expenses, and argues that his case should be fully upheld  with 
total compensation of around  £3,000, plus his reasonable costs.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  the most recent  
submissions provided by both parties  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so, the outcome as set out in my 
provisional decision remains the same, so Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Ws complaint for 
the same  reasons. But I will also respond to both parties recent submissions.
quality of legal advice
The underwriters submit  that it is beyond the remit of this service  to comment on the quality 
and content of the legal advice provided  by their panel solicitors  and that such scrutiny of the 
legal assessment provided can only be properly  carried out by the Legal Ombudsman.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, this service  generally doesnt consider the quality of 
legal advice provided by a law firm. We are not acting as legal experts,  and neither is the 
insurer. So we would  generally consider it reasonable for an insurer  to rely on the advice of 
legal professionals. And where there are disputes of legal  opinion,  this is a matter that would 
indeed typically be referred to the Legal  Ombudsman. But what  this service  can consider is 
the acts or omissions of the insurer in carrying out regulated insurance activities, including 
whether it was fair and reasonable for them to rely on any such  expert advice. And in 
circumstances where  a legal assessment is so obviously  flawed that even a lay person could 
identify it as such, it is well within the remit of this service to conclude that an insurer ought 
to have questioned it or sought a second  opinion (on the basis  that it shouldve  been evident 
to a competent and diligent insurer that it was patently wrong).
In my provisional decision,  I concluded  that there  was an obvious flaw in the panel solicitors 
legal assessment relating to recoverability, as Mr W had expressly told the solicitors that the 
management company  had appropriate  insurance in place. But there  was no evidence  of 
any enquiries being made by the solicitors  into the management companys insurance  
position when  they decided that there  were no prospects of recoverability in Mr Ws case.  
Given that the underwriters are in the business  of insurance themselves and have a great 
deal of industry knowledge, I said I thought  they shouldve recognised that the solicitors 
assessment was patently flawed. Indeed, Mr W (as a lay person himself)  pointed out this 
oversight when challenging the assessment, but no further enquiries were made, and Ive 
not been provided with any further evidence to suggest that the management companys 
insurance position was ever considered.  So the reasoning set out in my provisional decision 
remains the same, as I think  it was unreasonable for the underwriters to decline Mr Ws 
claim in reliance of this particular legal assessment  given the circumstances present. 
compensation
Ref: DRN12687163Mr W said he is willing to accept the £750 award in relation to the underwriters failing 
outlined above.  But he feels further compensation should be paid in recognition of the 
underwriters failure to co-operate with him and this service  throughout  the duration of this 
complaint.
I appreciate that the underwriters lack of co-operation with Mr W has caused him a certain 
level of distress and inconvenience.  And I can assure him that I have taken this into account 
when considering the overall award  of £750  compensation.  But an award for distress  and 
inconvenience is not designed to be punitive in nature.  Only the regulator  i.e. the Financial 
Conduct Authority   can fine authorised firms  for failing to adhere to regulatory principles, 
including those relating to the resolution  of disputes.  So I will not be asking the underwriters  
to pay any further  compensation for this, as I consider £750 to be fair for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision.
legal costs
In my provisional decision,  I concluded  that there  was not enough evidence to suggest that 
Mr Ws claim shouldve  ultimately been  covered, given  that he had to pay more in damages  
than he was awarded. So I didnt intend  asking the underwriters to cover his legal costs.
But Mr W argues  that the counterclaim  made against him should not be taken into account,  
as it had not been made at the time he submitted  his claim for legal expenses  to the 
underwriters. I appreciate  that may be the case,  but it doesnt  change the fact that there  
were in fact grounds  for a counterclaim to be made against Mr W in this dispute; and it cant  
be ignored that the counterclaim  ultimately succeeded. 
The outcome of Mr W paying more in damages  than he was awarded suggests  that any 
prospects assessment most likely wouldnt have been in his favour. Its important to 
appreciate that legal expenses insurers arent  fixed forever with their initial  prospects 
assessment. If material facts change  such as new evidence,  new defences or a risky 
counterclaim  they can take that into consideration when  deciding whether or not to 
continue funding the action. Indeed, thats what any prudent but uninsured litigant would  do. 
So, I still havent seen  enough evidence to persuade  me that all the requirements of cover  
under the policy  had been met, such that Mr Ws claim shouldve  been covered.
Mr W submits that the outcome of his case was largely a product of his inexpert way of 
presenting arguments  and the judges failure  to follow the law, rather  than his claim having 
insufficient prospects.  But as I set out in my provisional decision, I find this argument to be 
largely speculative  and lacking in any contemporaneous evidence.  And the consideration of 
a court  judgment  falls outside the remit of this service.  So this does not change  the 
conclusions reached  in my provisional decision.
I also understand what Mr W has said with regards to proportionality, and I accept  that it is 
indeed possible for a litigant to bring a claim that may cost more to pursue than is available  
in potential damages. But if such a litigant wanted to fund a disproportionate  action, that is 
their prerogative (assuming the court doesnt strike  out the proceedings on any of the 
various grounds it has to manage cases and court time effectively, e.g. abuse of process, 
which can include disproportionality  Sullivan v Bristol Film Studios Ltd [2012] EWCA Civ 
570, etc). An insurer,  on the other hand , cannot  fairly be expected to provide funding  for 
disproportionate claims on a litigants behalf.    
Ref: DRN12687164Mr W also doesnt think its fair that a policyholder would have to pay for a legal opinion 
themselves in order to challenge a negative legal assessment of their claim. But it is a well-
established principle  that it is for the policyholder to prove they have a claim and meet  the 
various requirements of cover under the policy. And any costs  that might  be incurred in the 
course of proving that there is in fact a valid claim are not typically  the responsibility  of the 
insurer. So where  a claim is declined based on a negative prospects assessment  which  is 
disputed by the policyholder  it will be for the policyholder to produce independent evidence 
from a suitably qualified  lawyer to support their view on the prospects of success.  As it 
stands, Mr W did not provide any alternative legal assessment of his claims in any event, so 
there is no loss to consider in this respect.
Mr W argues that he should be awarded  similar compensation to that awarded  by the 
ombudsman in his previous case against the underwriters. And he also feels  that I should 
take into account the fact that this is his second  complaint  brought against the underwriters 
in relation to legal expenses. But the outcome of each complaint considered by this service  
will turn on the particular facts of that case,  as each case is decided  on its own individual  
merits to determine  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances presented. The 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not bound by a court-like doctrine of precedence, so 
ombudsmen are not obliged to follow previous decisions (albeit we strive to be as consistent  
as reasonably possible when faced with similar facts and evidence). But an award of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  is ultimately a matter of ombudsman  
discretion. And for the reasons Ive already explained, I consider £750 to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances, and the reasoning set out in my provisional  decision 
remains unchanged in this regard.
As I commented previously, I hope Mr W will accept  this as a fair and reasonable resolution 
of the dispute.  But for the avoidance of doubt, I will reiterate that that, if he accepts the final 
decision, it will be legally binding on both parties  so he wouldnt then be able to take legal 
action against  the underwriters over any of the issues complained of. But if he chooses to 
reject it, his legal  rights  will remain intact, although there  will be no obligation on the 
underwriters to pay any of the compensation as directed by this final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I direct the underwriters, through  the Society of Lloyds,  to 
pay Mr W £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience within  28 days  of receiving  his 
acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12687165COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that Society of Lloyds underwriters  mishandled  his claim for legal expenses 
insurance, resulting  in him obtaining a less favourable  settlement in court.
The policy is underwritten by certain underwriters at the Society of Lloyds, and references to the 
underwriters in this decision should be taken as also including the acts or omissions of their 
intermediaries and agents.
background
Mr W has been involved  in an ongoing dispute with the freehold management company of a block of 
flats, of which Mr W is a leaseholder. A dispute initially arose between  the two parties  in 2007 due to a 
leaking roof in the property. This resulted in Mr W taking the management company  to court in 
November 2013, where he was awarded damages. Mr W complained that the underwriters  didnt 
cover his claim for legal  expenses in pursuit of the claim,  which was considered  by this service  in a 
previous complaint. The ombudsman upheld Mr Ws complaint in September 2015, and directed  the 
underwriters to cover the reasonable legal costs hed incurred, along  with £3,000 compensation.
While Mr Ws previous complaint was being considered by this service, he submitted another claim  to 
the underwriters,  as he also wanted to pursue the management company for breach of covenant in 
failing to keep his roof in tenantable repair.  Mr W also submitted a nuisance claim  against another  
leaseholder in a neighbouring property, and the underwriters referred  both matters to their panel 
solicitors for a legal assessment in or around May 2015.
The panel solicitors issued their assessment on 9 June 2015,  where they reported concerns over the 
management company having sufficient  financial means to potentially satisfy Mr Ws claim, and 
concluded that it didnt have sufficient prospects of recoverability as required by the policy terms and 
conditions. With regards to Mr Ws nuisance claim,  they didnt consider that it had sufficient  prospects  
of success due to a lack of expert evidence. So they considered that neither heads of claim were 
covered under the policy.
As he did when his previous claim  was rejected, Mr W sought to pursue the matter himself in court 
without legal  representation. He says he didnt  present the nuisance claim  to the court, but he did 
bring his case  against the management company.  The court awarded  Mr W £1,944.15 on 22 June 
2017, but also awarded £4,656.25 to the management company on a counterclaim  meaning that Mr 
W was ordered  to pay the balance of £2,712.10.  
Mr W says he has taken  his management company to court three times so far, and has been awarded 
around £9,000 in total. As he has had a certain degree of success in court, Mr W contends that this is 
sufficient evidence  to demonstrate his recent claim  had merit, so he complained about the 
underwriters refusal to provide cover under his legal expenses policy. Mr W submits that, had he 
been represented by a solicitor or barrister,  the court wouldve awarded  him a significant  amount 
more as he believes the judge failed to follow the proper authority. So he would  like the underwriters 
to pay compensation for failing to fund his representation; and also address the nuisance  claim which 
they said had no prospects  of success. 
The underwriters said that, despite the outcome of Mr Ws court  case, they were entitled to rely on the 
evidence and advice provided at the time the claim  was assessed. But they said that Mr W only may 
have the right to refer his complaint to this service, as they believed it to be a continuation/extension 
of his original  complaint that had already  had an ombudsmans decision  so they subsequently didnt 
provide any further submissions when his most recent complaint was referred to this service.
Our investigator considered that the points of complaint  Mr W had raised on this occasion were 
separate and distinct from the case previously considered  by the ombudsman in September 2015,  as 
Ref: DRN12687166it concerned a different claim  that resulted in further court  proceedings.  But the investigator did not 
uphold the complaint, despite having not been provided with full submissions  from the underwriters. 
She considered  the evidence she had to be enough  to conclude that they hadnt acted  unfairly by 
refusing to cover Mr Ws recent  claim, and found that they were  entitled to rely on the advice of panel 
solicitors. 
Mr W disagreed, and in response to the investigators  view said:
The underwriters failed to provide their submissions to this service, which  should preclude  
any findings in their favour in line with the Civil Procedure Rules regarding failure to disclose 
documents;
The solicitors assessment regarding prospects of recoverability and success was incorrect;
The non-panel rates offered by the policy  are unreasonable;
The outcome of his case wouldve  been more  favourable if hed been provided  with legal 
representation
As no resolution could be agreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend  to uphold it in part.
First, I do consider that this is a new complaint that Mr W is entitled to bring.  The previous 
ombudsmans decision was concerned with a legal expenses claim regarding  Mr Ws leaking roof  
which was wrongly rejected  by the underwriters  on the basis that the policy  did not cover defence 
costs  and was heard by the court in November  2013.
Mr Ws current dispute  concerns a separate cause of action/claim made  in April 2015 for breach  of 
covenant and nuisance,  which was declined by the underwriters on the basis of there  being no 
prospects of recoverability  or success (respectively). So I do not consider this to be a continuation of 
the original  insurance  claim or complaint made that was previously brought  to this service  and 
decided in September 2015. So this isnt a complaint to dismiss without considering its merits under 
our rules, namely,  DISP Rules 3.3.4A  and 3.3.4B of the Financial Conduct  Authority Handbook, i.e. on 
the grounds that it would seriously impair  our effective operation because:
the subject matter  of the complaint has previously been considered  or excluded under the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  (unless material new evidence which the Ombudsman 
considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available  to the 
complainant)
However, Mr W has also raised  concerns that do relate to the previous decision,  such  as whether  it 
was reasonable for the underwriters to use a costs  draughtsman to determine what costs had been 
incurred. But these issues that Mr W has since raised  relate  to the enforcement of an ombudsmans  
decision, which is a matter  for the courts and is not something I will be commenting on within this 
decision. Theres no material new evidence  relating  to the previous complaint  that wasnt available at 
the time or is likely to affect the outcome. So if Mr W does not feel that the underwriters  have 
complied with the previous decision, he will need to pursue  this himself  in court under section 229 and 
Part III, Sch. 17 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Turning now to the subject  matter of this decision,  Mr W submits that his success  in court in June 
2017 demonstrates that his claim was unfairly  declined  by the underwriters, which has caused him 
financial loss through having to pursue the claim  himself, and has resulted  in a less favourable 
settlement as a result  of him not being legally represented.
Ref: DRN12687167Mr Ws policy terms and conditions  states that his insurance will pay costs and expensesin order to 
pursue a civil claimwhere the date of occurrence is within the period of insurance, the premium has 
been paid and we deem that there are good prospects  of success. 
It is typical of legal expenses insurance policies to insist  upon reasonable prospects of success before 
a claim will be indemnified, as an insurer wouldnt  be expected  to fund a claim thats not likely  to 
succeed. And where the claim involves a potential monetary award in damages,  succeeding in court 
is not generally enough on its own, as there also needs to be a good chance of actually recovering 
the amount claimed in damages from the defendant.  From  a fairness  standpoint, I wouldnt expect  an 
insurer to pay more  in costs than the amount the policyholder stands  to gain from any legal action.  
Thats consistent with the proportionality principles that under the Civil Procedure Rules. 
In terms of the underwriters  refusal  to cover Mr Ws nuisance claim, the panel  solicitors advised that it 
didnt have sufficient prospects of success. Mr W didnt agree, but as it stands, I havent seen that Mr 
W submitted a more  favourable assessment  other than his own opinion  to show that there were 
sufficient prospects of success. So theres currently no basis on which to conclude that the 
underwriters were wrong to rely on the advice  of the panel solicitors and deny  the claim, as Mr Ws 
opinion cant reasonably outweigh  the solicitors;  for example, even where a policyholder  is himself 
legally qualified, he cant act as an independent expert in his own cause. 
With regards to Mr Ws most recent case against  the management company,  the panel  solicitors said 
that this claim didnt have sufficient prospects of recoverability. They  based their assessment on the 
management companys micro-entity account filed at Companies House within the relevant period. 
This showed that the companys net worth was £240  at the time, and that there was a County Court 
Judgment recorded against  the company  for over £12,000, along with a footnote stating that the 
companys assets were  not in a financial  position to clear their current debt. So the solicitors advised  
that the claim did not enjoy prospects of recovery in excess of 51%, meaning  that Mr Ws claim  didnt 
meet the requirements of good prospects of success as required by the policy.
Mr W has complained about the quality of the legal  assessment provided  by the panel  solicitors,  as he 
says it was based on information  from Companies  House, which  he believes is flawed for various 
reasons. Mr W also says the management company was insured against action from leaseholders, 
which he told the panel solicitors, but says they continued to maintain that there were no prospects  of 
recoverability.
In terms of the legal assessment, the remit of this service extends to assessing  the underwriters 
handling of the claim in light of the policy terms and good industry  practice to determine whether they 
fulfilled their obligations  reasonably, and dealt with the claim fairly. Were  unable to consider the 
quality of the legal advice provided by a law firm and would generally consider it reasonable for an 
insurer to rely on such advice unless  it can be established that the assessment is patently  wrong or 
flawed in some way that ought reasonably to be evident to a competent and diligent insurer. 
I can see that Mr W challenged the solicitors  assessment  regarding  the prospects of recoverability on 
16 June 2015, when he told them that the company  is insured against its losses, as you well know. If 
the management  company  was in fact covered by professional indemnity insurance, as Mr W 
maintains, then it would mean that hed most likely be able to recover his costs  if successful in court 
despite the indigence of the defendant.  But does this mean that the panel solicitors assessment is 
patently wrong, such that the underwriters shouldnt  have relied on it?
First, I havent  seen  any evidence to suggest that the panel solicitors have ever considered  the 
management companys insurance position  as this isnt mentioned in their initial prospects analysis  
 and neither  have I seen any correspondence or further enquiries relating to this following Mr Ws 
objection to the assessment. And its arguable that a prudent,  careful solicitor would generally make 
such enquiries in order to make an informed decision on whether and how to litigate.  Indeed,  the 
courts have the power under the Civil Procedure Rules to order the disclosure of a defendants 
insurance where there are concerns about  their ability  to meet claims or pay costs: see, for example, 
the high court case of XYZ v Various [2013]  EWHC 3643. 
Ref: DRN12687168So its reasonable to expect that a solicitor  would  at least enquire as to whether  there is any 
professional indemnity insurance available  if there are concerns about  recoverability.  And I find it 
surprising that there was no mention of insurance  in the initial prospects assessment  but even  more 
so after Mr W made it clear that the management company held appropriate insurance. But given that 
the underwriters  are in the business of insurance  and have  a great deal of industry  knowledge,  I think 
they ought  to have recognised that the solicitors  lack of enquiries  surrounding insurance could cast 
doubt on the assessment regarding recoverability. So I dont think  it was reasonable for them  to rely 
on it in order to decline Mr Ws claim against the management company, as I consider it to be patently  
flawed for the reasons outlined above. 
It appears that the solicitors didnt go on to consider whether Mr W would likely win his case. But Mr 
W further  submits that, because his claim was successful when he pursued it himself, that this is 
enough to show his claim had merit and shouldve  been covered. I acknowledge that Mr W had a 
degree of success in court,  but I cant ignore that this was somewhat of a Pyrrhic victory given that he 
had to pay more in damages to the management company than he was awarded. So I dont think  this 
is enough to show that Mr Ws claim shouldve ultimately been funded. 
Mr W submits that he wouldve had a more favourable outcome in court if hed been professionally 
represented as he believes  the judge failed to follow the proper authority. It falls outside the remit of 
this service to comment on the outcome reached by the judge. But I understand that the courts,  when 
faced with an unrepresented  litigant, will typically  strive to create a level playing field and ensure  there 
is no less favourable outcome for a claimant simply  because they were not represented  by legal 
professionals. So I consider Mr Ws argument to be largely speculative, and Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence to suggest he wouldve been awarded  more if represented. 
Overall, I appreciate that the underwriters failed  to properly consider  the finances of the management 
company, and that this was not the correct basis on which to deny Mr Ws claim. But as outlined 
above, I havent  seen enough to persuade me that Mr Ws claim shouldve  ultimately been covered 
even if there were sufficient prospects of recoverability.  So I dont consider that the underwriters  
should cover  Mr Ws reasonable  costs. But I do think he should be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  as a result of the failing, as he had to spend time and effort arguing the point 
and, moreover, was denied the opportunity  of a proper prospects assessment on the merits. I 
consider an award of £750 to be reasonable  compensation in the circumstances, as its clear  that the 
underwriters failing has had a significant impact on his time, as well as causing  a significant  amount 
of stress  and emotional harm.
Mr W has also complained that the non-panel  rates offered by the underwriters are unreasonable. But 
given that theres insufficient evidence to suggest that either of his claims shouldve ultimately been 
covered, I neednt consider  the rates  at which the insurer may or may not have potentially  offered, as 
Im only looking at that which  has actually  happened to determine whether its fair and reasonable.  
Our role is to redress actual  losses, not hypothetical ones or points of general principle. 
Finally, Mr W submits that the underwriters lack of response to his most  recent complaint should 
exclude any findings in their favour, and he has pointed towards the Civil Procedure Rules  which  he 
argues we as a service  are bound to follow  that preclude a party  from relying  on any documents  
which theyve failed to disclose. But the Civil Procedure Rules are applicable  to the formal  process of 
a court. They do not apply to our investigation process which is meant as an informal alternative to 
the court,  and the rules in which this service  is governed can be instead be found  within the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 and the DISP  Rules set out in the Financial  Conduct Authority  
Handbook.
DISP Rule 3.5.9(3), for example, sets out that The Ombudsman  mayreach a decision  on the basis 
of what  has been supplied and take account of the failure  by a party  to provide information  requested. 
So Im only required to take account of the failure  by a party  to provide  information  it does not lead 
to an automatic finding in favour of the other party. And in this case, Im satisfied that Im able to reach  
a fair decision  on the basis of the evidence  so far supplied.
Ref: DRN12687169my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to direct the underwriters, through the Society of Lloyds, to 
pay Mr W £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I hope Mr W and the underwriters will accept this as a fair and reasonable resolution  of the dispute. 
But for the avoidance of doubt, I should clarify  that, if Mr W accepts a final decision, it will be legally 
binding on both parties  so he wouldnt then be able to take legal action  against the underwriters 
over any of the issues complained of. 
Ref: DRN1268716