K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Sainsburys Bank  Plc have continued to pursue him for a debt despite 
acknowledging that he was a victim  of identity theft, and have failed to remove adverse 
entries on his credit  file related to the debt. 
background
In July 2017 a credit  card account  was opened  in Mr Ts name with Sainsburys Bank. 
Mr T was away travelling  from December 2016  to October 2017.  Hed arranged  for his mail 
to be forwarded  to his sisters house.  He first became aware  of the account  in early 
September 2017 when a statement was received showing a balance of around £6,000. 
Over the next few months Mr T spoke to various departments within  Sainsburys repeatedly. 
On 10 November he wrote to the bank providing information it had requested and asking it to 
stop sending him demands for payment.  But he continued to receive these. 
In mid-December 2017 Mr T sent a lengthy letter of complaint to Sainsburys,  setting out the 
background and asking  again that it cease  sending demands,  that it acknowledge he didnt 
owe it any money and for any adverse entries to be removed from his credit  file. 
In late January Mr T contacted the bank as he hadnt had a reply to his December letter. A 
customer service  representative spoke to Mr T on 29 January. The banks notes said:
I explained  to customer about  CIFAS  and agreed £20 to cover  registration costs for this. 
£80 D&I also offered  for our service.
I explained fraud would take care of the balance and his cr file but I would monitor  the a/c to
ensure all this is completed and that fraud write  to him as advised.
Sainsburys also sent its written response to the complaint on 29 January. It said it hadnt 
received his letters of 10 November and 15 December but didnt dispute hed sent them  as 
its fraud department  had recently relocated. But it now had the letters and had sent them to 
its fraud department  who would  write  to him confirming action by 2 February 2018. It 
enclosed a cheque  for £100 compensation. This included £20 for Mr T to register with 
CIFAS.
However Mr T continued to be chased for the credit card debt, including  by a debt collection 
agency. After more exchanges with the bank in an effort to sort it out, in mid-April 2018 Mr T 
complained to us.
Our investigator spent  several months  endeavouring to get a response from Sainsburys as 
to why the actions  hadnt  yet been  taken. Sainsburys said it was having issues getting the 
file back from the debt collectors. In the meantime  demands and then statements continued 
to be sent to Mr T. 
On 9 August  2018 Sainsburys wrote to Mr T accepting  that the account had been  opened 
fraudulently in his name. It said that the account  would be closed and it would update the 
information held at credit reference agencies.
Ref: DRN19598022Shortly after that our investigator  gave  his view on the complaint. He said Mr T had 
experienced nine months  of delay and uncertainty. Hed been distressed by the bank not 
doing what it said it would and by the comments on his credit file. Mr T had told us hed had 
to defer  some  investment opportunities and found  it necessary to subscribe to a credit 
reference agencys reports at £14.99 a month. He thought the bank should pay Mr T £650 
compensation, and remove  all reference to the account on Mr Ts credit files. 
Sainsburys said it was happy to pay Mr Ts credit reference agencies  expenses but taking 
into account the delay it felt £200 compensation would be reasonable. Our investigator didnt 
agree, but put this offer to Mr T, who rejected it. 
In mid-September our investigator wrote to Mr T saying his complaint was awaiting a 
decision from an ombudsman and could he let us know  if they was a delay in correcting his 
credit file. 
In early November Mr T told us that the credit  file had still not been corrected. He provided 
us with evidence  showing that he needed to re-mortgage his property in January and that 
Sainsburys failure to correct the credit file would affect his ability  to do so. 
Another investigator (who  had taken over the file from our previous case handler, who I have 
also referred to as an investigator  to avoid confusion) asked Sainsburys several times for an 
explanation. In mid-November the bank told us that it had removed all information  
concerning the account from one of the credit reference agencies  on 15 August 2018 but 
unfortunately the bank reported the debt again  at the end of August. The bank asked  for it to 
be removed and it said the change had been instantly updated on the credit reference  
agency file.
On 15 August it had also contacted two other credit reference agencies but both companies 
didnt complete Sainsburys request. Sainsburys said it wasnt clear  why. One agency had 
instantly updated  its report but the other  would  take three to five days. 
When the case came to me for decision I asked  our investigator to find out whether the 
information had been removed from Mr Ts credit file and whether he had been able to re-
mortgage successfully.  He confirmed that it had and he was able to.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February  2019.  My provisional  findings were:
The main  issue I need to decide  is what compensation Mr T should receive. The bank has 
agreed that the account was opened fraudulently and that Mr T isnt liable for the debt, so I 
dont need to deal with that. 
Subject to any comments I receive on this provisional decision,  I propose to tell Sainsburys  
to pay Mr T £750 for his distress and inconvenience  and a further £179.88  for the cost of a 
years subscription to a credit reference agency at 14.99 a month, if he wishes. Ill explain 
why.
The bank doesnt dispute that Mr T sent it what it asked for in order to establish the fraud  in 
November 2017.  He had to resend it in January.  Yet it took until 9 August  2018 for the bank 
to formally decide and notify Mr T that he wasnt liable  for the account.  
I agree  with our investigator that by late January Sainsburys  had given Mr T the impression 
that it accepted  the account  was opened  fraudulently. But it still passed the account to a debt 
Ref: DRN19598023collection agency that sent Mr T demands  for payment. This took months  to resolve  and then 
Sainsburys itself re-commenced sending Mr T statements  demanding payment. 
I can see from the information that Mr T has provided and the banks  own system notes that 
Mr T called and emailed the bank  a great  many  times over the period from September  2017 
to when he brought his complaint to us in order to try and resolve the issue. He was passed 
around departments  of the bank without  any resolution. 
And even  when the bank accepted the account  was fraudulent it still didnt ensure that 
Mr Ts credit files were accurate. It is clearly Sainsburys error that the debt was re-reported 
in late August 2018 to a credit reference  agency. Sainsburys says its not clear why the 
other two credit reference agencies didnt act on its request to remove the account 
information. But given  both agencies didnt process  the request I think  it is reasonable for me 
to conclude on the balance of probabilities that the error lay with Sainsburys. And even if Im 
wrong about that, in my view given the history of this case  Sainsburys shouldve  followed up 
with the credit reference agencies to ensure the information had been  removed.
Mr T has told us that hes experienced a great deal of inconvenience  from trying to get this 
resolved. I agree. He shouldnt have had to do anything after 10 November 2017 when he 
sent Sainsburys the information it asked  for to establish the fraud. Instead hes been put to a 
great deal of effort.
He also says its caused him considerable stress,  which  I dont doubt.  And the stress 
continued for a considerable  period of time. 
Mr T told us and the bank  hes had to defer  investment  opportunities until his credit  
reference files were amended. The bank has said if he can prove this caused him a financial 
loss, it will compensate him. As Mr T says, this cant really be done. But I am entitled to take 
it into account when  considering the distress and inconvenience  to Mr T.
At a late stage when  hed been told his credit  reference agency  files would be amended  Mr T 
experienced further stress as to whether it would be corrected in time to allow  him to re-
mortgage. 
Taking all of this into account,  I consider that a further £750  is a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation  for Mr Ts inconvenience  and distress. The bank points to the delay as only 
justifying £200.  I dont agree. Its more than just delay,  as I point out above. 
Im also minded to tell Sainsburys to give Mr T a further £179.88  for the equivalent of a 
years subscription to a credit reference agency. Mr T felt he had no choice but to subscribe 
to an agency to obtain a report  due to Sainsburys actions. In my view, this was a reasonable 
step. Its not clear  to me when Mr T began his subscription, but it is likely  to be some  time 
after January 2018.  Ive suggested the equivalent  of a year, as I know Mr T checked his 
report in December 2018 to finally establish that the account had been removed. Ive allowed 
for some additional months in case Mr T wishes to check  his report  again. 
My provisional decision was that Sainsburys  should  pay Mr T a further £750 compensation 
for his distress and inconvenience and £179.88 compensation for a subscription  to a credit  
reference agency report. 
Ref: DRN19598024Mr T accepted my provisional decision.  Sainsburys said that the compensation was higher 
that it would  expect on a case of this type.  It felt my PD hadnt clearly articulated  its position 
on our investigators view. It said that:
I would like to stress  we did understand the £650.00 suggested by the adjudicator  was to 
include the potential  loss of income  due to the lost investment opportunities which is why we 
suggested it would be fairer to purely  compensate for the delay and service (£200.00)  and 
then to repay a finite amount for the loss rather than bulk this altogether, I dont think  this is 
clearly articulated in the provisional view. However taking into consideration the point that Mr 
T cannot  quantify this, I recognise a higher award should be made. I am comfortable and 
would expect to reimburse the costs incurred by Mr T in obtaining his credit  file.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think my provisional 
decision is the right one, for the same  reasons.
Sainsburys still feels the compensation  awarded  to Mr T is too high. And it has clarified why 
it responded to our investigators view on compensation in the way it did. It recognises  that 
since Mr T cant quantify his loss from having  to defer property investment decisions, a 
higher award  than the £200  it suggested  is justified. And its happy to reimburse  the credit 
file costs. 
However Sainsburys havent given any reasons why it considers the award  for distress and 
inconvenience was too high. It says its higher  than it would expect  for a case  of this type. 
But the facts and circumstances of all our complaints  are unique. And Sainsburys hasnt 
mentioned that the amount also takes  into account the events after our investigators view. 
These events included a further adverse report on Mr Ts credit file, causing  some very 
considerable stress to Mr T as to whether  the file would be corrected in enough  time to 
enable him to re-mortgage at a good rate. In my view this caused  him a good  deal of distress 
given that he had hoped the situation  had been  resolved.
Ive set out in my provisional findings the reasons why I consider £750  to be fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress  and inconvenience Mr T experienced. Ive 
reviewed the file and thought about it carefully,  and I still consider it to be the case. So I will 
make my final decision in the same  terms as my provisional one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank  Plc must pay Mr T:
(a)a further £750 compensation  for his distress  and inconvenience. To be clear, this is 
in addition to the £80 already paid. 
(b)£179.88 compensation for a subscription  to a credit reference agency report. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ref: DRN19598025Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1959802