K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a loan. he applied  for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium was paid in advance  by being added  to the loan (a 
single premium) where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  Due to the 
time since the sale took place the premium  amount  is not on record.  Based on the loan 
being for £1,500, Lloyds has calculated that the single premium  is likely to have been 
£287.70 with interest  of £76.83 over the term of the loan. So, the monthly cost of the PPI 
was about £10.13.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ms monthly  loan repayment for up to 
the remaining  term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr M was a self-employed  Carpenter. He has told us he was not entitled  to any 
sick pay but did have  any some other means of repaying  his loan should he be unable to 
work. Mr M has told us about  a medical  condition he suffered with some time before the 
sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 1998.
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr M about the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN17456692The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN17456693I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr M know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN17456694Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to give us a copy of the actual credit agreement  that Mr M would 
have seen, which I dont  think  is unusual or surprising considering the time that has passed. 
But it has been able to give us a sample  copy agreement that it says would  have been  in use 
at the time of the sale. I dont  have  any reason to think that Mr M wouldnt have seen this 
agreement or similar. 
The credit agreement has a column entitled Optional Loan  Repayment Protection and has a 
separate section  titled OPTONAL  LOAN REPAYMENT PROTECTION where Mr M would 
have either  ticked a box marked YES to take the cover or NO if he hadnt wanted to take it. 
And while I dont know  what was discussed at the meeting when the sale took place and I 
accept pressure is subjective, theres nothing on the form that would lead me to think that it 
implied Mr M couldnt have had the loan without  also taking the policy. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M knew  the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds has told us the policy was sold in a meeting  at a branch. Because  of this I think  its 
likely advice  was given.  As an advised  sale places  more responsibility on Lloyds for how it 
sold the policy, I will look at this as if Lloyds advised  Mr M to take out the cover.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M. It seems Mr M cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about Mr 
Ms financial  circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show the adviser took steps  
to establish whether Mr M would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mr M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr M given his circumstances.  So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mr Ms ability to continue  to meet 
his loan repayments would have been  put under strain if he was not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the savings  he says he had.
Ref: DRN17456695-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ms self-employment  or occupation  which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. 
Regarding Mr Ms pre-existing medical condition,  I havent seen anything  which  
makes me think that this would have made the policy unsuitable for him. From the 
information provided, it doesnt look as if the condition (which caused him to seek 
treatment and time off work some seven  years before the policy  was sold) was 
ongoing. So it would not seem unreasonable for Lloyds to recommend the PPI policy 
even if it had been told about this past condition by Mr M. There  doesnt seem to 
have been a reason to think that it would be particularly  likely to be the cause of Mr M 
taking time off work  in the future. 
There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr M cancelled the policy 
early, there is nothing to suggest (at the time) that Mr M had plans to repay the loan 
early. The purpose  of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything  else which 
might suggest a need to repay  the loan early,  or that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr M sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr M would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. And while I havent seen a copy of Mr Ms actual agreement, 
the sample agreement  I have seen suggests Mr M knew the cost of the single premium 
being added to the loan and what the additional  monthly cost was (as this information would 
have been, in my view,  sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr M signed). 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or all the information about  the cost  for 
example the sample loan agreement doesnt  show the total cost of the policy  over the term 
of the loan including the additional interest   or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr 
M agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr M. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr M all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN17456696Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings  have  on Mr M? To what extent  did Mr M suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr M suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr M would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr M would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN17456697return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M knew he was borrowing the money to 
pay for the policy and there was an additional monthly cost because  of it  as I think this was 
clear in the loan agreement   it doesnt  appear  Lloyds  told him the total cost of the policy 
over the loan term including the interest. Having  said that, given the loan amount  and the 
term, I dont think the interest would  have made  the policy cost significantly more than Mr M 
realised, so I dont  think it likely the missing cost information would have affected  Mr Ms 
decision to buy the policy in his circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr M would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ms expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Its likely  the policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental condition or 
disease which Mr M knew of, or should  reasonably have known of on the start date, 
or which he had received treatment or advice  for during  the 12 months  before the 
start date which occurred again within  12 months of the start date of the policy;
Its likely  the policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if 
Mr M wasnt a permanent  employee;
Its likely  the policy did not provide  a pro-rata refund if Mr M repaid the loan early and 
the policy was cancelled, so it wouldve been  more expensive  for Mr M to have done  
so; and
Its also like that there  was a requirement that in order  to be eligible for a disability 
claim  Mr M be unable  to do his own job or any other job which  he could do bearing  
in mind his knowledge  and training. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided  
Ref: DRN17456698cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Although Mr M was self-employed when  the PPI was taken out, it wouldnt have been any 
harder for him to make  a claim  if became unemployed than someone who was permanently  
employed. Mr M says he had a medical  condition prior to the PPI being taken out and the 
policy wouldnt have provided  cover had he needed time off work because of this condition. 
But from what Mr M has said it was something he suffered from some years prior to taking 
the policy out and he received treatment for it. There is nothing to suggest it was ongoing or 
indicate he received any treatment in the 12 months  prior to the sale.  So I dont think  it would 
have been uppermost in Mr Ms mind as the main reason he might be likely  to have to take 
time off in the future.  I dont think better information about this exclusion would  have put him 
off agreeing to it. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was not only unable  to do his job  
but also unable  to do any other  job which in the insurers  view,  he might  reasonably  be 
qualified for bearing  in mind his knowledge  and training, it might have played into his thinking 
about what he would have done.  And I accept it may have given him pause for thought  
although given  Mr Ms circumstances and the limited other means  he had to make his 
repayments if he wasnt working, on balance, I still think he would have been interested in 
taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr M made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr M would not have 
bought the PPI he bought  unless , in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN17456699Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr M in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2021.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1745669