K820x#14complaint
Miss S complaint is that Odey Wealth Management (UK) Limited  (Odey)  recommended  an 
investment on a particular  basis and then,  in managing the investment, changed it to a much  
riskier profile without due regard for her attitude to risk (ATR).
background
Miss S invested in the Odey Total Return  Fund (OTRF) in early 2016,  based  on Odeys 
recommendation in late 2015. She accepts  the assessment of her ATR as medium high 
risk and says the OTRFs  aim was described as being to achieve Positive Returns in all 
market conditions over a rolling 12 month  time frame  
The OTRF  was under Odeys discretionary management. Miss S says it was recommended  
on the basis that Odey would use both long and short positions in implementing its 
investment strategy; that it was not sold as a short  fund; that a short focused fund would 
have been much riskier; and that she would not have invested in a short focused fund. Odey 
disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
Miss S fund was managed with an agreed medium/high ATR profile and with a long 
term investment time horizon of 10 years or more. Given  this time horizon, 
assessment of the funds performance  in the short term is of little value.
No guarantees  were  given about performance or that performance would equal or 
perform better than any given index.
The OTRF  matched  Miss S ATR and capital growth objective. It was also diversified 
in the form of 10 individually managed sub funds, each  with individual  investment 
strategies. The OTRF  was suitable for Miss S.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. Overall and in the main, he was satisfied that the OTRF matched Miss S ATR and 
investor profile; that her investment in it allowed for her retention of sufficient reserve funds; 
that Odeys discretionary management matched its mandate  to do so (which did not have 
investment preferences or restrictions from Miss S); that even though,  at certain  times, a 
greater emphasis was placed on short positions overall the risk profile of the fund remained 
suitable for her. Miss S disagreed and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the adjudicator, for broadly the same  reasons he gave.
As the adjudicator identified, two key elements  in Miss S case  is that Odey managed her 
fund on a discretionary basis  and it did so with a mandate  that did not express preferences 
or restrictions placed by her. This meant  that  so long as her investor profile  was correctly 
established and reflected  in its management  Odey was entitled  to manage the OTRF in 
line with its mandate  and in line with its investment process. 
Information about the mandate  and investment process was made  available  to Miss S in late 
2015 within the client agreement and wealth  management report  documents  she received  
and signed. This information included the following:
Ref: DRN18895002Reference to Miss S agreed medium/high  ATR, capital growth objective and long 
term (10 years plus) investment time horizon.   
Confirmation (based  on boxes for none being ticked) that Miss S placed no 
preferences or restrictions on Odeys discretionary management.
Reference to the OTRF having a long term capital growth objective and being 
designed to operate within Miss S ATR.
Reference to Odeys overall discretion in sub-fund selection/distribution.
Reference to a summary (and then identification  details) of holdings in the fund at the 
time, which illustrate a combination of long/short  and long only holdings. However, 
notice was given  that distribution of funds was subject  to ongoing reviews.
Reference to active discretionary management in the context of identifying  and 
reacting to major  themes and trends  in the markets.
I understand Miss S argument about  the strategy mix of long and short  positions  which  she 
says recommendation  of the OTRF was based  upon. The wealth  management report  
illustrates something similar  to what she describes. However, she did not express  a 
preference or restriction for such a mix to be maintained.  The matter was subject to Odeys  
discretion  which, as I noted above, was subject to ongoing reviews.  
On this basis, I do not consider that Odey was wrong to apply its discretion in altering the 
mix. There  was no guarantee that the mix of long and short  positions would be maintained  at 
a certain level or, it appears, maintained  at all. For the sake of completeness, I also note that 
no guarantees were  given  for the funds performance. 
Odey remained obliged  to ensure that any variation in its investment strategy did not result  in 
managing Miss S OTRF  outside her ATR (or the mandate). I have not seen evidence  that it 
managed her fund outside her ATR (or the mandate). Beyond this specific issue, I consider 
that the recommendation of the OTRF matched Miss S ATR, objective and long term 
investment time horizon.  I am not persuaded that there is a basis to uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Miss S complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision 
before 25 August 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1889500