K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that she couldnt take out a new fixed rate product on her mortgage with 
TSB Bank Plc. She also says that as a result, her mortgage payments increased  which  
meant she wasnt able to make the required payments to her TSB credit card account.
background
Miss H had a fixed interest  rate on her TSB mortgage. It ended in June 2018 and her interest 
rate changed to a variable one which meant her monthly payment increased. She contacted 
TSB about  taking out a new product with a fixed interest rate but it wasnt  able to offer one 
as it had experienced technical issues with its IT systems.
In August  2018  new rates became available so Miss H applied  for one. However, Miss H 
says that TSB subsequently lost her application and there were issues with her details being 
recorded inaccurately on TSBs systems.  Miss H says she had to go into branch to provide 
identification more  than once and made in excess of 30 phone  calls to TSB before she was 
given a new fixed rate product in November  2018.  
Because of the trouble  and upset Miss H said she had been caused,  she raised a complaint 
with our service. TSB told our investigator  that it was willing to pay Miss H £250 
compensation as well as £50 for any costs she had incurred. It also said that it had paid 
Miss H the difference between the best rate available to her at the time and the variable rate 
she was on, as well as interest at 8% simple,  and refunded any interest which  had been  over 
charged.
Miss H didnt think that was a fair offer given the amount of time shed spent  dealing  with the 
issue. She also said that shed recently  been unable to make her TSB credit  card payments 
due to the increase in her mortgage payments. 
TSB didnt  comment on the situation with Miss Hs credit card,  but it increased its offer of 
compensation to £350, as well as £50 to cover costs. However, Miss H still didnt think this 
was sufficient given  the trouble and upset  shed been caused, as well as the impact things 
had on her ability to pay her credit card.
Our investigator said that Miss Hs monthly credit card payments were around £150,  and her 
mortgage payments  had increased by around £110,  so she thought it was likely that 
Miss Hs ability  to pay her credit card had been  affected by the issue  with her mortgage rate. 
She also thought  that Miss H had contacted TSB to ask for assistance and it had done little 
to help. Overall she didnt think that TSB had treated Miss H fairly, taking her circumstances  
into account. She recommended that TSB should:
Ref: DRN12318392-pay Miss H an additional £250  for the trouble and upset caused  by its mishandling of 
her financial  difficulties in relation  to her credit card account (making a total of £650  
compensation)
-remove the interest  applied to Miss Hs credit  card account since  October 2018  
when she contacted it about  her difficulties 
-remove any adverse information it reported  to Miss Hs credit file in relation to her 
credit card from October  2018 to date
-come to a mutually  acceptable arrangement regarding  the outstanding  credit card 
balance
Miss H thought this was a fair outcome,  but TSB didnt.  It accepted  Miss H had told it about  
her difficulty  in making her credit  card payments in October 2018, but she hadnt made any 
payments to the account since September 2018.  It said that Miss H subsequently told it she 
wouldnt make  payments to the account until her complaint was resolved. It questioned why 
Miss H had not made any payments  despite receiving a refund of interest  in relation to her 
mortgage complaint,  and her mortgage payments reducing when she was given a new rate 
in November 2018.
As TSB has asked for an ombudsmans decision, the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why. 
TSB accepts it had IT issues which  prevented Miss H from taking out a new fixed  rate 
mortgage in July 2018, until she took out a new rate in November 2018.  It has paid Miss H 
the difference between the best rate available to her at the time and the variable rate she 
was on, as well as interest  at 8% simple.  It also refunded any interest which had been  
overcharged. This effectively puts Miss H back in the position she otherwise would have 
been in but for TSBs issues  and mistakes  in relation to her mortgage  so I think  thats 
fair.
TSB initially offered  to pay Miss H £250  compensation as well as £50 for costs for the 
trouble and upset  it caused. Following correspondence with our investigator,  it recognised 
that there  were administrative issues when  Miss H subsequently applied  for a new rate, 
which caused further trouble and upset, as well as delays. And so it increased its original 
compensation offer to £350, as well as £50 costs. Taking into account  the repeated phone 
calls and visits to branch she was required to make, I also think thats fair and reasonable 
compensation for the additional  trouble  and upset Miss H was caused in relation to her 
mortgage.
Miss Hs mortgage payments went up as a result of her fixed  rate ending. TSBs  told us that 
from July 2018  Miss Hs mortgage  payment  went from £433.91 to £524.88. And in 
September 2018 it went up again to £541.04. When Miss H was able to take a new fixed  rate 
in November 2018, her payment reduced to £410.76. Overall,  its fair to say that between  
June and November  2018, Miss Hs monthly  mortgage payments were around £100  more 
than they had previously been, and around  £130 per month more than they could have 
been, had she been able to take a fixed rate sooner.
Ref: DRN12318393TSBs also given us Miss Hs credit  card statements. These show that the minimum payment 
Miss H was required to make varied  from £140 to £150 from June  to September  2018. This 
was the last point at which Miss H made  a payment to her credit card account, before 
contacting TSB on 3 October 2018  to say that she was struggling to make her credit  card 
payments, due to the increase in her TSB mortgage  payments.  . 
By this point  Miss H had reasonably expected  to have  taken a new fixed  rate product  on her 
mortgage, but she wasnt given a new rate until 15 November 2018.  TSB told us that it 
couldnt have  offered  Miss H a payment plan for her credit card because her account  was 
not in arrears. 
Generally speaking, lenders have an obligation to treat their customers positively  and 
sympathetically if theyre experiencing financial difficulty. This might take the form of a 
reduced payment  plan or the suspension or reduction of interest.  I wouldve expected TSB to 
have considered this. So I dont think it did enough to help Miss H here. Significantly though, 
Im satisfied that Miss H was only having  difficulty paying her credit card as a result of errors 
which TSB had made in relation to her mortgage,  which makes  its inaction, in my view, 
particularly unsympathetic.
TSB has said that Miss H has refused to make any payments to her credit  card account 
since 4 September  2018  when she paid £60  and has subsequently told it she would not 
make any further payments until her complaint is resolved. But Im not persuaded that this is 
the only reason  payments havent  been made.
TSB has also pointed out that it paid around £600  to Miss H on 15 November 2018, which  
was made  up of a refund  of the overpayments she had made to her mortgage. However, 
because Miss H had been  unable to make a payment of £154.32 due by 4 October  2018,  
interest and charges were added to her credit card account which meant  that the minimum 
payment required  by 2 November  2018 was £302.48. She also wasnt  able to make that 
payment, so she was then required  to pay £460.15 by 3 December 2018. 
I accept that Miss H could  have  used the refund shed received from TSB to pay her credit  
card bill at that point. But I can see why she didnt. Both TSBs  and Miss Hs records show  
that by this stage  Miss H had chased  TSB on a number of occasions about what it could do 
to help. Miss H had originally asked  TSB to raise a complaint about the situation for her 
credit card, and for it to be considered alongside the issues shed raised about her mortgage 
account. Ive seen no evidence that TSB did that. 
In fact, when our investigator mentioned  the issues relating to Miss Hs credit  card account in 
her original assessment  of the complaint in January this year, TSB did not respond to those 
points. TSBs records also show that Miss H continued to tell TSB she wouldnt make  any 
further payments  until her complaint had been resolved, but when our service enquired 
about this, as late as March 2019,  TSB said that Miss H did not have a credit  card.  It was 
only from continued contact from our investigator  that TSB was then able to locate it.
Ref: DRN12318394TSB has also pointed out that when it spoke to Miss H on 25 November 2018, it offered her 
a payment plan because  her credit card account was, by that time,  in arrears. Records 
suggest that Miss H declined this. However,  TSBs contact notes also show that Miss H 
asked it to refund the interest and charges which had been applied  to her account and for 
TSB to put her account on hold pending the outcome of the complaint. 
TSBs contact notes show that TSB told Miss H her account was put on hold a number of 
times. They also show that TSB told Miss H that putting her account  on hold could stop any 
further action  being  taken  about recovery of the associated debt, despite sending  her letters  
which suggested otherwise. I think its fair to say that TSB gave Miss H somewhat 
contradictory information about what the consequences of non-payments  of her credit  card 
account were. Given that TSB had not handled  things at all well by this stage, and had not 
been clear about  what  Miss H needed to do, I can see why Miss H had lost confidence  in 
TSB and chose not to make further payments, pending our investigation.
Given this, I agree with the recommendations our investigator made  to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
TSB Bank plc has already  done enough to put Miss Hs mortgage back  in the place it 
shouldve been.  I make no further award in this respect. 
However, TSB Bank  plc should now:
-pay Miss H a total of £650 compensation, inclusive of the £50 it offered for costs,  
deducting any compensation  it has already paid for non-financial loss
-rework Miss Hs credit card account to the position it was in when she contacted it for 
help in October 2018, by refunding interest and charges applied since  then
-remove any adverse information  recorded  with credit reference  agencies in relation  
to Miss Hs credit  card account from October 2018 to date
-engage with Miss H about repaying  the outstanding balance  of her account,  ensuring 
its approach is positive and sympathetic to Miss Hs position
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1231839