K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about her home insurer  Lloyds  Bank  General Insurance Limited 
because it has declined  a claim  she made  to it for storm and/or accidental  damage caused 
to the roof of her utility  room. 
background
Towards the end of February 2018  there was a storm in the vicinity of Mrs Bs home. There 
were high winds accompanied by snow falling over a couple  of days and there was then a 
prolonged period of heavy  rain. During  all of this the polycarbonate sheet roof of Mrs Bs 
utility room began to leak. The roof is situated  behind a small pitched tiled roof and between  
two larger  pitched  tiled roofs.
Mrs B called Lloyds in March 2018  to report the damage and it sent a contractor to her home 
to assess it. Mrs B said the contractor told her it was storm damage. But when she next 
heard from Lloyds it said the claim was declined as the damage had likely been  caused due 
the age and condition of the roof. Mrs B complained and Lloyds accepted  that the report 
from its contractor  contained inconsistencies.  It agreed to set it aside and send out a 
personal claims consultant (PCC)  to look at the roof again.
The PCC felt the storm, if anything, had merely highlighted  the condition  of the roof which, in 
places, was poor. He said there was unlikely to have been too much snow  in the area and a 
roof in good  condition wouldnt have sustained damage.  He noted that the bracings  
supporting the rafters  were rotten.
Mrs B had obtained a report  from a roofer.  The roofer felt the storm had caused  the damage.  
His invoice did refer to replacing a rotten beam. Mrs B later said the reference to a rotten  
beam was incorrect, the roofer had meant  that some wood connected to the beam was 
rotten, not the beam  itself. She asked Lloyds to pay the £598 the roofer  said it would  cost to 
fix the roof and the £100 she said shed spent obtaining the report  and materials  to carry out 
temporary repairs.
Lloyds declined to make any payment. It said the roof had been  suffering from age related  
wear and tear damage, which is generally excluded on the policy.  It said it wouldnt 
reimburse the cost of the report because it hadnt changed the outcome of the claim. Mrs B 
complained to this service. She said the PCC  didnt  have  local knowledge of her area so his 
findings were flawed. She felt the evidence  from her roofer  sufficiently  showed  that damage  
covered by the policy had been caused.
Our investigator felt that the evidence from Mrs Bs roofer supported Lloyds  view that the 
roof was suffering from age related wear and tear. He said as wear and tear is excluded 
from the policy, he couldnt reasonably ask Lloyds to accept the claim or make any payment.
Mrs B said the findings were utterly bizarre  given the compelling  information shed set out 
validating her claim. Mrs B said everything  shed presented was factually correct  and was 
sufficient to mean she should  win. She pointed  out that the roof had been damaged at its 
lowest point which was where all the water, debris and snow  naturally gathers but it hadnt  
been damaged  prior to the storm and no one could disprove  this. 
Ref: DRN12953612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There was a storm at the time of the damage. And storms can and do damage roofs.  So I 
have to decide then whether Lloyds conclusion that the storm wasnt the dominant cause of 
the damage suffered here was fair and reasonable. To do that Ive looked closely at Mrs Bs 
roofers report and the conclusions reached  by Lloyds  PCC. As Lloyds discounted its 
contractors assessment, opting to send out its PCC  to review the claim, I have too.
Mrs B has said that the roof sheets  were lifted and moved by the wind,  before the snow 
which fell as part of the storm then caused more damage. Neither Mrs Bs roofer nor Lloyds 
PCC noted or accepted  that the wind had, or likely had, lifted  the polycarbonate sheets that 
make up the roof.
Mrs Bs roofer said:
The damage is in one part of the roof only where  the main beam has split due [to] 
movement of the weight from the snow and ice (a few inches), settling in the area which then 
allowed rain water to miss the guttering.
Reference to high winds is made elsewhere in the report. But the above is the only 
explanation of the method  of damage and this doesnt refer to the high winds  that were part 
of the storm. Notably the tiles on the pitched  roofs werent disturbed.
The PCC felt that a roof in good  condition wouldnt have been damaged by the weight of 
snow. And he concluded that there  hadnt been  much in the local area. But he also noted 
that the bracing supporting the beam was rotten. The roofer said a rotten beam  needed 
replacing too and this was later clarified  by Mrs B as reported above.  Any part of the roof 
being rotten might well suggest  its suffering,  at least to some extent, from wear  and tear. 
Thats because rot doesnt occur  as part of a one-off event, it occurs  gradually over time. 
However, both of these  reports  were  only undertaken several months after the loss. So it 
isnt clear what state the beam or its bracing elements were in at the time damage occurred. 
Mrs B has argued that the PCC had no personal knowledge of the local area. I know  this has 
been concluded by searching  for and reviewing social media details about the PCC but Im 
not persuaded that is a safe method for drawing  any conclusion  on what  the PCC  likely 
knew. He may well have  knowledge and experience that goes beyond that stated or found in 
social media. Im not persuaded his conclusion was unreasonable  or that it was made  
unfairly. 
Also though, beyond  seeking to discredit  the basis of the PCCs findings, Mrs B hasnt 
provided any evidence  that makes  me think a well maintained roof would have  been  unlikely 
to withstand the storm conditions  that prevailed.  The report  from the roofer  doesnt do that. 
The conditions which occurred arent something  which happen every day  but buildings are 
built to withstand  all sorts of extreme conditions. And Im mindful that whilst deep deposits of 
snow arent currently a common part of this countrys winters, that hasnt always been the 
case. So Im not persuaded that the snow that likely fell and sat on Mrs Bs utility roof was so 
unusually heavy that it would have caused damage  regardless of the state of the roof. In turn 
that may well mean that the roof was most  likely suffering from some other damage at the 
time of the storm which the storm merely highlighted.
Ref: DRN12953613That being  said I think it fairly has to be acknowledged that this is quite finely  balanced and 
Lloyds hasnt provided a particularly strong case in support of its decline of Mrs Bs claim. 
Particularly, and as Lloyds itself noted,  its original assessors should have done a better job 
in considering and gathering evidence of the damage. However, just because an insurer  
doesnt handle  or argue  a claim  particularly  well doesnt mean  it fairly  and reasonably has to 
settle it. Rather the focus falls on whether its claims decision was fair and reasonable. And, 
in that respect,  I only have to be satisfied on the balance  of probabilities. Given  everything 
Ive seen I think Lloyds  decline  was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1295361