K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lex Autolease Ltd applied unfair charges for damage at the end of his 
hire agreement. He wants the charges removed.
background
Mr M tells us he acquired a vehicle  through a consumer hire agreement  in March 2015.  He 
says at the same time he took out an insurance  policy to cover for minor damage repairs. Mr 
M says that towards the end of the hire period  he was aware  there were minor  scratches  to 
the front bumper  and contacted the insurers. But he says he was told there  was insufficient 
time to undertake  the repairs  before the hire period ended. Mr M reports  that - prior to 
collection - the vehicle was inspected on 1 March 2018 and the bumper damage  was 
identified by the collection agent. But he says no other  damage  was brought to his attention 
before the vehicle  was taken away. Mr M says he later received an inspection report  which  
included not only the bumper damage  but also made reference  to a dent to the left hand 
front door. He said a charge of £170 had been  applied for this, along  with £75 for the 
bumper. Mr M says he did not cause the damage  to the front door of the vehicle. Following 
the collection of the vehicle he also complains  that there was confusion  with Lex Autolease  
not being aware the vehicle had been  collected and delaying sending  him a copy  of the 
inspection report.
Lex Autolease told us it was satisfied  the dent had occurred  before the vehicle was collected 
and the charge was correctly applied. It said Mr M had signed the collection note to confirm 
the damage was present. It said the vehicle had been inspected again at its workshop and 
the damage had been confirmed to fall outside the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines.  Lex Autolease  said it wasnt  responsible 
for the insurance  policy which  had been  sold to Mr M by the dealer.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She said the 
inspection report compiled at the time of collection noted the damage  to the bumper and the 
front door. Although  she said this hadnt  been visible in the photographs  which  had been 
supplied with the report. But she said the inspection photographs from the workshop clearly  
showed the damage. She felt on the balance  of probability the damage had occurred when  
the vehicle was in Mr Ms possession  and that it was reasonable for the business to impose  
the charge.
Mr M didnt  accept this view and said he still maintained he did not damage the door. As its 
not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms disappointment when an unexpected charge arose  at the end of the 
hire period.  And particularly as he had taken  steps  by acquiring an insurance policy  to cover 
such eventualities.
Ref: DRN17952082Ill deal briefly with the matter of the damage insurance. And I accept that when  Mr M took 
out the hire agreement  he was sold the insurance  policy at the same  time. So I can 
understand why he might  think  it was all part of the one transaction.  But the policy is not 
supplied by Lex Autolease and did not form part of the regulated  hire agreement.  So it falls 
outside the scope of this complaint which is only against Lex Autolease.  Mr M has indicated 
he may wish to take separate legal action  regarding the way this policy was sold by the 
dealer and my decision will not affect his ability to do this.
Where evidence is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required  to make my 
decision on a balance  of probabilities. That is to say I decide what I think  is the most likely 
explanation to account for whats happened.
At the time the vehicle  was inspected Mr M has described the conditions  as a bad weather 
day. And its clear from the photographs that there  was snow  on the vehicle and surrounds. 
So it would not be surprising if both Mr M and the vehicle inspector  wanted to get the 
inspection and formalities over with as quickly as possible. For obvious reasons, I cant  say 
what was said at the time but Mr Ms signature appears on the inspection report. And the 
report identifies the damage which  was found at the time. There are six areas of damage 
identified including  the bumper and the left hand  front door. 
It seems  to me improbable  that the inspector  would  record damage if it wasnt there at the 
time of the inspection.  And I think it would be stretching  the boundaries of coincidence if 
similar damage had been caused after collection in exactly the same place as has been 
identified at the time of collection.  I accept  that Mr M may not have been aware of this 
damage as there is no way of knowing when it was caused. But I think  its more  likely than 
not the damage was caused  when  the vehicle was in Mr Ms possession. As the damage  is 
in excess of the BVRLA fair wear  and tear guidelines I think Lex Autolease is entitled to 
apply the charge which I think  is reasonable.
Mr M also asked  us to consider what he describes  as the unprofessional collection 
process, poor co-ordination in tracing  the vehicle after collection  and the delay in sending  the 
collection report. As this service is not the industry regulator (thats the Financial Conduct  
Authority) its not for me to instruct a business  on its business routines. And whilst I 
recognise there were  some administrative failings I would class  these as being relatively 
minor.
Although there was a delay in Lex Autolease providing the inspection  report to Mr M, I dont 
think this alters the basic facts about whether it was fair to apply the charge for damage.  And 
it didnt affect his capacity to claim under  the insurance as I understand that lapsed  once  the 
vehicle had been collected.  
Im sorry  that my decision  is likely to disappoint  Mr M but Im not upholding this complaint.
  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN17952083Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1795208