K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax blocked a payment.
background
Mrs J tried to make  a bank transfer  online to a car dealership in order  to buy a car. She says 
the payment didnt  go through  and she received a message on her online banking  asking her 
to call Halifax. She says Halifax treated her in a heavy handed  way during the call and she 
was left feeling that Halifax  didnt  believe her. 
She says the phone call lasted  over 30 minutes and despite answering all their questions 
correctly and truthfully, Halifax still refused to authorise the payment. She had to visit a local 
branch with identification before the payment could be made.  Mrs J says the questioning in 
the call was extreme and appears to have been  unnecessary given that she was required to 
show identification in person anyway.  
Halifax says it asked  Mrs J to visit a branch because during the call they had concerns she 
might be the victim of a scam.  This was because Mrs J was making a large payment towards 
a car she hadnt  seen  or test driven.  She was also making this payment several days before  
going to collect  it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Halifax had done anything wrong. Mrs J disagreed.  In summary 
she said Halifaxs questioning had made  her feel intimidated. She said it was her choice to 
pay for the car in advance and it was a well-known, reputable  dealership. If Halifax  was 
always going to refuse  the payment, they should  have  said so earlier and not made  her go 
through such a lengthy, upsetting call. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mrs J had with Halifaxs fraud team. Mrs J was asked  several security 
questions. This took around 12 minutes to complete and was in part due to Mrs J not having  
immediate access to some of this information (which was understandable given what was 
asked and the circumstances she was in at the time). The advisor then told Mrs J that she 
had passed security.  So I think its clear  Halifax was satisfied it was talking to her and not a 
fraudster. 
The remainder of the call was taken up by further  questions the advisor  had about  the nature 
of the transfer  Mrs J wanted  to make. I think it was clear the advisor  was concerned  Mrs J 
might have been pressured or duped into making  this payment. Because  of the answers  
Mrs J gave to these  further questions, the advisor  chose to escalate the payment to a higher 
security level.  So I dont  think Halifax had made  any decision  about  whether to approve the 
payment until Mrs J had answered  all their questions.
I realise Mrs J felt intimidated by some  of the questions that were asked and she was clearly 
upset at certain points  in the call. But I dont  think  the advisor behaved  in an inappropriate or 
heavy handed  way. Mrs J says she took Halifaxs questions to mean  they were suspicious of 
Ref: DRN19968922her. I can understand why Mrs J might have  felt this way, but the advisor did explain to her 
the reason for the further questions was to try and protect her from being  a victim of a scam.  
So I think Halifax was trying to protect  Mrs J and her account. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably  in taking additional 
precautions before releasing the payment. I appreciate this made  things more  inconvenient 
for Mrs J and caused her worry  that she might lose out on buying the car she wanted.  But 
because I dont think Halifax  did anything wrong, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to 
compensate her for that upset and inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1996892