K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way that his home  insurance claim for water  damage to his home  
and contents was carried out by (what is now known as) Fairmead Insurance Limited.
background
Mr A suffered  a severe water leak to his home in March 2018. Fairmead sent out loss 
adjusters to carry out an initial  inspection. At first Fairmead said it was going to decline the 
claim as Mr A, the sole policyholder, didnt own the property as his mother did. After some 
investigations involving  that concern and whether Mr A was occupying the property, 
Fairmead agreed to proceed with the claim in May 2018 pending its final decision on liability.  
Full liability was accepted  in June 2018.
Fairmead then arranged with the drying company to remove the contents from the property.  
That company reported  back that Mr A had only permitted it to remove  the contents from his 
loft. He then went  on holiday  until the end of August  and didnt want contractors  to access 
the house while he was away. After his return contact was made with the removal/drying 
company to take away the balance of the contents, which it did in late September.  Then  
arrangements were made to strip out some asbestos  from the property and drying was 
started. The property  was certified dry by the end of November 2018. 
Mr A wanted  to use his own contractors.  He was therefore asked to provide a priced 
schedule of works which was sent to Fairmead  in late January 2019. However Fairmead  
thought it was priced too highly and asked Mr A to provoke  an estimate breaking it down into 
individual items.  
Mr A made a number  of complaints  to Fairmead  about the progress of the claim. Fairmead 
responded to those  complaints in March and April 2018. Those complaints were out of time 
for referring  to this service. Mr A made  further complaints in July, November and December 
2018 and February  2019. For those later complaints Fairmead didnt agree that it had done 
anything wrong.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Fairmead  had acted reasonably. Mr A 
didnt agree in particular  saying that he hadnt  refused to allow the removers  to take all his 
contents and that they had only put this forward as an excuse  afterwards. He says the loss 
adjusters were well aware he wanted his contents  removed  before he went  on holiday so the 
drying process could  proceed while he was away.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
As Ive said Mr A made complaints for which three final response letters  were  issued, two in 
March and one on 18 April 2018.  The last letter apologised for the initial  delays. As Mr A 
didnt bring his complaints dealt with in those letters until after more  than six months they are 
Ref: DRN15830832out of time for this service  to consider. I will only be considering his complaints after the April 
2018 final response letter from Fairmead.
I will also only be considering his complaints up until 4 February 2019 which  is when Mr A 
brought his complaint to us. If any issues arose  after that date Mr A will have to bring a new 
complaint to Fairmead.
the claim
Mr As complaints essentially concern the long delay in his claim being  progressed. The 
damage to his home was such that he had to move into alternative accommodation with his 
family.
Fairmead had to consider its liability in this case. It had initially said it wouldnt be paying the 
buildings claim,  and then it had concerns about  the occupation of the property as it thought 
Mr A was living at his mothers house. Those  concerns had to be addressed   this involved 
getting information from the broker and obtaining  copies of utility bills, I see from May 2018 it 
agreed to progress the claim while its investigation  was continuing. It accepted  liability in full 
by mid-June 2018.
Instructions were then issued to the drying company. It advised that the contents would have 
to be removed to facilitate the asbestos removal. At that point Fairmeads file and the loss 
adjusters notes about what  happened record a contradictory account from what  Mr A says 
happened. The notes say the contents  in the loft were removed on 21 July but Mr A wouldnt 
permit the rest of the contents  to be removed. Fairmead says this was for reasons "best 
known to [Mr A]. Mr A, in contrast, says this didnt happen and asks,  if it did, why the 
removal company didnt just overrule his alleged  request.
I think its clear  that Mr A didnt  want contractors  in the house while he was on holiday which 
was until the end of August. The file note indicates that the removal company attempted  to 
contact Mr A to arrange the rest of the removal and this couldnt take place until 27 
September. Effectively there was a delay of two months in proceeding with the claim.
As the notes are quite brief Im not able to say exactly what happened. Theres no email 
from Mr A querying why only the loft contents  were  removed. On the other  hand  I also 
havent seen any emails from Fairmead  or the loss adjusters or the removal/drying company 
at the time asking  why Mr A had only allowed the loft contents to be removed. Im afraid  Im 
unable to make a judgment  on this issue and as I cant say what  is more likely one way or 
the other I cant say that Fairmead  was responsible for this delay.
As for the delay in getting the drying started, the contents had to be removed and the 
asbestos stripped  out before this could start. The asbestos removal  was completed  on 
5 October and the property certified  dry on 27 November. I think  that was a reasonable 
timescale.
As Mr A wanted his own contractors to carry out the work, it was reasonable for Fairmead  to 
ask for a priced  estimate and scope of works, which was provided on 21 January. Fairmead 
queried the cost and asked for a full breakdown, which it was still waiting  for when Mr A 
made his complaint to this service.
Overall, in the time period  Im considering I cant say that Fairmead  was responsible  for any 
unnecessary delays. So I cant uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN15830833my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1583083