K821x#15Complaint
Mrs R has complained that Shop Direct  Finance  Company Limited handled  her two 
catalogue accounts unfairly. She says this had had a negative  impact on her credit file and 
caused her considerable stress.  
Background
Mrs R opened an account with K&Co in May 2010. Later on that year,  she opened a 
Littlewoods account.  Both were  owned by Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  (Shop 
Direct). 
From 2011  onwards, Mrs R had financial difficulties. So she entered  into several  different 
payment plan arrangements to pay a reduced monthly amount towards her catalogue debts. 
Between 2014 and 2017, Shop Direct recorded  a number of instances of missed payments 
on Mrs Rs credit file.  
In 2015, Shop Direct closed the K&Co brand and transferred K&Co customers  accounts to 
Littlewoods. This meant that after this, Mrs R had two Littlewoods accounts. 
In November 2017, Mrs R paid off one of her accounts. 
In December 2017, Shop Direct  sold Mrs Rs other account to a debt collection  agency. 
When Mrs R found out, she phoned  Shop Direct and they agreed  to buy it back  again. In 
February 2018, Mrs R repaid the outstanding balance. She says she borrowed money  from 
her family to do this.
Mrs R complained. She said:
She shouldnt have had two separate  Littlewoods accounts. Shed understood that 
theyd both been merged into one, when  K&Co became Littlewoods.  
If shed missed any payments, it was because it was confusing having  two accounts 
and sometimes her payments had gone to the wrong one. It was because of this 
confusion that Shop Direct had agreed  to buy their account back  from the debt 
collectors.
Shop  Direct shouldnt  have sold her account,  as she hadnt been in arrears.  
Shop  Direct had incorrectly  recorded adverse credit information  on her file. 
Shop  Direct had caused her a lot of stress, for which she should  be compensated.
Shop Direct didnt  uphold Mrs Rs complaint.  They said that the information on her credit file 
was accurate and theyd  been entitled to sell the debt. Their representative had agreed to 
buy it back as a goodwill  gesture, not because theyd been at fault.  
Mrs R referred  her complaint to us. She said Shop  Directs representative had told her theyd 
made a mistake on the phone and should have merged her accounts.  So they werent 
reporting them fairly on her credit  file. She felt they should amend her credit file and repay  
her the outstanding balance shed repaid (£974) as compensation for their errors.  
One of our investigators  looked into things. She didnt agree that the accounts  should have 
been merged,  or that Shop Direct  had ever said they would be. But she did find some errors 
Ref: DRN11448402on the credit  file, where some payments were recorded as missed. She said these  payments  
had actually been made in line with an agreed repayment plan. 
Mrs R still felt she should get more compensation. So she asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by our investigator. So Im not going to ask Shop Direct to do anything 
more than she proposed.  I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs R so Id like to explain 
why. 
First, Im satisfied that Mrs R was aware that she had two separate debts. I say this 
notwithstanding the fact that she may have  found Shop Directs online payment system 
confusing. Ive concluded this because Mrs R was making payments to both accounts. She 
also didnt dispute  that she had two accounts  in the phone call after her remaining account 
was sold. And she referred to having  two accounts in one of her complaint emails. 
I dont think Shop Direct did anything wrong  when  they sold Mrs Rs account in December 
2017. The client agreement shed signed permitted them  to do this and didnt require them to 
give notice in advance. I dont think that the fact that they agreed to buy it back  was an 
admission of fault. 
Ive listened carefully  to Mrs Rs phone call with Shop  Direct,  where  they agreed to buy back 
her account.  Their representative  made  it very clear that what  he was doing was not strictly 
in line with guidelines and it was not a legitimate buy-back . He did, however, accept that 
the system for paying into accounts on-line could be confusing  for customers with more than 
one account. In my view,  Shop Direct buying back the account  was the action of a 
sympathetic member of staff who wanted to make  a gesture, possibly influenced by the fact 
that Mrs R had explained her intention to repay  the balance. 
Im not going  to make a finding here on whether Shop Directs  system  for accepting 
payments is confusing or not. I dont have  enough evidence to decide this and I dont think I 
need to in order to resolve  this complaint. I say this because Ive concluded  that Mrs Rs 
credit file should be amended in several instances.  
Shop Direct has already  accepted that there  were errors  on Mrs Rs credit file and have 
agreed to put things  right. They need  to amend the credit file to reflect  the fact that payments 
recorded as missed in May 2014, June  to July 2015,  December 2015 and March to October 
2017 were actually made in accordance with an agreed repayment  plan.  They must now 
carry out these corrections, if they havent  already done so.
I know Mrs R would  like the record from January 2016 amended  too. But I cant  see that this 
was an error  or the result of confusion.  The evidence shows  that Mrs R didnt make a 
payment to either  account in this period. So I dont  think this can be attributed  to confusion  
caused by having two accounts. And it therefore  wouldnt be fair to ask Shop Direct to 
amend the credit file. 
Mrs R feels that Shop  Direct have caused  her a lot of stress. I dont doubt that it has been  
stressful for her being in financial difficulties  and having several payment plans  over the 
Ref: DRN11448403years. And Im sure finding  out that Shop Direct  had sold her debt was unwelcome.  But I 
dont think it was an error by Shop Direct that caused this stress.  So Im not going to award 
any compensation for this. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited to arrange 
for Mrs Rs credit  report to be amended as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1144840