K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
FCE Bank Plc wasnt  of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and end the 
agreement.
background
Mr E tells us he acquired the new vehicle in October  2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as D. 
He reports that after about a month it experienced several faults and has had to be repaired 
on various occasions. Issues have included water ingress; faults  with electrical  wiring;  
switches and sensors.  And he reports that despite repairs there are still intermittent faults 
with the Satellite Navigation System (SNS), and the On Screen Display Unit (OSDU) going 
blank. Mr E says hes been told there are known issues with the SYNC3 system  which  
controls various features of the vehicle. He says that intermittently hes also been unable  use 
such features as the radio, climate  control,  and phone. He says hes tried to reject the 
vehicle but states that FCE has only offered compensation.
Since bringing his complaint to this service in April 2019 Mr E has reported the vehicle  has 
continued to experience intermittent issues with the SYNC3 system. But hes also reported 
that water  ingress continues to be a problem and that the vehicle has now developed faults 
with its self charging system. He says it suffered a complete  power failure in February 2020 
and has been  told by his garage that this was caused by water  ingress  which damaged  the 
alternator. He estimates  that since acquiring the vehicle its been  taken in for repairs  on 
about 20 occasions.
FCE said that as of March  2019  it had confirmed with Mr E that all the errors with the vehicle 
had been repaired  with the exception  of those linked to the SYNC3  system  on the vehicle. 
This included the SNS;  front camera;  GPS  and OSDU. It said there  was a planned software 
update due in June  2019. And that Mr E had been  offered  a refund of the cost of the SYNC3 
system (£550) and £100 compensation for inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 April 2020. I said I intended to uphold 
the complaint  and that Mr E should  be allowed to reject the vehicle  and end the agreement.
Both parties  have replied  to my provisional  decision and I thank them for their responses. 
Mr E agreed with my provisional view. FCE provided additional information and said it 
accepted the vehicle  had experienced teething  issues. It said these had been put right and 
it didnt think the vehicle should  now be rejected.
Ive considered what the parties have told me but Im not minded to change  my provisional  
decision. Ill give my full reasons in my final decision which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr E has experienced several  issues with the vehicle. And I accept that it 
would be particularly disappointing that a new vehicle should not perform  to the standard  
expected.
Ref: DRN16449562Mr Es hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. FCE supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And with a new vehicle that would mean  it ought  to be free 
from even minor defects. It also includes an aspect of durability.
Its not in dispute  that Mr E reported problems with the vehicle from an early stage. Initially,  a 
diagnostic test in October  2018 failed to show any fault codes. But in November the vehicle  
was inspected and found to have  faults with a lamp switch and the neutral position sensor. 
Both were replaced. Water ingress was also identified and repaired.  When the latter  issue 
occurred again  a few weeks later the affected  area was resealed.
It seems  intermittent  issues  continued  to arise  with the SYNC3 system but by March 2019  
Mr E was reporting that all the other  mechanical issues  had seemingly been  resolved. And it 
appears the manufacturer was due to provide a software update in June 2019. It was 
anticipated this would  solve the issues with the SYNC3  system.
Mr E has told us that in June 2019  he was then advised a software update  wasnt required 
but that rewiring would be necessary due to water  ingress. And he reports  that he was 
without the vehicle for several days.
Subsequently Mr E has reported further  issues with the vehicle suffering from water  ingress  
in February 2020.  And hes recently  reported  a warning light indicating  a charging issue.  He 
states this led to a sudden  total loss or power whilst driving. Mr E provided  confirmation that 
the vehicle was booked in for repairs in February  and March  2020. Its now been confirmed 
an alternator has been replaced. Mr E says hes been told that water ingress had caused the 
issue with the alternator but Ive not seen anything to confirm  this.
.
Where facts are in dispute or information is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In its response to my provisional decision FCE provided details of those  occasions  it said the 
vehicle had been in for repairs. This included  four occasions from October  2018  to 
December 2018.  The first three months after Mr E had acquired what was a new vehicle.
But Ill put these  aside for one moment as Mr E accepted  repairs  and as far as I can see he 
didnt ask to reject the vehicle until February 2019. It appears D refused this request and so 
Mr E turned directly to FCE.
During the course of enquiries into that complaint, in March  2019 Mr E confirmed that all the 
issues with the vehicle had been  resolved  with the exception of those matters which  were  
directly linked to the SYNC 3 system.
Subsequently FCE issued  a Final Response Letter (FRL) on 11 April 2019. In that FRL it 
explained that a software  update was planned  in June 2019. And as that was the only 
remaining issue it offered  Mr E a refund of £550  for the cost of the SYNC 3 and £100  
compensation for the inconvenience hed experienced. Later in April 2019  Mr E made his 
complaint to this service.
Ref: DRN16449563Theres a dispute  on the exact number of times the vehicle has been in for repairs.  Mr E puts 
the figure at around 20 whereas FCE says its only about six. Its likely the difference  is 
accounted for by occasions when Mr E has reported issues  but no repairs have resulted. As 
its not an issue that directly affects  my final decision I dont think I need  to make a separate  
finding on this point.
What isnt in dispute - and FCE confirmed this in its response to my provisional decision - is 
that on 11 June  2019 a wiring loom was replaced.  This was due to water  ingress.  This was 
the third instance  that water ingress had affected the vehicle. And it makes for compelling 
evidence that two earlier repairs in late 2018  hadnt been successful. 
Further, on 22 July 2019 the wiring loom  for the battery was replaced due to corrosion. On 
23 March 2020  the alternator was replaced.
In its response FCE said that it didnt  consider  the number of repairs to be excessive and it 
restated that Mr E hadnt yet had the June  2019 software update  applied.  It went  on to say 
that it couldnt determine the root cause of these  issues. Although it did say the latest fault 
with the alternator would  be considered wear  and tear.
Ive given careful thought to what the parties have told me and Im going to concentrate  on 
those facts which arent in dispute.
When FCE issued its FRL the crux of its argument in declining  to accept Mr Es rejection of 
the vehicle was that all issues other than with the SYNC 3 had been resolved. Unfortunately,  
that proved to be an over optimistic assessment of the situation. Two separate wiring looms  
were subsequently replaced  at least one of which was due to a further instance of water 
ingress.
So its beyond doubt that within nine months of supply the vehicle has experienced three 
separate instances of water ingress; an intermittent but repeated failure of the SYNC 3 
system; and the need for two wiring looms to be replaced. This suggests major issues with 
the vehicles electrics, probably due to water ingress.  
Ive put to one side the reports from Mr E in late 2019 and early 2020  about other examples 
of water ingress. And I accept the alternator may have been a wear and tear issue.
But its been  clear  for many months  that this vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. The CRA lists freedom from minor defects and durability as two aspects which 
should be considered in assessing quality. This vehicle fails on both counts. I feel the 
description of the chain  of events as teething issues  rather  overlooks the serious problems 
with the vehicle both before and after the time Mr E tried to reject it in February  2019.
Even if the vehicle had now been restored to perfect condition which - given the number of 
false dawns previously experienced  - is open  to doubt, it wouldnt alter my decision. Mr E 
made an early request  to reject the vehicle based on reasonable grounds.  The vehicle has 
since suffered further serious issues. I dont think the delays in the complaint process  should  
affect his right to seek this form of redress. Mr E has continued to use the vehicle - but hes 
had little choice.  Whilst his complaint was ongoing he was still liable for contractual 
payments on this vehicle.  And he would presumably have had similar additional  costs  if hed 
sought to find a replacement. The terms of redress will take into account  the use which  Mr E 
has obtained from this vehicle.
Ref: DRN16449564In summary,  Im satisfied  this vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It 
continued to experience several issues even after repairs. And repeated  examples of water 
ingress and faults  with the electrical system  should  not be present in a new vehicle. Theres  
been ample opportunity for repairs  to be completed. But these havent all been  successful. 
The sheer volume of issues indicates this new vehicle also lacked durability.
 
I find that Mr E should now be able to reject the vehicle  and end the agreement. Accordingly 
Im upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I now require FCE Bank Plc to take the following 
action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr E to pay from date of termination;
2.Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr E;
3.Refund the cash deposit of £11,850.50;
4.Refund two monthly  payments to reflect loss of facility and impaired enjoyment of the 
vehicle;
5.Pay Mr E £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience;
6.Arrange for details  of the agreement to be removed from his credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to the refund arising  from item 3 
and 4 above from date of payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1644956