K820x#14complaint
Miss L is the sole director and employee of A, a limited company, and she complains on its 
behalf that Barclays Bank Plcs (t/a Barclaycard) online credit card account service  is 
unavailable. 
background
Miss L, on behalf of A, took out a commercial  credit card with Barclaycard in November 
2018. Miss L has a disability and said that because of this she chose the credit card based  
on being able to manage the account  fully online. 
Miss L said,  from the outset, shed  been  unable to manage her account to check  the 
available balance and the status of payments, and said this has had a negative  impact on 
her business. 
She said the monthly statements  shes sent by post are insufficient  for her to manage the 
account. She said although  she can ask for additional statements to be posted to her, this 
takes three to five days and means  the information  is out of date by the time she receives it. 
Miss L said she expected  to be able to access real time information online when taking out 
the credit  card.
Barclaycard has said Miss L can call to get information about  the credit  card account. 
However, Miss L said that when shes done this, shes sometimes  been provided  with 
inaccurate information. 
Barclaycard acknowledged there was a technical issue with its online service which was 
affecting multiple customers.  While  the issue was being investigated, it couldnt say when 
the problem would be fixed. 
Miss L complained to Barclaycard.  It apologised for the inconvenience caused  by the 
technical issues. It also confirmed thered  been  a delay in raising the online issue with its 
technical team. It said some incorrect balance and pending transaction information had been 
given out during one of Miss Ls calls, and she had been kept on hold for too long when she 
called. It offered a total of £150  in compensation and said it had already paid £50 in 
compensation previously. 
Miss L was dissatisfied with the compensation offered, and complained  to Barclaycard 
again. Barclaycard  said it was aiming to treat all customers fairly by giving consistent 
redress, so it couldnt  offer any more compensation. Barclaycard said it provides monthly 
statements and Miss L can call for any other information she needs. It also said its not 
obliged to provide an online service, as this isnt part of the terms and conditions  of its 
service. 
Miss L also complained  about the advice  she was given when she was originally considering  
taking out the credit  card. As this advice  was given by a Barclays  branch, this was treated as 
a separate complaint against a different arm of the bank.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Ref: DRN16098522Miss L said she chose Barclaycard based  on being able to manage  the credit  card 
account fully online. Barclaycard said the online  service isnt outlined in the terms 
and conditions. But, I also looked  at the Barclaycard webpages a potential 
commercial customer  sees  when making an application. Digital  servicing  with online 
statements is prominently advertised as a feature of the card. So I thought it 
reasonable for Miss L to have  expected that all advertised aspects of the service,  and 
channels of access, would be available most of the time. 
Miss L is disabled and said that shes  prone to extreme bouts of fatigue.  Barclaycard 
said it had been unaware of Miss Ls disability. It said it sympathised with Miss Ls 
position, but this information didnt change its stance on her complaint. I accepted  
what Miss L said about the negative impact the issues with the online service  had on 
her health and ability to work.  As Miss L is As only employee, I thought  it was fair to 
say that the level of inconvenience caused  to A was likely to have been substantial. 
Because of this, I thought its was unreasonable of Barclaycard to limit A to the same 
level of compensation  as other  commercial customers, without taking the differing 
impact into consideration. 
I thought Barclaycard should pay more compensation to A than it had done already, 
given the inconvenience Miss L has described. But I didnt think  it would be 
reasonable to ask Barclaycard to pay ongoing  compensation to A. Having become 
aware of the issues with the online service, Miss L could switch to a different credit 
card provider.
Taking into account the prolonged nature  of the problem with the online service  and 
the substantial  inconvenience this has caused  A, I thought  £500  was a fair amount of 
compensation. 
response to my provisional  decision 
Barclaycard confirmed it accepted my provisional  decision. 
Miss L responded  with further  comments which Ive summarised below: 
she said the online service has not been  fully functioning since she opened the 
account, and other  customers  have  also been affected;  
she said she believes Barclaycard were aware  of the technical issues  before she 
took out the card and should  have informed her, so she has asked for additional 
compensation for this; and
she reiterated she has been given incorrect information about her accounts  over the 
phone including  an incorrect account balance.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id already considered the issues Miss L has raised  when  I issued my provisional  decision. 
So what  shes said hasnt changed my mind. 
Ref: DRN16098523As Barclaycard accepted what I said, and as Miss L hasnt raised anything new, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised 
above. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Barclays Bank Plc to pay £500 in compensation due to the 
inconvenience thats been caused  to A. This is in addition to the compensation its already 
paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L, on behalf 
of A, to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1609852