K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited treated him unfairly by not unblocking his 
drain under his insurance policy. Mr R arranged for the works to be completed privately and 
would like his costs  to be reimbursed.
background
Mr R has a British Gas insurance policy. The policy covers: repairing  and unblocking drains 
to restore flow  but it excludes: cleaning and descaling your drains
British Gas appointed a drains specialist to attend  Mr Rs home due to a blocked  drain.  But it 
was unable to restore flow. The specialist identified the blockage to be a build-up  of fat and 
grease  and it told Mr R that this wasnt covered under his policy  because  a clean and 
descale was required. The specialist offered to complete the works privately, but Mr R 
declined. He arranged  for the works  to be done  by another company, which cost £900.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service,  and it was considered  by one of our investigators. 
He thought the complaint  should be upheld. He didnt think the policy  terms were clear,  and 
concluded the work was unblocking, rather than cleaning or descaling. He recommended  
British Gas reimburse Mr R £900,  and pay him a further £150 for the trouble and upset he 
experienced. Because British Gas disagreed,  the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in response to our investigators assessment British  Gas drains specialist said 
that it did restore flow, but further  maintenance was required. But when it was asked for 
clarification, the specialist  said it didnt claim to have restored flow during every visit. 
The job notes that we have been shown suggest  the specialist first attended to repair  a leak 
below the kitchen sink, which was successful.  But six days later it was called back due to a 
blockage; and it concluded two men and machinery were required, which Mr R would be 
charged for. 
However, whilst  investigating the complaint the specialist told British Gas that it attempted  to 
restore the flow on one occasion  which was unsuccessful, so it re-attended with two men 
and machinery on a second occasion, but this attempt also didnt work.
In conclusion, its not clear whether the specialist attended to unblock the drain  on more than 
one occasion;  or whether machinery was ever used. But nonetheless,  based on the above 
commentary, Im persuaded that the flow was not at any time restored and the blockage 
remained. Therefore,  Im not persuaded only further maintenance was required.
Ref: DRN14067672Under the policy terms, British Gas needs to restore flow to blocked drains. The terms do not 
exclude fat or grease blockages. There also isnt anything in the drains, general, or definition  
sections of the policy book that indicates  clearing such blockages will be treated  as cleaning 
or descaling,  rather than unblocking  nor anything that confirms there will be a charge if a 
blockage cant be cleared using standard equipment.  In my view, in the absence  of such  
policy terms  if a drain doesnt have free-flow  its reasonable to treat the repairs as 
unblocking, rather than cleaning or descaling.  As such, Im persuaded the blockage at 
Mr Rs home  should have been covered by British Gas. 
British Gas drains specialist says £900 for the works is an unacceptable cost. Its also noted 
that the drain was taking rain water  from the guttering,  causing  rain water to back-up into the 
kitchen sink. It said guttering isnt covered by the policy  and the kitchen sink should not be 
plumbed into the rainwater system. However,  although I accept the concerns, the blocked  
drain wasnt caused by rainwater.  The rainwater  simply meant there was a higher risk of 
flooding in the kitchen in the event of a blockage. In terms of cost,  Mr Rs invoice doesnt 
suggest any repairs were  completed other than unblocking, so Im satisfied British  Gas 
should cover  the invoice  in full. These costs wouldnt have been incurred had the policy  
terms been applied  fairly.
So in conclusion, British  Gas should  settle Mr Rs claim by reimbursing him £900  interest  
should also be added to that amount at a rate of 8% simple, calculated  from the date Mr R 
paid the invoice, until the date of settlement. I also agree with our investigator  that Mr R 
should be compensated £150 for the trouble and upset hes been  caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is British  Gas Insurance Limited  should:
reimburse Mr R the £900  he paid for the works;  
add interest at a rate of 8% simple to the settlement, calculated from the date the 
invoice was paid until the date of settlement; and
pay Mr R £150 for the trouble and upset  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1406767