K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs K took out in September 1995 through  a 
postal application.
Mrs K .says  through her representative,  that there is no straightforward way to assess how 
much the policy  would cost so there  was no way she could find out if it was value for money 
or not. She says the policy  was mis-sold  to her.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint and I will explain why.
I have first of all looked into whether Mrs K was given a choice to have the MPPI  policy. This 
has been a difficult  issue for me to consider as I havent been able to see the sales  
documentation that would have been used at the time of sale. Although this is 
understandable due to the many  years that have passed since the date of sale.  
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also read    
Mrs Ks recollections. Having done this, I cant be sure what  happened  when the policy was 
added. Its completely understandable  that Mrs Ks recollections are not detailed  and as I 
have already said the sale took place many  years ago. And because of this and considering  
what I know of sales carried out by Barclays at that time, I dont think  the evidence  is strong 
enough for me safely to say it didnt give clear  information on the application  form that PPI 
was an optional feature.  I havent, on this occasion, seen  enough  evidence  to be able to 
safely draw that conclusion.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. It did have to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading.
It is possible the information Barclays gave Mrs K about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But I dont think this would have  made  a difference to Mrs Ks decision to have 
the policy. I say this because although Mrs K told us that she was entitled  to some sick pay 
(up to 6 months), I can see the policy would have paid more than her minimum credit  card 
repayments for up to 12 months if she couldnt  work, providing  a useful extra benefit at a 
difficult time. And she doesnt appear  to have had significant other  means to make her credit  
card repayments over an extended period  if she couldnt work. She was also not affected by 
any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently  
affordable.
Ref: DRN15293522So I think it unlikely Mrs K would  have made  a different decision if better  information  had 
been provided. On balance  I think  she would  still have taken out the policy. This means 
Barclays dont have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K. But Barclays  has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs K about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs K, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs K any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1529352