K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The policy provided cover for their mortgage repayments if Mr F was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. But Mr and Mrs F disagree so 
the complaint  has been brought to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 18 July 2018, I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold  the 
complaint and I invited  both parties  to provide any further submissions before I reached a 
final decision. Since then, Mr and Mrs F and their representatives have put a significant  
amount of effort into providing  details of, and evidence of, other  policies and financial 
products they had which they feel made the PPI policy unsuitable for them.  Theyve also 
said they believed  the PPI had been sold in 1987 because, when they complained about 
PPI, Lloyds sent them Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage  application  documents  from 1987. Lloyds 
did not make  any new submissions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that: 
Currently, I dont think the policy was mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives  believe  the PPI mightve been sold in 1987 when 
they initially took their mortgage. But Lloyds says they didnt buy it until 2001. Ive 
seen a copy of their mortgage  application  form from 2001 and can see PPI was 
selected at this time. The box requesting  PPI cover  has been ticked, they answered 
the eligibility questions and signed the form. Ive seen nothing suggesting the PPI 
was sold any earlier. Based on what Ive seen, I think the PPI was sold in 2001, and 
as Mr and Mrs F didnt  take PPI in 1987, they wouldve known they didnt have to 
take it in 2001.  So I think its more likely Lloyds made it clear Mr and Mrs F didnt 
have to take out the PPI and they chose it to cover Mr F only.
Lloyds recommended the PPI so it had to check that it was right for them  and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Mr F (as the sole policy holder) was eligible for the policy. Mr F was self-
employed and some  policies do make  it difficult for self-employed  people  to make 
claims for unemployment. But Ive had a look at this policy  and I think  Mr F couldve 
made a successful claim for unemployment should he have needed  to. He also 
doesnt appear to be affected by any of the other  exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover.
Ref: DRN14027512I understand Mr and Mrs F say they had another policy available. And while Ive seen 
they had some form of protection in 1989,  Ive seen  nothing to suggest  it was still in 
force when they bought  the PPI. Ive also asked  for more details about when this 
policy would pay out, how long it would provide cover for, and whether  there  were  
any waiting periods before it would pay a claim. Without this, I havent seen or heard 
enough to make me think they didnt need the PPI. I would also clarify that life cover 
doesnt provide  the same  type of cover as PPI. So based on what Ive seen so far, I 
still think Mr and Mrs F had a need for cover and couldve  found  the policy to be 
useful.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose  to take it out to cover Mr F - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about whether Lloyds  needs  to give Mr and Mrs F some  of the commission they 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreements   including a regulated mortgage. As their mortgage  
became a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need  
to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs Fs representatives have said.  And while  Lloyds may 
have reviewed the documents from Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage application from 1987, nothing  
on these documents  shows  that PPI was sold at this time. As I said in my provisional 
decision, from what Ive seen, I think it was sold in 2001. Mr and Mrs F also took a further  
advance in 2007, but again did not take PPI at this time. 
In their most  recent submissions to our service, Mr and Mrs F have described  a number of 
other financial products  theyd purchased  over a number of years  which  they felt showed 
they were adequately protected  so they didnt  need PPI. They feel that had Lloyds done 
what it was supposed  to, they wouldnt have  purchased PPI. 
Theyve mentioned  a range of varying products from life cover, endowment  policies to 
pensions and disablement cover. While theyve been unable to provide evidence that these 
were in place in 2001 when they bought the PPI, or much detail as to what  they paid out or 
when they wouldve paid out, Ive heard  enough  to accept they likely did have some sort of 
cover in place when they took the PPI. So Ive thought carefully  about  whether potentially 
having any of these products made  the PPI unsuitable for them  and whether Lloyds was 
wrong to recommend the PPI. 
Mr F has sent in a document showing he had a policy that did provide  some cover for 
disablement and sickness. Ive seen no evidence  that it was in place in 2001 and as 
explained above I dont have much  detail about  it. For example, I dont know when it 
wouldve paid out, how long it wouldve paid out for or what  the waiting periods were.  I also 
note the sickness  benefit was only £150  a month.  So even if this policy was still in force,  I 
dont think having  it meant  Mr F didnt  need to PPI. His income  was significantly more than 
that so if had he been unable to work due to sickness for example; having the PPI pay out 
wouldve still been useful.  As he was self-employed,  he didnt have any sick pay that he 
couldve used either. 
Ref: DRN14027513The remaining  types of products dont  provide  the same type of cover as PPI. The PPI 
wouldve paid out if Mr F was unable to work because of illness,  injury or unemployment. So 
I dont think having  the sorts of products Mr and Mrs F have mentioned  meant the PPI 
wouldnt have been useful for them. Overall,  I dont think  Lloyds  was wrong to recommend 
they take the PPI. It was then up to Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject their recommendation, 
and as Ive mentioned in my provisional  decision, I think they chose to take the PPI. 
As they didnt take PPI in 1987 when they first took the mortgage,  they wouldve known they 
didnt need PPI to get the mortgage. And they clearly selected  to take cover in 2001   this is 
evidence from the point of sale which holds significant weight. 
In summary,  based on everything Ive seen, to me it looks like Mr and Mrs F wouldve known 
the PPI was optional and they still chose to take it. It wasnt unsuitable and it provided them  
with useful protection which  I think they wouldve appreciated  if Mr F couldnt find work or 
had been unable to work because of illness or injury. Having again reviewed Mr and Mrs Fs 
case in full, I find no reason to depart  from my original findings  as set out in my provisional  
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1402751