K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that he was mis-sold an Advantage Gold account in May 2004. This 
account was migrated to a Select Platinum account in July 2015 and was changed to a 
Reward Platinum account  in December 2015.  
As the migration was essentially a rebranding  of the Advantage  Gold account, rather than 
the sale of a new packaged  account,  we have not looked into the Select Platinum change.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Es complaint and didnt think  NatWest had mis-sold 
the packaged account. Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide what to do about Mr Es complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that NatWest mis-sold  the 
Advantage Gold packaged  account  to Mr E. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr E was given a clear  choice in taking the Advantage 
Gold account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely  than not to have  happened having  weighed up what  Mr 
E and NatWest have  said and been able to provide  me with.
Mr Es account opened as an Advantage Gold account but Mr E has confirmed  that he did 
have a fee free account prior to this - albeit with another  provider. So I think Mr E wouldve 
known free accounts were an option for him. 
Mr E says he was told he had to have  the packaged  accounts to get an overdraft.  I can see 
that he did not actually apply for an overdraft until February 2005 and when the overdraft 
was applied only £50 was applied for. I do not think that it is likely that someone would agree 
to pay £9 a month for an overdraft that they did not need at the time the account was 
opened. In addition to this, I can see that Mr E barely used  his overdraft for some time after 
the overdraft was added to the account.
Overall I am not satisfied  that it is likely that Mr E was told that he had to take out the 
account in order  to get an overdraft or that he took out the account  for this purpose.  I do note 
that the Advantage Gold did come with a preferential interest rate so it may have been this 
that Mr E recalls being  told about. Given this, I believe that Mr E had a fair choice in taking 
out the Advantage Gold account and he chose to do so knowing he did not have  to.
NatWest has said that it did not personally  recommend the account.  Mr E said that a 
personal recommendation was made  but the reason he gives for this is that he was told he 
needed to take out the account in order to get an overdraft. For the reasons set out above, I 
dont think this was likely  to have happened. So I think its more  likely  that the sale of the 
Advantage Gold account took place without a personal recommendation from NatWest.
Ref: DRN17993492So NatWest  didnt have  to check if the account  was right for him. It was up to Mr E to decide 
this, taking into account what the package  included. But NatWest did have  to give him the 
important information  about the account  to do this.  
I do think that its likely NatWests representative did talk about the benefits and at least 
provided an overview of what  the account  included. After all they were looking to make the 
account appear as attractive as possible so Mr E would agree to pay the monthly  fee when 
he most likely  knew  he didnt have  to. 
The other main benefit when Mr E took out the Advantage Gold account was travel 
insurance, reduced interest rates on overdrafts and loans and accidental death cover. Mr E 
says that he rarely travelled, but even so, I think that something about  the account  benefits 
persuaded him to take out this account.
It may have been the case that Mr E was not told everything about all of the benefits  that the 
Advantage Gold account came with but I cant see anything  specific that Mr E was not told 
that I think wouldve  altered his decision  to take out the account.
Mr E may now, with the benefit of hindsight, think he shouldnt have taken out the Advantage 
Gold account. And given  what he mightve read or heard about packaged accounts, I can 
understand why this might now lead him to believe his account  was mis-sold. But I think  Mr 
E chose  to take the account after having been provided with an explanation  about what  it 
included. And although  Mr E may now question his reasons for taking the account, as he 
now believes  it hasnt proved to be value for money, this doesnt mean it was mis-sold. So 
I want to reassure Mr E that having  looked at all the information provided  and thought about 
everything hes said, I dont think NatWest mis-sold his Advantage Gold account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1799349