K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Countrywide Assured Plc unfairly turned down his claim for critical 
illness benefit. 
All references to Countrywide include its predecessor  business and claims handlers. 
background
Mr P holds a Fixed  Term Life Cover with Critical illness Cover policy with Countrywide. 
Cover started in May 1997 and is due to run for 24 years. The policy provides £250,000 
worth of cover, payable  if Mr P dies or is diagnosed  with a listed  critical illness  during the 
policy term. 
Mr P was sadly  diagnosed with transitional  cell carcinoma,  a form of cancer that occurred in 
his kidney, in 2016. He required  surgery to remove his right kidney, ureter  and part of his 
bladder. 
Mr P contacted Countrywide  in August 2018  to make a claim under the policy.  Having 
obtained and considered  relevant medical evidence about Mr Ps diagnosis, Countrywide 
explained it couldnt accept the claim.  It said the evidence  confirmed  his cancer was 
non-invasive, which  isnt covered by the policy.  
Mr P appealed the decision. He felt that the evidence  that he had a large and high grade 
kidney cancer should  constitute a critical illness under the policy. He also highlighted a case  
that had previously been considered and upheld by our service,  where  a consumer had been 
diagnosed with a similar type of cancer  and had undergone  the same surgery. 
Countrywide reconsidered the claim but maintained its decision to decline  it. It explained that 
Mr Ps histopathology report confirmed his cancer  was non-invasive,  and therefore  not 
covered by the policy. It explained that the grading of the cancer was inconsequential, as 
this didnt form part of the policy definition of cancer. It also explained that the policy  didnt 
provide cover for the removal of Mr Ps kidney and other tissue.  It didnt comment on the 
other case Mr P had highlighted because it didnt have full details, but it did highlight another 
case where an ombudsman had agreed  that tumours  histologically classified as non-invasive 
arent covered.
Mr P remained unhappy  so he referred his complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied the available  medical 
evidence didnt support that Mr Ps cancer  had spread into surrounding tissue, so he was 
satisfied that Countrywide was entitled  to turn down the claim. He explained  that while there  
may have  been  similarities between Mr Ps case and the one hed seen in the press,  each 
case is considered  on its own merits and the evidence in his case  didnt support he met the 
policy definition. 
Mr P remained dissatisfied so the matter has been  referred to me to reach a final decision.
Mr P has raised a very similar complaint against  another insurer, which  Im also considering  
under a separate complaint. Given the facts and circumstances of the two complaints are 
almost identical I hope  Mr P will understand why there will be considerable overlap in my 
findings between  the two cases. 
Ref: DRN16551462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator.  I appreciate this is going  to come 
as serious disappointment  to Mr P, so Id like to explain  how Ive reached this conclusion.  
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear of Mr Ps ill-health. Its clear from the evidence 
that hes been through a very difficult time, both having received his diagnosis and also 
undergoing significant surgery. I do hope  his health  has now improved.  
policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions explain that for a claim  to be met, the policyholder must 
have been diagnosed with one of the listed critical illnesses. Cancer is specifically defined 
as: 
A malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled  growth and spread of malignant  cells
and the invasion  of tissue. This includes leukaemia, but excludes:
i) non-invasive cancer-in-situ;
ii) tumours  in the presence  of HIV;
iii) any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma.
The policy definition is clear that for a claim to be met there must be evidence that the 
tumour is both malignant and has invaded other tissue. Thats  to say the cancer has spread 
from its original  site to surrounding  tissue. No cover is provided for non-invasive cancers. 
Similarly, cover isnt offered depending on the severity of the treatment received. 
While this definition may seem on the face of it restrictive, and potentially even unfair, 
Im satisfied it complies with industry  best practice at the time. No policy  can provide cover 
for all serious illnesses a person may experience  to do so would make policies like this 
prohibitively expensive.  So policies such as this provide  cover  for a number of the most  
serious forms of commonly suffered critical illnesses.  
Its not my role to seek to extend  the scope of these  policies. Instead I have to carefully  
consider the available  medical evidence alongside the policy  definition,  to decide  if 
Countrywide has reached a fair and reasonable conclusion in all the circumstances. 
Having carefully considered the available medical evidence,  Im satisfied that Mr Ps tumour 
did not meet  the policy definition of cancer.  Its clear that Mr P had a very large tumour that 
required extensive treatment to remove, but the evidence from his treating specialists and 
the histopathology report are clear  that the cancer  was non-invasive.  
The histopathology report  completed after Mr Ps surgery  confirmed there was no evidence 
of invasion. And after microscopic testing of the tumour, Mr Ps diagnosis was confirmed as 
non-invasive, Grade 2 papillary Transitional Cell Carcinoma. When Mr Ps consultant  
urological surgeon, who Ill call Dr N, was asked to confirm the staging of the cancer he 
stated it was TaN0M0.  From  my understanding, this once again indicates that there had 
been no invasion into other tissue.
Mr P has more  recently asked Dr N to comment on his diagnosis and whether the treatment 
was likely to be curative.  I note in his letter,  Dr N explains that Mr Ps tumour  was multi-focal, 
Ref: DRN16551463meaning there were  multiple tumours present which extended over a considerable area of 
the collecting system of his kidney. But he confirmed the tumour was proved to be a pTa 
grade 2. He explained With pTa  this is a pathological descriptor, which  described  the 
depth of invasion  into deeper layers  of the ureteric wall or kidney. As a pTa, whilst the 
tumour involves the urothelium, there is no actual disruption of its overall structure. The 
tumour was also grade 2, which is an intermediate gradeIn terms of tumour  stage,  this 
was obviously very favourable  given the lack of definite invasion. 
So while Dr N explains the extent of the tumour and the radical treatment  needed to treat it, 
hes confirmed that the tumour hadnt  invaded other  tissue, as the policy  definition  requires.  
Without evidence  that there has been  invasion of tissue, I cant say Countrywide  acted  
unfairly or unreasonably by declining the claim.   
I understand Mr P decided to pursue this complaint after he became aware, through  the 
media, that a case with similarities to his own had been upheld  by our service.  While I can 
understand this wouldve given Mr P reason to question whether his claim had been  
considered correctly in 2016. But as the investigator  has explained each case is considered 
on its own merit - and importantly for cases like this on the particular medical evidence. I 
cant comment specifically on the case Mr P has referred to, but as Ive explained  above  Im 
satisfied that the medical evidence in this case  doesnt support that he meets the policy  
definition of cancer. 
While I appreciate this will come  as a serious  disappointment to Mr P I cant  say 
Countrywide has acted  unfairly or unreasonably  in the assessment of his claim or complaint, 
so Im not asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1655146