K820x#14complaint
Mr B says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. The PPI was taken  out in 1999.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 26 November 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this PPI policy hadnt been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by     
26 December 2018. But neither Mr B nor MBNA have  sent me anything  new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11687112copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B says MBNA  Limited (MBNA)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in
1999.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because she didnt think MBNA gave Mr B enough  information  
about policys  cost and benefits. She concluded that, had Mr B been given  better  information about 
the policy,  he wouldnt have  taken  it out.
MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr Bs case.
Im planning to not uphold Mr Bs complaint  and Ill explain why.
MBNA has told us the PPI was sold during a telephone call, after Mr B applied for his credit card by 
post. Mr B says he doesnt  recall taking out a separate PPI policy  or having  any conversations with 
MBNA about the PPI. Because the parties dont agree on how the PPI was sold,  Ive had to decide 
what I think is most likely to have happened based on the information  I have.
MBNA has provided us with a copy of Mr Bs credit card application form, which shows  Mr B initially 
declined the PPI by placing  a tick in the no box for the PPI. MBNA has also sent us copies of its 
internal system notes which it says shows the PPI was sold to Mr B during a telephone call after he 
applied for his credit card. So, based on what Ive seen,  I think its most likely  that this was the case. 
While I appreciate that Mr B doesnt recall having a conversation with MBNA about the PPI, I dont 
find this surprising due to the significant amount of time thats  passed since the sale took place.
Mr B says he doesnt recall agreeing to take out a separate  PPI policy. But hes also told us he 
thought he had to take out the PPI in order to have  the credit card.  Based on what  Mr Bs told us, I 
find it hard to reconcile his complaint points.  So, Ive thought about whats most likely to have 
happened taking all available information into account.
MBNA has told us that due to the length of time thats passed since the sale of the PPI, it no longer 
has a copy of the telephone call recording. Because of this, I dont know what  was discussed or how 
the policy  was presented during this telephone call.
But, looking  at Mr Bs signed  credit  card application  form, I can see that Mr B had the option of 
accepting or declining  the PPI. And MBNAs records show the PPI was added  to Mr Bs credit card 
after he took it out. So, I think Mr B wouldve understood that the PPI was an optional  product and that 
he didnt need to take it out in order to have  the credit  card.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed  to decide for himself if it was right for him.
Ref: DRN11687113Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I 
think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover. Based  on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mr B was affected by any of the exclusions  
to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would  have  been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would  have put him 
off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including  what  hes said about  the additional income he 
received, but this doesnt change my position. From what  Mr Bs told us about  his circumstances 
around the time of sale,  he appears to have  been  the main earner  in his household. Hes also told us 
he had no savings and thinks he wouldve only been entitled to limited  sick pay in the event he was 
too unwell to work.
In addition to this, Mr Bs completed credit card application form shows  he had two additional  financial 
commitments. This means Mr B had other financial commitments  hed need to satisfy, in the event 
that hed lost his job or was unable to work  due to illness.
Having thought about what Mr Bs told us about  his additional income, I still think  he wouldve found 
the PPI useful. When comparing his additional  income  to his salary,  I think that Mr Bs household  
income wouldve been  significantly reduced if he was no longer in receipt of his salary. So, I think  the 
PPI wouldve been useful for Mr B.
So, based on what Ive said above, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr B 
off taking out the PPI.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im planning to not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
If MBNA or Mr B has anything  further to add before I issue my decision on this matter, they
should make  sure anything they send reaches  me by 26 December 2018.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1168711