K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in March 2000. Ms D says Canada Square Operations  Limited (trading 
as Egg), mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in March  2000. The policy  was 
added to Ms Cs credit  card account  when she applied for the card online. The policy cost 
59p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following  a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ds case.  Having done that, Ive decided  not to uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Ive looked at the policy document  and am satisfied  that Ms D was eligible under the policy.
Ms D says that the optional nature of the policy  wasnt  made clear to her  she says she 
didnt choose  the policy and she didnt  know she had it  it was added  to her account  without 
either her knowledge or her consent..  Canada Square disagrees. So Ive looked  to the 
information available from the time of the sale to help me decide how the policy was 
presented to Ms D.
Canada Square  has given us screen shots from the time of the sale.  These screen shots 
present the policy as optional  it gives the consumer  two equally prominent options  to either 
say yes or no to PPI. So it appears  to me Ms D was given a choice about  whether or not 
she wanted to purchase  PPI.
Ive also seen a copy of Canada Squares  internal  system records that record what 
information Ms D input when she made her credit  card application. This includes details of 
her employer; her salary; her email address; her mothers maiden  name   and I can see she 
chose to buy PPI. And as it appeared on her monthly statements, had it been added to her 
account without  either  her knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected  her to query and 
complain about  it in the first few months following the opening of her credit  card account. 
And Ive seen no evidence that she did.
I dont think Canada Square advised  Ms D to take the policy out. I say this because there 
doesnt appear to have  been any involvement from a representative at the time of the sale 
as the application was completed on the internet. This means Canada Square didnt have to 
take adequate steps to ensure the policy was suitable for her.
But it still had to give Ms D information  in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that she 
could make a proper choice about  whether or not to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN17135022I cant say that Canada Square  did give Ms D all the information as it shouldve. So I have  to 
go on and consider whether Ms D wouldve still taken the policy  out if she had been given all 
of the information as she shouldve been. But having done this, I dont think better  
information wouldve  put Ms D off taking the policy out. I say this because:
-Although Ms D has told us she wouldve been  entitled to some  sick pay from her 
employer, the policy wouldve  paid out in addition  to this. It would also have covered 
her if she lost her job. Ms D also said she couldve relied upon family  for help. While I 
understand the point she seeks to make, there could be no guarantee that her 
familys financial circumstances wouldve allowed them to help her at some unknown 
point in the future.
-The policy was competitively priced  and I cant see that it was unaffordable  for Ms D 
and as Ms D was paying for the policy on a monthly basis, she couldve cancelled the 
policy at any point  without penalty.
-Ms D wasnt affected by the more restrictive terms  in the policy,  such as those 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working arrangements   she 
told us she was employed and in good  health in March  2000 when she took the 
policy out.
So based  on the above I think the policy wouldve been of good value for money in Ms Ds 
circumstances.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms D because:  
Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Ms D about that. Because Canada  Square didnt 
tell Ms D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square  has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms D has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Ms D any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1713502