K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Mrs L complained because Barclays Bank PLC told them it planned to reduce their 
Mortgage Current Account Reserve  limit. Mr M and Mrs L wrote saying they didnt want the 
limit reduced, but they didnt hear back from Barclays.
background 
Mr M and Mrs L took an interest  only mortgage with Barclays in 2007.  The offer was for just 
under £217,000. It set out that the mortgage had a Mortgage Current  Account Reserve 
facility which  could  be used to draw down additional  secured borrowing. 
Over the years, Barclays wrote several times to Mr M and Mrs L about the reserve limit. It 
wrote again  in June  2018.  The letter said that Barclays had noticed that Mr M and Mrs Ls 
mortgage reserve limit might be higher than they required, based  on how theyd used it. The 
bank said it intended  to reduce their Mortgage Current Account Reserve limit from £85,550 
to £84,400. The letter said they didnt need  to do anything if they were happy with the limit, 
but should ring if they wanted  a lower or higher  limit. The letter  pointed  out that as the bank 
no longer offered a Mortgage  Current Account Reserve product, once a limit had been 
reduced it couldnt be increased again.
Mr M and Mrs L didnt  phone, but they wrote  to Barclays  to complain on 28 July. They said 
Your  cursory and arbitrary analysis of our Mortgage Reserve requirements is unsettling, 
irritating and incorrect. They explained  they hadnt  used the account much  in recent months  
because it was close to its limit. But they pointed out theyd exceeded the proposed new limit 
only the previous  December, so it was ridiculous to say the limit might be higher than they 
required. They said they didnt want to have  their limit reduced,  and had plenty of equity in 
their home. They wanted the limit to remain at at least  the previous level.
Barclays acknowledged by text, but didnt  send a substantive reply. And it reduced the limit 
at the end of August. So Mr M and Mrs L complained to this service. 
When our investigator contacted Barclays, the bank apologised for its service failure in not 
correctly logging and responding  to Mr M and Mrs Ls complaint. It offered to pay Mr M and 
Mrs L £250 compensation for this. But the bank didnt agree to reinstate the limit back  to 
£85,500. Barclays said that the terms and conditions showed that it could  review  and alter 
limits. It pointed  out that it needed to have  a discussion about whether the lending  level was 
still suitable and manageable. And the amount  of equity in the property, which Mr M and Mrs 
L had pointed  to, wasnt the only requirement.
The investigator noted that Mr M and Mrs L hadnt  phoned Barclays,  as the banks June 
letter had told them to if they wanted to keep the old limit. This process was so that the bank 
could establish  whether  the reserve was suitable and affordable. But the investigator also 
said that if Barclays had responded  to Mr M and Mrs Ls letter as it should have done,  the 
necessary phone discussion could have taken  place. So the investigator  thought  it was only 
fair that Mr M and Mrs L could still have the opportunity  of this discussion.
The investigator recognised that Mr M and Mrs L didnt think Barclays  should  reduce the limit 
because this was set when they took out the mortgage. But the investigator set out the terms 
and conditions which allow the bank to do this. Section 8, Our right to withdraw  or vary the 
Mortgage Current Account sets this out. Among  other situations, it says it can do this if:
Ref: DRN19302392your circumstances  have changed since we originally agreed the amount of the Mortgage 
Current Account reserve with you and we reasonably believe that this will negatively impact  
on your ability to pay us any amounts as set out in these conditions or
we reasonably believe that such action  is necessary for us to comply with our obligations 
as a responsible  lender and that our failure to act would negatively impact your ability  to pay 
us any amounts set out in these conditions.
So the investigator said that Barclays could  vary the limit, and it was reasonable for the bank 
to carry out affordability  checks to ensure  the limit was still suitable.
Mr M and Mrs L didnt  accept this. They wanted  Barclays to waive its requirement for 
underwriting, and restore the previous limit. They said that:
-in the absence from any reply from Barclays, theyd asked for the previous limit to be 
restored. They questioned whether theyd get a fair hearing if they had to submit to 
an affordability check; 
-they felt theyd been criticized for writing  instead  of phoning Barclays. They said 
theyd done this in the mistake  belief the bank would  pay more attention to a written 
letter;
-they were responsible  borrowers,  and there wasnt  anything in their credit history 
which would make Barclays  think otherwise. Mr M and Mrs L said the bank 
insinuated that it was to be trusted,  but they werent;
-they were within the original limit and there was plenty of equity. So they asked how 
this was unacceptable;
-they asked  about  Barclays assessment of how the account had been  used,  and 
whether this was over the last 12 months  or the whole period of the loan. They said 
theyd managed the loan responsibly  from the outset;
-in regard to the terms and conditions, Mr M and Mrs L said that of course  
circumstances change  over time,  but they werent in arrears,  and the debt was 
secured on a UK asset, and the bank was charging them for the facility.
Mr M and Mrs L also said that the investigator had put small print over the original agreed 
credit facility. They said theyd hoped this organisation  would be more robust when 
representing consumers  in the unequal  struggle for a fair hearing  with a giant financial 
institution. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Mrs L have  raised multiple  points in their submissions to the service.  Ive 
understood and looked  into all of those, but Ive commented on what  I think is vital to my 
conclusions. 
Ref: DRN19302393First, Id explain that this service doesnt  represent consumers. Were impartial, and our role 
is to reach  a fair and reasonable decision about the complaints we look at  based  on the 
facts of each individual case.
Barclays should have  replied to Mr M and Mrs Ls complaint, and it didnt. This was a 
customer service  failure, and I find that the £250  which Barclays  has offered is fair and 
reasonable compensation for this omission.
Going on to look at the content  of Mr M and Mrs Ls complaint,  the key is the terms and 
conditions to which they signed  up when  they took out the mortgage with its Mortgage  
Current Account Reserve. I note that theyve argued that the investigator  put small print over 
the original agreed  credit  facility. But the original  agreed credit facility  was always subject  to 
the small print, and Mr M and Mrs L had signed  up to accept that by taking out the mortgage.
The terms and conditions,  which Ive set out above, clearly show  that the bank had the 
power to reduce the limit  or, in fact, withdraw  it completely. I find that under the terms and 
conditions, and its duties  as a responsible lender, Barclays was entitled to satisfy itself that 
the lending was affordable and that Mr M and Mrs L had a repayment  plan in place.
Mr M and Mrs L argue  that Barclays should have considered  it sufficient that they werent  in 
arrears and that the debt was secured on a UK asset, on which Mr M and Mrs L asserted 
there was plenty of equity.  But lenders  are entitled  to take their own decisions on how they 
assess whether or not to lend,  or to continue  to lend. They dont  have to accept what a 
borrower considers  would be suitable  lending criteria. So I find that Barclays was entitled to 
take its own decisions about lending criteria for Mr M and Mrs Ls Mortgage Current Account 
Reserve. And I find that it was entirely  reasonable that any such assessment  would  include 
requiring borrowers to provide  information  about their financial circumstances, including  
income and expenditure.
So I dont  require Barclays to reinstate  Mr M and Mrs Ls former limit without undertaking 
and satisfactorily meeting  the banks normal processes and requirements. I note that the 
banks original letter set a deadline of 30 August  for them to phone if they wished to retain 
their current  limit. But as Mr M and Mrs L wrote  to Barclays before that date, they should  
have another  opportunity to undertake this assessment, if they wish to do so. If they wish to 
take this up, they should contact Barclays within  one month  of accepting this final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that:
-I uphold Mr M and Mrs Ls complaint  that Barclays Bank PLC did not reply  to their 
service complaint and I order  Barclays Bank PLC to pay Mr M and Mrs L £250 
compensation.
-I do not uphold  Mr M and Mrs Ls complaint that Barclays  Bank PLC should  reinstate 
their former Mortgage Current  Account Reserve limit, without them  undertaking and 
satisfactorily meeting  the banks normal processes and requirements. 
I leave it to Mr M and Mrs L to decide whether  or not they wish to contact Barclays to 
complete the banks  processes so that they can be assessed regarding the limit on their 
Mortgage Current Account Reserve.  If they wish to do so, they should  take up this offer 
within one month of accepting this final decision.
Ref: DRN19302394Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1930239