K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the handling of a claim by Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  under 
his motor insurance policy
background
In April 2017 Mr L was involved in a road traffic  accident. The police told Admiral that Mr L 
had been breathalysed  at the roadside  and the police station. In both tests the reading was 
45 mg / 100 ml of breath.  The legal limit was 35 mg / 100 ml of breath.
Despite this, the criminal  prosecution against Mr L was dismissed. Thats because the police 
officers who'd  taken the readings hadn't switched their radios to 'transit inhibit mode'.
Admiral declined Mr Ls claim  under  the terms and conditions of the policy.  It said that on the 
balance of probabilities, it considered that Mr L was over the legal limit of alcohol at the time 
of the accident.  
As the issuer of a certificate  of insurance,  Admiral  was legally obliged to indemnify the third 
parties to the accident. So it has sought  to recover  its outlay from Mr L. Mr L is particularly 
unhappy about this. He says the breathalyser readings arent  valid because the police didnt 
follow the correct  procedures, so the police have lost all credibility. He also points out that he 
wasnt convicted of drink driving. So he thinks Admiral have treated him unfairly.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He didnt  think Admiral had done  anything 
wrong. He said that in making its decision,  Admiral relied (amongst other  things) on what the 
police had told it about the results  of the relevant  breath tests. Admirals  terms and 
conditions say that if a person is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol or to be 
found driving whilst unfit through  drink  or drugs no cover under the policy will be provided. 
Our investigator accepted that the criminal case against Mr L was dismissed. But he said 
that if Mr Ls case against Admiral were  to go to court, it would be a civil law case. 
Evidential requirements are different in criminal  and civil cases. Civil law cases have to be 
proved on the balance  of probabilities  not beyond  reasonable doubt. So Admiral was 
entitled to rely on the evidence the police had provided it with and come  to the conclusion 
that on the balance of probabilities, Mr L was over the legal limit of alcohol at the time of the 
accident.
 
Our investigator said that along with the results of the breathalyser  readings he could see 
that under  the drink drive  booklet completed  by the police it said that "there is no evidence  or 
reason to suggest that EBTIs (Evidential breath Testing Instruments) are affected  by radios 
or mobile  telephones". Mr L said that was only the relevant police officers opinion.  He made 
other arguments when  he first complained  to Admiral, and hed sent it a copy  of an expert  
witness statement that had been  prepared on his behalf, but it he didnt pursue those points 
with our service.
Mr L remained unhappy, so he asked for this case to be reviewed.
Ref: DRN14756412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Admirals terms  and conditions are clear that if a person  is found  to be over the prescribed 
limit for alcohol or to be found  driving whilst unfit through  drink  or drugs no cover under  the 
policy will be provided.
The terms and conditions  go on to say that:
If an accident happens whilst You or any person entitled to drive under Section 5 of Your 
current Certificate of Motor Insurance:
is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol
is driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs,  whether  prescribed or otherwise
fails to provide  a sample of breath, blood  or urine when required to do so, without 
lawful reason
No cover under the policy will be provided  and instead, liability  will be restricted to meeting  
the obligations as required by Road  Traffic law. In those circumstances, We will recover from 
You or the driver, all sums  paid (including  all legal costs), whether in settlement or under a 
Judgment, of any claim arising from the accident.
So if Admiral  considered that Mr L was over the prescribed limit for alcohol at the time of the 
accident, it was entitled  to decline  Mr Ls claim. As it was legally obliged to indemnify the 
third parties to the accident, it would also be entitled  to recover its outlay from Mr L.
The crux of Mr Ls argument  is that the criminal case against him for drink driving was 
dismissed by the criminal court, so Admiral cant  say that he was over the prescribed limit for 
alcohol at the time of the accident.  He argues that because the police officers  who'd  taken  
the readings hadn't switched their radios  to 'transit  inhibit mode', the readings were  invalid,  
and shouldnt have  been relied on.
I understand Mr Ls argument. However, having considered all the available evidence  I think  
Admiral was entitled to take the view that on the balance of probabilities  Mr L was over the 
prescribed limit for alcohol at the time of the accident. I say this because  theres no dispute 
that in both breath tests Mr L was found to be over the prescribed limit. I appreciate  that Mr L 
thinks that the breathalyser evidence is invalidated  by the fact that the police  made a 
procedural mistake when  they failed to switch their radios to 'transit inhibit mode'. But Im 
afraid I disagree. The mistake meant that the breathalyser evidence  wasnt  admissible in a 
criminal trial. It didnt  mean that Admiral wasnt able to use the breathalyser evidence  when it 
considered whether Mr L was over the legal limit or not when the accident  happened.
For completeness I should also say that Ive asked  Admiral for its thoughts on the expert 
witness statement that Mr L had sent it. It didnt appear that Mr L had pursued the arguments 
in it with Admiral or with us, and Admiral  didnt comment  on it in its final response. Admiral  
told us that it was on its file, so it had been  considered. But less weight was put on this that 
the breathalyser  readings the police took. Thats because it was based on Mr Ls account 
about what happened and how much he had had to drink. I understand why it took this view 
and Im satisfied it was reasonable to do so. 
Ref: DRN14756413Taking the matter  as whole, I understand why Admiral reached the decision it did. Im 
satisfied that its decision  was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It follows  that I 
dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1475641