K821x#15complaint
B, a limited  company, complains that Paymentsense  Limited made errors in dealing  with its 
application for a merchant  processing  account,  resulting in financial loss.
background
B made an application  to Paymentsense  for merchant services  processing in October 2017. 
This was to include a merchant account  with a third party card issuer.  B was able to process  
transactions from customers that used cards held with that third party card issuer. But B did 
not receive any settlement from those transactions because its account had not been 
established with all the required documentation.  This was corrected in June 2018.  
B was told in August 2018 by Paymentsense that it would  only receive payments for 
transactions received in the last six months  after the date the account was properly set up. 
So B says it has not received payments of £2,685.25 of the total of £5,511.70 processed  by 
then with that card issuer.  Paymentsense  said it was not responsible for this loss but offered 
to pay B £250 in compensation  and give a £50 account credit.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld  and B be paid £2.685.25, plus 
eight per cent simple  interest from the date of each transaction to the date of settlement. He 
said that Paymentsense had not told B about  the policy of the third party card issuer. 
Although it had not itself set that policy or the requirements for the account  to be established, 
it had not given B the information  it needed  to mitigate its loss. And an email it sent B on 11 
May 2018 indicated  that B would  be able to get back the money that was outstanding. 
Paymentsense did not agree. It said that it had told B on multiple occasions what it needed 
to set up the account with the third party card issuer. Paymentsense said that the third 
partys terms and conditions were that B should have notified it of any error within ninety 
days of an account  statement.  It also said that B had been  allowed 180 days here, and that it 
was Bs responsibility to provide the required documentation.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 12 July 2019 because  I wanted to explain my assessment 
of some additional evidence and information that Paymentsense has provided to me. And 
also because I took a different view about  the terms of the settlement to our adjudicator.
background
I asked Paymentsense  a number of further questions about  Bs application and for the 
documentation it received from B.
It showed me that a director of B signed the agreement electronically on 2 October 2017. 
There were apparently no issues with the part relating to the processing  of card types other 
than with the third party  card issuer referred to here.  But in November and December 2017 
Paymentsense asked  B to provide  evidence  of the address of the director of B who signed 
the agreement  so that the merchant account with that third party  could be fully set up. 
Ref: DRN11661652Paymentsense has shown that B first provided an extract of information held at Companies 
House about the director. But the correspondence address shown did not match that on the 
application form. On 13 December 2017, a copy of the utility bill for the director  had been 
received by Paymentsense from B. On 14 December 2017 a member of Paymentsenses 
staff (anonymised here as Mr B) who dealt with the third party card issuer  told another  
member of staff (anonymised here as Ms H), who was in contact with B, that the address 
needed to match that on the application.  I could see that it didnt.  I could also see that Ms H 
wrote to B on 1 February 2018  to say that the proof of address would need to match  that in 
the system. A director responded on 8 February 2018 to say that the other  director was 
going to be removed and that she would become sole director. 
The next correspondence Id seen with B is an email from Mr B to B on 11 May 2018. This 
told B that the third party card issuer  was holding funds of £5,511.70 due to B. And this was 
because it had a different  requirement for documentation. It needed a proof  of the home 
address of the director who signed  the application. Mr B told B that if it provided the 
information then the funds  would  be released  in two weeks. That day a director  of B 
responded to say that she was still going  to be taking over ownership of the business. Mr B 
said the address  details  for the other  director would still be required. I was satisfied that the 
same utility bill was provided again on 14 May 2018 by B. On 18 June 2018, Mr B wrote to B 
to say that everything was then set up and approved.
B asked  Mr B why only part of the funds had later been received. He wrote  to the third party 
card issuer  and asked if that was because of the 180 day rule.  The card issuer confirmed 
that it was, and Mr B told B about  this on 24 August 2018.
I also asked Paymentsense to explain why the utility bill with a different address to the 
application was accepted  in June 2018.  It told me that this was due to the leniency  policy  of 
the third party  card issuer.  When I asked  it to explain more about  this, it said it was brought 
to its attention by Mr B in May 2018 that the third party  might  accept written confirmation on 
a case-by-case  basis. But it said that if there was any evidence of this it cannot be accessed  
as Mr B no longer works for Paymentsense. It maintained  that B had not worked with it to get 
the documentation and so it is not fair to hold Paymentsense responsible for the loss.
my assessment
I was satisfied that Paymentsense took responsibility for the administration in setting up this 
third party merchant processing account  for B. There is no evidence Ive seen of any 
correspondence from the third party card issuer to B about its address verification  
requirements. 
B explained to Paymentsense the position with the directors  address. The address on the 
application was not his home address and seemed to be that of another  director. B could not 
provide verification that simply did not exist. Paymentsense knew that in December 2017. To 
me that left two options. Either Paymentsense could approach the third party  for leniency.  
But Mr B made no mention of that possibility to Ms H in December 2017 even though hed 
seen the utility bill. Alternatively, the application needed to be redone with the verifiable 
information. But, instead, in my view Paymentsense knowingly allowed the account to 
operate without  the ability for any settlements to be made. It did nothing  about this until the 
email of 11 May 2018. By then payments  that had been taken by B more than six months 
earlier (based on the 180 day rule),  using the relevant  card type,  were  apparently  being  
returned to its customers  by the third party card issuer.
Ref: DRN11661653I was satisfied that had Paymentsense taken action as indicated above then Bs loss could 
have been avoided. I thought that some  way of ensuring that the amounts processed up to 
that point be paid to B by the third party would most likely have been found. And my 
understanding was that it is exactly those payments made from October  to December 2017 
that have not been settled, as these  were at least six months old when the issue was 
resolved in June  2018. As I saw it, theyd already been processed  before B was fully alerted 
to the issue. And, as Id said B had no other  address verification to confirm  settlement.
I considered that B should fairly be compensated by Paymentsense for the payments  it did 
not receive as a result. This is subject to B providing  evidence of those transactions and 
what has and has not already been  settled by the third party.  
However, I did not think that Paymentsense should pay simple interest on the payments or 
any other compensation. I said that because B reasonably knew that it was not receiving any 
settlements from the third party. And it did not seem to have made any attempt to get 
payments before it responded to an email from Paymentsense in May 2018. So, while it 
clearly expected to receive the money  it did not seem unduly concerned about any delay in 
getting it. 
I said I was looking at what is fair and reasonable. In these circumstances, and given that 
the address of the director on the original form was from the start incorrect, I didnt think it 
would be fair and reasonable to expect  Paymentsense also to add simple  interest  of eight 
percent to the settlement  from the date of each transaction. 
My provisional decision was that I intended to require Paymentsense to pay B an amount 
equal to those card transactions  with the third party  from the date the account was opened to 
18 June 2018;  and which B could show have not been settled  by that third party  solely 
because of the issue with the directors address  verification, and not due to any other reason 
such as say chargeback  or card fraud.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did not receive any response  from B about my provisional decision.
Paymentsense provided further evidence as it had found an email  chain  involving Mr B and 
Ms H about  the setting  up of the account.  Mr B asked the card issuer  on 27 November 2017 
which the correct  Merchant Identification  number  was. B had said that it thought  funds were  
being held up because it was using the wrong account. The third party  card issuer confirmed 
that both numbers that had been  quoted related to B.
Paymentsense asked  me to consider  this but has not said why it thinks  this affects the 
outcome of the complaint.  It seems that at one time B might have thought that it was using 
an incorrect merchant number and so as a result  not receiving settled funds.  But in 
November 2017  and December 2017 as Ive set out above Paymentsense knew  that the 
issue was with the verification of the address  of a director.
I am not persuaded that this affects  my conclusions about what  happened.  And so I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. I will though mention that it will be up to B to 
Ref: DRN11661654provide Paymentsense  with the information  as set out below to show which of the payments 
have not been settled.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Paymentsense Limited to pay B an 
amount equal  to those card transactions with the third party  from the date the account was 
opened to 18 June 2018; and which B can show have not been settled by that third party  
solely because of the issue with the directors address verification, and not due to any other  
reason such as say chargeback or card fraud.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to B to accept or reject  
my decision  before 10 October 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1166165