K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C, who are represented by a third party, have complained to us about mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies they bought from Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) 
in 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003  and 2004. They say the policies were  mis-sold.
background
Mr and Mrs C bought  each PPI policy to go with their mortgage borrowing plus the further  
advances they took on it.
 
Only Mr C was covered by the policies, which included cover  for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs C say they werent told they had a choice about  whether to buy PPI with their 
mortgage lending.  They also say that on each occasion  the PPI wasnt  explained to them.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policies had been mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs C disagree, 
their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs C are in agreement  with Lloyds that each of these PPI sales took place at a 
meeting in a branch and that Lloyds made a recommendation that they should buy the PPI 
on each occasion.  That means for each sale Lloyds was responsible  for ensuring that the 
PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs situation  and that the information it provided about  them  
was clear and not misleading.
 
I dont have all the relevant  sale paperwork.  Thats not surprising given that the most recent 
of these took place almost  15 years ago and the oldest almost  20 years  ago. So in reaching  
my decision  Ive relied on the paperwork and customer information that is available, what 
Mr and Mrs C have told us plus what already know about how Lloyds PPI sales happened at 
the time.
I think for each sale its likely that Mr and Mrs C would have been asked to confirm  they 
wanted to buy PPI when filling out the mortgage  borrowing application forms. 
But Ive also had a look at the PPI proposal forms that that Mr and Mrs C signed  when they 
applied for the PPI alongside their borrowing. I can see that in addition to completing their 
personal details,  Mr and Mrs C specified  who was to be covered and went  on to give details 
of employment  and related information that would show Mr C was eligible for the cover and 
not disadvantaged by any of the main  policy  exclusions. So it seems to me that for each of 
the PPI sales Mr and Mrs C most  likely gave some thought to buying  the cover  and how they 
would want to benefit from it if it was necessary for Mr C to make a claim.  
Ref: DRN10965942When making these applications Mr and Mrs C also gave Lloyds their bank account details 
so that the PPI premiums  which were separate  to their mortgage payments  could be 
taken. Thats  something else that makes  me think that on each occasion they realised they 
were making a decision to buy PPI cover.
Given the length of time since each of these  sales took place, I have to consider the 
possibility that Mr and Mrs C may not remember exactly what went  on during each sale  nor 
would I expect them to. So Ive looked to see what  evidence  might be available  to suggest  
that something might have gone  wrong with each sale. 
Based on what Ive seen  I think its likely that on each occasion Mr and Mrs C decided to buy 
these policies to help protect  their mortgage  repayments. I think  they did so because they 
thought the cover would  be useful to them. 
Ive next looked at whether Mr and Mrs C were disadvantaged by any of the conditions or 
limitations of the policies.  The information  Ive seen makes me think  that they were  both 
eligible for the cover, in good health  and in permanent employment. So I think  they wouldve 
been able to make a successful claim on these policies if theyd needed to.
Each policy paid out for up to 12 months if Mr W was to make a successful claim. 
Mr and Mrs C have told us that they werent entitled  to any benefits from their employers if 
Mr C was unable to work due to accident  or sickness, or if he lost his job. So I think he and 
Mrs C had a use for the policies as something that would help to protect  their home  if he 
wasnt able to work. Ive also kept in mind that the policies wouldve paid out alongside any 
other financial resources  that they could access.  
Overall, therefore, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs C chose to buy each of these policies for 
the protection and reassurance that it gave them.
 
From the paperwork Ive seen it looks as if Mr and Mrs C ought to have been  provided with 
details of the cost of each policy at around  the time of each sale. Ive no way of knowing that 
they received  these  details, and that they read them if they did. But I havent seen anything  
to make me think that Mr and Mrs C might have had problems paying  for the cover. 
I can also see its possible there  may have been  some shortcomings in the way information 
was given to Mr and Mrs C  such as in relation to the cost of each policy. But, having  
looked at the sales  carefully,  I think Mr and Mrs C would still have decided to buy them if 
theyd been better advised and informed.
Overall, whilst Ive looked  at these sales carefully,  Im not able to make  a finding that these 
PPI policies were mis-sold.  I know  this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C but I would like 
to assure them  that Ive given careful  consideration to their complaint before reaching my 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about these PPI 
sales being mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Ref: DRN10965943Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1096594