K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
Using some  of the information Morses has given to us here is a brief summary of the loans 
approved for Mr W. These were home-credit loans.
Loan No Date  Taken Date closedAmount 
takenLargest  
Repay  
AmountNo of Instalments
1 08.01.16 08.07.16 £300 £15 33 weeks
2 08.07.16 02.03.17 £300 £15 33 weeks
3 08.07.16 02.03.17 £200 £25 33 weeks
4 02.03.17 26.10.17 £600 £30 33 weeks
5 06.07.17 16.11.17 £200 £40 
(combined  
with 4)33 weeks
6 16.11.17 28.06.18 £800 £40 33 weeks
7 28.06.18 paid £800 £40 33 weeks
One of our adjudicators thought that Morses should put things right for Mr W in relation to 
Loans 5 to 7. Morses  supplied additional information and did not agree. Our adjudicators  
second view endorsed the first. 
Mr W did not disagree with the adjudicators recommendations and so the outcome  for 
Loans 1 to 4 does not appear to be in dispute.  I have  not reviewed those loans. 
The complaint remains unresolved and has been  passed to me for a decision. I have 
reviewed Loans  5 to 7 within the context of the overall lending.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  high-cost (including  home credit)  lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good  industry practice - on our website. 
I have carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
Morses needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Morses  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
Ref: DRN10220702include: where a customers income  is particularly low; where the repayments  are 
particularly high; and/or  where the frequency of the loans and the length  of time over which  a 
customer has been given  loans need  to be looked  at: repeated  refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing  had become, or was becoming,  unsustainable.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defined 
sustainable as being the ability  to repay  without  undue difficulties. In particular 
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments, and without  having  to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows  that a 
lender should  realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower will not be 
able to make  their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have considered the submissions by Morses after our adjudicators  view but I do not find 
them persuasive. It refers  to its general  view about its customers  in general and what its 
view is as to how its loans  can furnish  a well needed credit facility  for those requiring it. But 
Mr W has said he was single with no dependants. He already had a hire purchase (HP) car 
loan (about £9,500 in May 2016  which he was still repaying in July 2018). I note that much  of 
the information it had on Mr Ws income  and expenditure does not include other credit 
commitments. And so it did not appear to be aware  of this HP agreement.  In addition, I have 
seen from Mr Ws personal credit  file that he was a regular user of other  payday  lenders and 
had been for some  time.  He regularly took loans from another  home-credit provider and was 
in default on a payday loan with one of those  lenders in November 2016. He was in arrears 
the whole  of 2017 on a mail order account. 
I have looked  at the overall pattern of Morsess lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
Loan 5 and I say this because:
When Mr W applied  for Loan  5 he already had an unpaid loan with Morses and he 
had been in debt to Morses for about  18 months. The weekly  repayments were larger 
than the previous repayments; 
from Loan 5 onwards  Mr W was provided  with a new loan often to refinance the 
previous one and sometimes  more than one at once. So Morses  ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr W was having  to borrow  further to cover  the 
earlier loan and to carry on borrowing. I think it would  have been apparent  that his 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably;
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loans  6 and 7 
were for £800 each  plus interest and they were two and a half times the principal 
sum taken in January 2016  nearly two years earlier for Loan  1. Mr W had paid 
Ref: DRN10220703large amounts of interest  to, in effect,  service  a debt to Morses  over an extended 
period;
At least one earlier loan was refinanced into a later one. 
I think that Mr W lost out because Morses continued to provide  borrowing from Loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit use over an extended period;
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in the market  for these 
high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about  Loans 5 to 7 and Morses should  put things right.
putting things right
Morses should  not have  given Mr W loans 5 to 7. Morses should: 
A) add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on Loans  5 to 7, not including anything already refunded;
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr W which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled;
C) The overall pattern  of Mr Ws borrowing for Loans 5 to 7 means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ws credit file; 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses  to deduct tax from this interest.  It needs to give
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Mr Ws complaint in part. Morses  Club PLC 
should do as I have set out above.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1022070