K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  because Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc didnt set up a standing 
order correctly. 
background
Mr T has a current account and a savings  account  with M&S. He set up a regular payment 
so that money  would go from the current account  to the savings account. M&S set the 
payment up incorrectly and so two payments  were  taken within a matter of days.  This left 
Mr T overdrawn and he had to contact M&S to sort it out. 
M&S agrees the payment was set up incorrectly. But they say this was all sorted out the 
same day that Mr T contacted them and hes not experienced any financial loss. Theyve 
offered him £25 compensation to acknowledge the inconvenience caused  and have already 
paid that into his account. Mr T wants M&S  to pay him £50 because it involved a lot of time 
and effort  on his part to sort it out.  
Our investigator thought that the compensation of £25 was fair because  M&S sorted the 
problem out as soon as Mr T contacted  them. She also said that M&S  offered  to refund the 
money back to the current account straight away but Mr T chose to make other 
arrangements. 
Mr T still wants M&S to pay him £50 compensation as he noticed the issue  and it took him 
time and effort  to sort this out. So I need to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the £25 compensation Mr T has already been  paid is fair and reasonable because: 
As soon  as Mr T contacted M&S they sorted out the problem  and changed the date 
of the standing order. They offered to refund the money back  to the current account 
but Mr T didnt want to do that. And they offered him compensation during the initial  
call. So I think the £25 M&S has already  paid Mr T fairly reflects  the inconvenience 
caused as this was all sorted out very quickly; 
I appreciate that Mr T had to spend  some time on the phone to M&S. But the calls 
werent very lengthy and I think the focus of them was to sort the problem  out quickly  
and resolve Mr Ts complaint. So I dont think this means M&S should  pay Mr T more 
compensation; 
Mr T hasnt experienced  any financial loss as a result of what happened.  M&S 
confirmed he wouldnt incur any charges on his current account during the first call 
he had with them and hes not provided  any evidence  of any financial losses he 
incurred.
Ref: DRN18774692my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision  before 7 February 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1877469