K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold him a loan because  
it gave the impression the interest rate could be changed after six months when in fact it was 
a fixed term interest rate.
background
In December 2017 Mr C took out a consolidation loan with NatWest  after meeting with an 
adviser in branch. The loan was to pay off a joint loan and reduce his monthly outgoings. He 
says the adviser  told him the interest rate could be reviewed in six months. But when he 
asked about reviewing the interest  rate in July 2018, he was told it couldnt  be changed 
because it was a fixed term loan.
Mr C complained to NatWest saying hed been mis-sold the loan and wouldnt have taken it 
out if hed known the interest rate couldnt be changed. NatWest first accepted the adviser  
had given Mr C incorrect information and offered him £50 as an apology.  But Mr C didnt 
accept this and brought  his complaint to this service.  After further investigation, NatWest 
said it hadnt given  any guarantees the interest  rate could be changed  but still offered Mr C 
£50 as a goodwill gesture.  Our adjudicator thought this was fair. But Mr C disagreed and 
asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen, I think 
NatWests treated Mr C fairly  so I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
It seems  the adviser in branch  did tell Mr C that he could look into reviewing the interest  rate 
after six months. But I dont think she gave a guarantee that the interest rate would be 
changed and the loan documentation was based  on a fixed  interest  rate over 84 months.  
The general loan conditions would still allow Mr C to pay off the loan early so he could apply 
for another  loan at a lower interest  rate if he wanted  to although hed have to pay additional 
interest if he did that. But any new application would  depend on Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time. 
While I can understand why Mr C thought he might  be able to change the interest rate, I 
dont think any guarantees were  made  and I dont  think Mr C wouldve acted differently if the 
information had been made clearer. This is because  Mr C needed to consolidate existing 
debts and its unclear  what  other loan Mr C wouldve taken out instead.  Any change of 
interest rate or new application would  depend  on the circumstances at the time so couldnt  
be predicted. So I dont think Mr Cs lost out as a result of the advisers comments.  In the 
circumstances, I think  NatWests offer of £50 as a goodwill  gesture is fair in the 
circumstances.
I can see Mr C now finds himself in financial difficulties so NatWest has a duty to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in finding  a way to manage his finances  in the future.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Ref: DRN13491462Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1349146