K821x#15Complaint
Mr F is unhappy  about the time Barclays Bank UK Plc took to reimburse him with his money  
after he was a victim to fraud. He wants compensation and for Barclays  to reimburse the 
fees he was charged  as a result of the fraudulent activity.
Background
Mr F had around £6,000  taken fraudulently from his account between  February  2016  and 
October 2016. At the time Mr F was in prison. Barclays  didnt refund this money  until May 
2017.
Mr F is unhappy  because:
He said while he was in prison,  he got his friend to hand deliver a note to Barclays to 
stop his debit card, online banking and telephone banking;
Barclays deny having any knowledge of Power of Attorney (POA) for Mr F while  he 
was in prison so didnt  act on an accusation of fraud taking place on Mr Fs account;
It took Barclays over 15 months to give Mr F his money back;
Mr F faced bank  charges and late payment  fees as a direct  result of the fraud.
Barclays initially upheld Mr Fs complaint and offered £400 compensation. Mr F brought the 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator investigated things and asked Barclays  to pay £500  compensation.  And to 
reimburse Mr F for the fees he had to pay as a direct result of the fraud  which was £229. 
Barclays agreed, however Mr F remained unhappy,  so the complaint  has been passed  to me 
for review.
In May 2020, I issued  a provisional  decision.  In it, I said;
I trust Mr F wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours  is an informal dispute  resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered  the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment on any specific  point,  its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it to reach 
the fair outcome.
The letter
Barclays say they didnt receive the letter from Mr Fs friend in January 2016. And theres no 
evidence of the letter being  sent. So, Ive had to decide  what I think  to be most  likely in the 
circumstances.
Ive seen the police custody notes  which Mr F has helpfully provided. And it clearly states on 
20 January 2016,  Mr F gave somebody  a handwritten  letter to deliver. Unfortunately, the 
details on who the letter was passed to, and who it was for is redacted from the custody 
notes. But Ive taken  this into account as it coincides with Mr Fs version of events, and the 
dates. 
Mr F also says one of his cards was stopped  by Barclays on the day the letter  was 
supposedly taken  to branch. So, I find it likely  Barclays did receive something to stop one of 
Ref: DRN11707552Mr Fs debit  cards. Unfortunately,  the online and telephone banking  wasnt  stopped despite 
Mr F saying  he requested this. 
Mr F has also supplied our service with a picture of his friend  who hand delivered the letter. 
And asked  us to review  the CCTV from the Barclays branch. Its unfortunate that the CCTV 
evidence isnt available.  But based on all the information I have, I think its more likely  than 
not, Barclays did receive this letter.
POA
Im aware an unidentified  third party called Barclays in July 2016  about the fraud  on Mr Fs 
account. Barclays didnt  act on this as they say they didnt have POA for Mr F. 
Mr F has supplied a letter from Barclays to Mr Fs solicitors confirming they received a third-
party authority in May 2016. So, while I appreciate the person who called in July 2016 wasnt 
authorised, I think Barclays could have done  more to investigate  things. I say that because it 
seems they had third-party  authority, based on the letter Ive seen, so they could have 
contacted that third party if they couldnt get hold of Mr F directly. And this could have 
resulted in the fraud investigation  taking place sooner than it did.
The delays
Mr F says it took over 15 months to get his money back   and thats because the first 
transaction happened in February 2016 and Mr F didnt receive the money  until May 2017. 
Barclays have already admitted to a delay  in their end of almost 2 months from when  the 
fraud investigation started in February  2017,  to somebody acting on it in April 2017. And Im 
aware the Police contacted Barclays on 26 April 2017 confirming theyd had a confession 
about the fraud which took place on Mr Fs account. 
However, Ive explained  above why I think its likely Barclays  had knowledge  of third-party  
authority for Mr Fs account, so I think the delay is significantly more  than the two months 
Barclays have accepted.
Bank charges and late payment fees
Mr F has tried to claim for some ground  rent arrears  associated  with his property which 
Barclays have refused. Ive looked at the detail of these arrears  and it seems the arrears 
were before the fraud  took place. So, I agree these shouldnt be included in any settlement.
Barclays have already agreed  to pay back the additional fees,  which were a direct result of 
the fraud.  The total is £229. However,  I do think 8% simple interest should be paid on top of 
this from the time the fees were  taken, to the time Barclays  refunded  Mr F. And thats 
because Mr F was without this money for a significant period.
Reimbursement of fraudulent funds
I note Barclays have  refunded Mr F the total amount which  was taken through  fraudulent 
transactions. However, I cant  see that Barclays has considered Mr F was without this 
money for a long period  of time.  Therefore, I think Barclays should add interest to this 
amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date the funds were fraudulently taken  to 
the date they refunded him. 
Ref: DRN11707553Compensation
Based on the above information, I think Barclays need to do a bit more to put things right. 
And I think a compensation amount of £1,000 is more appropriate due to the stress and 
inconvenience this whole  situation has caused  Mr F. I think Barclays  could have been more 
proactive when dealing with his fraud  claim, both when the hand-written letter was more 
likely received, and in July 2016 when the third-party  called about  the fraud.
So, in summary,  I thought  Barclays had to do more to put things right for Mr F. And I thought 
they should:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the £6,200 they refunded Mr F. They 
should calculate this from the date the money was taken to the date they refunded.
Reimburse Mr F £229 for the bank charges and late fees he faced as a direct result 
of the fraud. And they should add 8% simple interest per year on this amount from 
the date the charges were placed, to the date they settle.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK Plc to withhold income  tax from 
the above-mentioned interest. Barclays should give Mr F a certificate showing how 
much is taken off if Mr F asks for one.
Pay Mr F £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr F responded to my provisional decision. He agreed with the findings and said he accepts 
Barclays have returned the funds owed  to him, but he feels like one further  payment was 
missing for around £160.
Barclays didnt respond in full to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr F has said with regards to the additional payment he 
feels is due from Barclays. But I cant fairly agree this extra  amount should be refunded, Ive 
explained further below.
Mr F has provided  screen shots of his bank  statement from December 2016. This shows  a 
payment of around  £160 being paid to a third-party  company and Mr F disputes this was 
him. So, he thinks Barclays  should  reimburse  for this amount too. 
I havent seen  enough evidence from this transaction alone to be confident it was part of the 
other fraud transactions  Barclays  have already  refunded. And it appears this transaction  took 
place in a different month to the other transactions. Therefore, based on the evidence  I have,  
I cant fairly ask Barclays to reimburse  Mr F for this additional transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc should do the 
following:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the £6,200 they refunded Mr F. They 
should calculate this from the date the money was taken to the date they refunded.
Ref: DRN11707554Reimburse Mr F £229 for the bank charges and late fees he faced as a direct result 
of the fraud. And they should add 8% simple interest per year on this amount from 
the date the charges were placed, to the date they settle.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK Plc to withhold income  tax from 
the above-mentioned interest. Barclays should give Mr F a certificate showing how 
much is taken off if Mr F asks for one.
Pay Mr F £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Hayley West
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1170755