K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that Gain  Credit  LLC, trading as Lending Stream,  lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Miss L took out five instalment loans with Lending Stream between December 2015 and 
April 2016. The loans  were repayable  in six, monthly repayments. Miss L repaid loans one, 
two, four and five but didnt repay loan three. A summary  of Miss Ls borrowing from 
Lending Stream is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
118 December 2015 100 7 March 2016
221 February 2016 200 12 June 2017
37 March 2016 520
419 March 2016 70 27 October 2016
514 April 2016 200 12 June 2017
Miss L says that the loans were inappropriate for her and made  her position worse. She 
wants a refund of charges and interest, with interest.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Miss Ls complaint. She said that Lending  Stream  
shouldnt have given  Miss L loan five. The adjudicator set out what she thought it should do 
to put things right.  
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicator  and offered to settle  the matter in line with her 
recommendation. Miss L didnt agree and asked that her complaint be considered  by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure 
Miss L could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN10573802the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Miss L could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments  were  affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course,  the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think that Lending  Stream was wrong to give Miss L loans 
one to four. Given the repayment  amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ls circumstances 
at the time and her history  with the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been  
proportionate for Lending  Stream  to ask Miss L for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Miss L 
provided or the information Lending Stream  shouldve been aware of, which  meant it 
wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying what  Miss L said.  
Lending Stream has accepted the adjudicators  view in relation to loan five, so I dont need  
to comment on that further. Miss L hasnt repaid loan three and its right thats taken  into 
account in looking  at redress. 
Ref: DRN10573803putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss L paid in relation  to loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any sum still due in relation to loan three and pay 
Miss L the balance,  if any. If there remains an outstanding balance  owed to 
Lending  Stream  in relation to loan three,  it should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Miss L;
remove adverse information about loan five from Miss Ls credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream  to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Miss L a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken  off, if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Ls complaint in part. Gain Credit  LLC,  
trading as Lending Stream, should pay Miss L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1057380