K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Saga Services Limited  unfairly increased his motor insurance 
premiums.
background
Mr W took out a policy with Saga in 2015  for a premium  of roughly £282. That premium 
increased year-on-year and by 2018 Saga asked him to pay £577 to renew his policy. Mr W 
hadn't made  any claims in that period  and didn't  think  that rise of around 104% since 2015  
was fair.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think  Saga had done anything  
wrong. Mr W didn't agree so his complaint's been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I've looked  at Mr Ws complaint very carefully  and I can understand why he felt the need to 
complain. Each year his premium went up by significant  sums  until - in 2018  - Saga  was 
asking for more than double  what  Mr W had paid only three years  earlier.  So I can 
appreciate why he might have found such sharp price  rises difficult to bear.  But that doesn't  
necessarily mean that Saga has treated him unfairly.
I think its important to be clear that were  not the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. So its not my role to say how much  an insurer should charge, what  
factors it should assess, or how to go about  those assessments.  And we generally  take the 
view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to charge  what  they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk and to satisfy  their wider commercial  requirements.
So, when Sagas quoted  Mr W a renewal  premium, that covered not only the cost of the risk 
he presented but also included  a profit element  too. Companies like Saga are in business to 
provide a service  but also to make  money.  And theres nothing wrong with that. If theyre not 
profitable theyre unlikely  to exist for too long. It follows that when offering  premiums to their 
customers businesses like Saga need  to balance  the need to cover the risk with their desire 
to retain  a customers business while  still earning a profit. And thats  generally  a matter of 
commercial judgement. And as long as their treating their customers fairly, that is theyre not 
singling individuals out, thats not something that we think  its fair to interfere with.
Mr Ws pointed  out that his car was only worth around £400. So he said the costs to Saga  of 
any claim he might have  made was likely to be low. But the cost of Mr Ws car would only be 
one very small part of a consideration  of risk. Motor claims very often involve the coming  
together of two or more  cars. So the costs to settle  such claims involve the repair  or 
replacement of more  than one car. And many  modern cars can costs not just thousands but 
tens of thousands of pounds. Also personal  injury claims, which  are common  following 
motoring accidents,  can add to an insurer's costs to settle claims. And these are just some of 
the numerous factors insurers will think about  when setting premiums.  So the fact that 
Mr Ws car is of relatively low value doesn't mean that the risk he presents to an insurer  is 
equally low. 
Ref: DRN19525712Saga has provided  us with some information about  its consideration of Mr Ws premiums. 
That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with him. But having considered 
it very carefully I don't  think that Saga  has in anyway singled him out. And, from my 
experience of the insurance market, the premiums its charged  him don't seem excessive for 
someone in his circumstances. And, as Mr W knows, he was under no obligation to renew 
his policy  with Saga. It follows that, despite Mr Ws unhappiness with the sharp  rises in his 
premiums, I don't think Sagas dealt with him unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1952571