complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Cigna Insurance Services  (Europe) Limited (Cigna) didnt  inform
them when the benefits reduced  on their personal  accident insurance policy, but it continued
to increase the premiums.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Both parties have accepted  
my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add Ive reached the same conclusions  as set out 
in my provisional decision and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and require 
Cigna Insurance  Services  (Europe) Limited  to put things right as laid out in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
  Copy  of Provisional Decision  
Ive considered the relevant  information about Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint. Based on what  Ive seen 
so far Im intending to uphold this complaint.
Ill look at any more  comments  and evidence  that I get by 8 February 2019. But unless  the 
information changes my mind, my final decision  is likely  to be along the following lines. Final 
decisions will be published on our website. So that Mr F and Mrs F cant be identified, Ill call them 
Mr and Mrs F.
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Cigna  Insurance Services (Europe) Limited (Cigna) didnt inform  them  
when the benefits  reduced on their personal  accident  insurance policy, but it continued to increase  the 
premiums.
Ref: DRN1668229background
Mr and Mrs F had a personal accident  insurance  policy with Cigna. The policy was taken out in 
September 1991, and renewed annually  until Mr and Mrs F cancelled it in August  2017.
When Mr and Mrs F first took the policy  they chose a level of cover  that included benefit  protection 
which they thought  would maintain the level of cover over the passage  of time.
The policy contained an age clause whereby  when an insured person reaches the age of 65 the 
benefits reduce, the policy says:
Where an insured person is aged 65 years or over at the time of sustaining bodily  injury then 
a)  Permanent  total disablement from all gainful employment benefit shall not be payable  and
b)  All other benefits are halved.
In April 2011  Mrs F turned 65 as did Mr F in November  2011 and so the age clause was applied 
to the policy by Cigna.
Mr and Mrs F say they were unaware  of the clause  and only realised when  they made an enquiry 
about something different to do with the policy  in August  2017.
Mr and Mrs F feel that Cigna didnt  treat them fairly as it didnt advise them that this change would 
take affect when it issued the renewal  invite, prior to Mrs Fs 65th birthday, for the policy year 
September 2010 - September 2011, or in any subsequent renewal invites. So they complained to 
Cigna.
K800x#10
Ref: DRN1668229Cigna said that the policy  wording hasnt changed throughout the life of the policy and the renewal  
invitations ask if the policy still meets the needs of the insured. It said it was Mr and Mrs Fs 
responsibility to check the policy cover before renewing.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and so brought the complaint  to us. The investigator initially  didnt uphold  
the complaint. And then following further comments from Mr and Mrs F asked  Cigna to refund Mr and 
Mrs F a refund of between 5% and 10% of the premiums paid during the period where  cover was 
reduced. She felt it wouldve been more customer focussed to bring the change  to Mr and Mrs Fs 
attention.
Cigna accepted, in its final response  to Mr and Mrs F, that its renewal invites wouldve been more 
customer focussed if they had highlighted  the benefit change but disagreed to the refund and so the 
matter has been  referred  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about  what  happened, Ive based my 
decision on what I thinks most  likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially  relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to all 
of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I appreciate what Cigna has said it was Mr and Mrs Fs responsibility to check and see if the policy 
still suited their needs at each renewal. And I agree to a certain extent, but given the renewal  
invitations say the new monthly premium includes  your normal annual benefit protection increase, I 
can see why Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have any idea that the benefit  levels had reduced. I think this was 
misleading and understand why Mr and Mrs F didnt feel they needed  to look further into the level of 
cover they thought was being provided.
I consider that the reduction in cover from age 65 is a significant one. So believe that Cigna should  
have made Mr and Mrs F aware that this change was about  to happen  so they could make  an 
informed choice about whether to continue with the policy.
I recognise that the reduction of cover  on these types of policies is not unusual  in the market,  but the 
misleading information  in the renewal meant that Mr and Mrs F were  enticed into renewing a policy  
with cover they may have been  able to find cheaper elsewhere.
When Mr and Mrs F did find out about  the reduction in cover, in 2017, they cancelled the policy 
immediately and bought a cheaper policy with another provider. So Im satisfied that had Cigna 
highlighted the change to them in 2010 they wouldve  shopped around and found cover elsewhere at 
that time.
Because of this I believe  that Cigna  treated  Mr and Mrs F unfairly,  by not highlighting the change 
in benefit to them.
Ref: DRN1668229K822xIn order to put things  right I would normally ask Cigna  to put Mr and Mrs F back  in the position they 
wouldve been  in if this hadnt happened. But in this case this is a little difficult, because while I 
accept that Mr and Mrs F wouldve bought cover  elsewhere; I have no way of knowing what  the cost 
of that cover  wouldve been. Ive considered this and I think the fairest  way to put things right is for 
Cigna to refund 50% of the annual premiums paid by Mr and Mrs Fs from the renewal  directly  prior 
to Mrs Fs 65th birthday up until the policy cancellation, plus interest.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this 
complaint against Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited.
Putting things right
Cigna should put Mr and Mrs F as close as possible to the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt 
renewed the policy on the year of Mrs Fs 65th birthday.  To do this Cigna should:
   Refund 50% of the annual premiums  paid by Mr and Mrs Fs from the renewal  directly  prior to 
Mrs Fs 65th birthday  up until the policy  cancellation.
   Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Cigna to take off tax from this interest.  Cigna must give
Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1668229