K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained Barclays  Bank UK PLC refuse to refund him for two sets of disputed 
transactions from his account in 2016.  The first set are for cash  withdrawals at casino booths 
and the second set are online gambling transactions.
background 
During a trip to the US in 2016, Mr C realised  thered been lots of transactions  on his 
account which he didnt  think  hed made.  Some of these had happened whilst hed been  in 
hospital there. He told Barclays  these had been  done at kiosks in casinos and he felt hed 
been scammed.  
These kiosks allowed  people to withdraw  cash by production of a card which is then 
checked. They carry out a review of the cardholders  government issued identification and 
obtaining the cardholders signature. He was often told there was a systems issue and to 
come back  when money was available.  When  he did so he had to carry out another  
transaction. He felt although he often received cash, duplicate  transactions  were also taking 
place. He was claiming back £64,732.92 covering 28 different transactions.  These  had taken 
place at eight  different  casinos between 21 September and 16 November 2016 (although he 
first raised his complaint in October 2016). Mr C believed there was plenty of evidence  to 
show this company, and their employees,  was involved in a recognised  scam.
Barclays obtained information from the company who operated these kiosks  (who Ill call E). 
They believed all the transactions  had been  properly authorised so didnt refund any of the 
money to Mr C.
When Mr C returned to the UK he raised a further complaint with Barclays for 70 online 
gambling transactions totalling £18,862.61 undertaken  with a different debit card. Barclays 
raised chargebacks  with the companies  involved. As no responses were received from some  
companies, they refunded £1,892.61 to Mr C on 9 March 2017. For all the remaining 
transactions which had all been  made to B (a specific gambling company), Barclays  believed 
these were authorised.
Mr C had first raised his complaint with Barclays in October  2016.  He only received a final 
response in March 2017. Barclays apologised  for the delay in dealing with the issues  Mr C 
had raised and offered him £150 in apology.
Mr C felt this was derisory and didnt take into account all that had happened.  Hed lost more 
than £80,000  and had had difficulty in managing  financially during the period of the dispute. 
He brought his complaint  to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. This included information  from both E and B about 
how the transactions were authorised. Shed also raised some questions  with Mr C which  he 
was unable to answer.  For example she couldnt  understand why Mr C continued  to use Es 
facilities after October 2016 when he already thought he was being scammed. In the end 
she told Mr C she believed hed authorised the transactions so couldnt ask Barclays  to 
refund him.
Mr C disagreed with this outcome. He asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Ref: DRN16131012I completed a provisional decision on 10 January 2020. I also believed Mr C had authorised  
the disputed transactions. I did ask Barclays to increase  their compensation to £350 in total.
Barclays disputed this finding as they didnt believe the results  of their investigation would 
have had an impact on the outcome of the complaint.  
I received nothing from Mr C.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not seen anything  
which has made me reach a different conclusion than I did when writing the provisional 
decision. The following is similar  to my provisional decision for that reason.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing thats  had an impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  of the transactions 
themselves, as well as what all the involved parties, including E and B, as well as Barclays  
and Mr C have told us.
Ive looked at both sets of disputed transactions and Ill deal with these in turn.
disputed transactions  undertaken at E kiosks  overseas
Mr C has disputed 28 transactions totalling £64,732.92 carried  out at Es kiosks in eight 
casinos. These were carried out between 21 September  and 16 November 2016. Mr C was 
in the US at the time and theres no dispute he visited those casinos. During  the period of 
Mr Cs stay he undertook more than 65 transactions at Es kiosks. He withdrew  a significant 
amount of money:  presumably to use in the casinos.
Ive considered Mr Cs evidence which includes confirming  his partner was with him for part 
of this time,  then returning home  whilst disputed transactions continued after then. Hes also 
confirmed he was never without his card, including  the time he was in hospital.
Hes given us evidence  from a representative of the hospital confirming Mr C was a patient 
there from 5 to 12 October  2016. Ive also seen  evidence of two card transactions  of $3,000 
apiece made on 10 and 11 October to the hospital.  This backs  up Mr Cs evidence  he 
retained possession  of his Barclays debit card. I can also see there were other retail 
transactions made using this card, which Mr C has not disputed. These took place over the 
period Mr C was in hospital.  Some of these were at the casino  but not at the kiosk  where 
the disputed transactions also took place.
We got copies  of receipts from E showing Mr Cs signature for all the disputed transactions  
but one. As E no longer held this evidence,  they refunded £2,813  to Mr Cs account in 
Ref: DRN16131013August 2017.  This related to a transaction carried out at 22:23  on 9 October  2016. This was 
carried out at the same  place where  other retail transactions were also processed which  
Mr C had not disputed.
I can also see E state government  issued identification was required for checking as 
money was handed  over.  This matches  what Mr C has told us that he used his passport as 
ID. Mr C has said he was also required to provide his fingerprint as additional  ID. E 
confirmed this could  be the case. It was up the casino  what procedures  they followed.  This 
was not a requirement placed on them by E for all transactions. The fingerprint ID was then 
only present on the receipts given to the customer.
I cant say for sure exactly  what was happening. Or how these transactions were taking 
place when Mr C was in hospital? Hes taken a robust view that he couldnt have been  
wandering around  using  his card with the condition he had. However Im not so sure this is 
the case based on the other evidence Ive seen.
Mr C has told us E and their employees  were operating a scam. This would have involved 
more than 30 different  employees across a range of different establishments.  I think  overall 
this is unlikely.
Mr C first raised  the dispute with Barclays in October 2016. Its clear  that after this he 
continued to frequent the same casinos and use Es kiosks  there.  Mr C has never explained 
why  if he felt he was being scammed for such a substantial amount of money  hed 
continue to do this.
He has said that he thinks he was debited for transactions which were initially declined.  Its 
true some of the transactions at Es kiosks were  declined. But I dont think he was debited 
for these. What seems  to have happened  is after a decline, Mr C used his mobile phone to 
transfer money from his account ending in 2347 to his current  account  ending 4821. Over 
the time Mr C was in the US, he made  more than 15 transactions on 15 different days,  
transferring generally  £5,000 at a time or more as he required for his time overseas. He has 
never disputed doing  these.  
He did tell us that he wasnt able to use his mobile  phone whilst he was in the US. He didnt 
have the correct charger. If that were actually the case Id have expected Mr C to have 
disputed the transfers between accounts.  Hes not done that.
Based on the evidence  I agree with the conclusion our adjudicator  came  to. Mr C authorised  
these 27 disputed transactions  (one being refunded  by E) as shown  by the signature on the 
receipts for the transactions he disputed.  
At the time our adjudicator was discussing these transactions with Mr C, he said he was 
intending to widen his dispute  to include other  transactions.  We confirmed he needed  to 
raise these with Barclays first. This discussion was in August 2017. To date Mr C has not 
disputed any further transactions with Barclays.
disputed online gambling transactions
Mr C disputed 70 online gambling transactions carried out between 30 November and 
19 December 2016. He accepted he used his card to gamble online but said this didnt 
match his normal pattern.  
Ref: DRN16131014To resolve  this Barclays raised disputes with the companies involved. They didnt get any 
response from a number of companies where a small amount of gambling had taken place.  
On that basis they refunded £1,892.61 to Mr C. This credited his account on 9 March 2017.
One company,  B, confirmed Mr C held an account with them.  Although £18,800  had been  
spent with them, they pointed out Mr C had carried out a number of withdrawals from his B 
account. These amounted to £10,150.  Those  credits  hadnt been mentioned by Mr C in his 
original evidence.
B also explained they have additional security around their customers  accounts.  For anyone 
to have used Mr Cs account, theyd have needed  to know his username and password 
along with his card details. None of this is impossible of course, but as gambling credits are 
always made back to the same account   as happened here  theres  no gain in anyone 
else using Mr Cs account to gamble.
I can see from Mr Cs Barclays current account statements that from 21 November to 
15 December he actually  got back more than £13,000 from B. I can also see that contrary  to 
Mr Cs statements he did regularly gamble online  with B (as well as another  company  with a 
similar name). I accept  his gambling in March to May 2016, for example, was for much lower  
amounts. Im also aware  that Mr C had access to money allowing him to gamble larger  
amounts if he wished to.
Overall I believe all the evidence shows Mr C authorised  these transactions. I wont  be 
asking Barclays to refund him.
service aspects of the complaint
Theres no dispute Barclays took some time to respond to Mr C. They  offered him £150  
compensation for this. On the basis of the time they took I believe thats fair.  
Mr C pointed out that Barclays confirmed to him theyd undertaken a full investigation into his 
disputed transactions.  He didnt believe this was the case. He was given additional weight to 
this view when our adjudicators investigation showed up a transaction which  E admitted  
they could not show  any relevant authorisation for. E refunded  this off its own back.  Mr C 
couldnt understand why Barclays investigation hadnt shown this.
I can see from Barclays own fraud  notes that they certainly got in touch with E to talk about 
their procedures and processes.  Most  of which  they then repeated to Mr C. But they didnt 
ask E for the evidence of the actual transactions. They know  wed expect them  to carry out a 
proper investigation.  I cant see they did this. I have  added  £200 to the compensation.
I would have asked  Barclays to pay more but even if they had got this evidence  based on 
the fact we did and what  we found  I dont think it would have made  much  real difference  to 
the overall outcome. However I can see that Mr C felt Barclays  were  misleading him.
Barclays has questioned  why  if I felt this further  evidence would have made  little difference  
to the outcome of the complaint  Im asking them to pay Mr C a further £200. Theyre  right 
that I dont  think the outcome would be any different but Mr C may never have brought the 
complaint to us at all if theyd been  able to evidence what investigation  theyd done  earlier.  
This has undoubtedly had an impact  on him whilst waiting for us to come  to a conclusion.
I apologise for the delays our service has had in being able to consider his complaint.
Ref: DRN16131015my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr C £350 in compensation. I note Barclays refunded £1,892.61 to Mr C on 9 March  2017.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.  
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1613101