K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a claim he made to Ageas Insurance  Limited  following a chimney  
fire at his home. He is unhappy Ageas didnt pay out for the damage to the chimney. In 
addition, he is unhappy it didnt pay out for his sofa, which was damaged by the smoke.
background
In December 2016 the chimney at Mr Ks home  caught light and the fire brigade  had to be 
called to put it out. He made  a claim to Ageas two days  later. Ageas records  detail what 
Mr K told it at the time.  This was that the fireplace had collapsed and a couple  of floorboards 
had been damaged. There  was also smoke damage  to one wall in the sitting room and one 
of the bedrooms had also filled with smoke.
Ageas appointed representatives to assess the damage. A first inspection was completed in 
February 2017, but the inspector needed  further information before any conclusions about  
the claim could be reached. There is no documentation or photographs available  from this 
inspection. 
A further  inspection was needed. However, due to Mr Ks absence  from the country and 
difficulty arranging a time for inspection with his representative, it was not until the end of 
April 2017 the chimney  was inspected.  
In July 2017 Mr Ks policy was due for renewal. Ageas declined to renew  the policy, despite 
there being an open claim. Mr K had to arrange  a new policy to protect his property, which 
he has said he found difficult because  of the outstanding  claim.  He has said the new policy 
cost him £50 per month and had a £500 excess  both considerably  more  than his previous 
and subsequent policies. Unfortunately, Mr K hasnt  been able to provide any details of the 
replacement policy at the present time.
Ageas representatives report  doesnt  seem to have  been produced until the middle of 
August 2017.  The representative concluded  the fire in the chimney (rather  than the grate)  
was caused by blockages in the chimney. These  blockages were  a direct result  of poor 
maintenance and lack of use for long periods.  It commented  that there had been a build-up  
of debris  twigs  and tree remnants  which was visible at the time of inspection. This, in its 
opinion, had caused a back-draught  which  caused  the damage.  
However, there was a need for redecoration  and replacement of the floor covering in the 
lounge due to smoke contamination. It assessed the cost of this as £1,551.26,  from which  
the policy excess needed to be deducted.
Ageas sent Mr K a letter at the end of August 2017 explaining its decision and making an 
offer of a cash settlement  for the damage to the sitting room wall and flooring. The cost of 
repairs less excess had been increased to £2,050.55 plus VAT, but Ageas deducted 
£243.60 from the settlement because of pre-existing defects with the plaster on that wall. 
Mr K was offered £1,806.95 less 10% fees.
Mr K wasnt  happy with the offer or the delays that had occurred. He contacted this service 
and we referred his concerns to Ageas. It considered  them, but was satisfied its decision 
was correct in relation  to its liability. However, it accepted  it had been  responsible  for delays 
and offered £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN19044942Mr K didnt accept Ageas  position and asked  this service to consider his complaint. We did 
so, but our investigator  didnt recommend it be upheld.
Following the complaint  being referred  to me I asked for further evidence from both parties. 
Included among these information requests was one for the Fire Brigades report  on the 
incident, as it was the only contemporaneous evidence of the fire. Unfortunately,  it doesnt 
comment on the cause  of the fire.
policy terms
4. Precautions
You must take care:
to keep Your home in a good state  of repair; and
to avoid or limit any loss, damage, Accident or injury.
General Exceptions
b) Gradual deterioration/maintenance. Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, 
depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus 
and costs that arise  from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep  or Your 
Buildings and its Contents.
The Buildings are covered  for loss or damage caused by any of the following:
1 Fire, smoke  (not arising from things that happen gradually), explosion, lightning  or 
earthquake.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 May 2019. In that document  I set out my conclusions  
and my reasons  for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt. 
I will firstly deal with the matter of the declinature of the chimney  damage.  Ageas has 
declined this element of the claim because its assessor concluded twigs in the fireplace 
evidenced that the chimney hadnt been  maintained. 
As I have detailed above, there is a requirement to maintain  the insured property. In the case  
of a chimney that is used, this is generally  considered to be regular sweeping. How often  this 
would be needed  would  depend on the type of fuel used,  but generally  at least once a year.  
This is to prevent a significant  build-up  of combustible materials  on the walls of the chimney 
or debris  falling into the chimney from above, which can then catch light.  Mr K has said he 
had the chimney  swept each year,  but hes not able to evidence these sweepings. I note the 
policy doesnt require  such evidence to be available as many  policies do. So on the face of 
it; it would  appear Mr K did maintain the chimney.
I now turn to the evidence Ageas has relied on to say that Mr K didnt maintain the chimney 
as he should have. Its representative has pointed  to there being twigs and tree debris in the 
grate of the fireplace. This, it concluded, evidenced  the chimney hadnt been  maintained  as 
presumably it was this debris that had caught  fire. However, I have considered the 
photographs of the debris in question and I think Ageas  conclusions  are likely to be wrong. 
The debris in the fireplace is not burnt,  singed or soot marked. It seems highly unlikely this 
debris was present in the chimney during the fire, given it appears to be untouched by fire. It 
Ref: DRN19044943seems far more likely  to have been  dropped down the chimney by birds in the early  spring  
after the fire but before the inspection took place.
In light of the evidence available to me, I dont  consider Ageas could reasonably decline this 
claim due to a lack of maintenance  of the chimney. Given the distance  of the claim in time 
and the fact that Mr K has now sold the property,  it doesnt seem likely Ageas will be able to 
obtain any further evidence. As such, it should settle the claim. 
I note Ageas has reduced the amount it has paid out for the plastering of the damaged  wall 
due to it being in an imperfect state  before the fire. Given the age of the property in question, 
it is no surprise the plaster was not in a perfect state of repair. I have considered the terms of 
the policy and I have seen nothing that indicates  a wear and tear reduction  in settlement can 
reasonable be applied to a buildings settlement. I also consider it would be unreasonable to 
do so. As such, I require  Ageas to pay Mr K the amount of the reduction  it made  in the 
settlement for repair to the wall in question due its condition.
Mr K has said hes unhappy no settlement has been  made for a sofa that was smoke 
damaged in the living room. I have looked at all of the information  about the claim and it 
doesnt seem Mr K or his representative  made  Ageas aware  of this damaged item. Given  
Ageas didnt know Mr K wanted to claim for the sofa, I dont  think  it unreasonable  no 
settlement was considered or made.  However,  if the sofa in question  is still available for 
examination, Ageas  should consider this aspect of the claim if Mr K still wants it to.
Mr K is unhappy Ageas  didnt renew  his policy and he had difficulty  obtaining cover because  
of the outstanding claim. He has also said the cover was much more  expensive than the 
policy was before the claim  or the year after it was recorded as being  settled. 
As Ageas will be aware most insurers wont take on the risk of a new policy  if there are 
outstanding claims  because an accurate assessment of risk cant  be made. As such, a 
consumer will find it difficult  to obtain  cover  and that cover is likely to be more expensive. 
This is why its accepted  as good industry  practice for an insurer  to renew a policy  while it is 
considering or dealing  with a claim. I dont consider Ageas treated Mr K fairly when it refused 
renewal whilst it was still awaiting its experts report on the claim and hadnt decided the 
outcome of the claim.  
As such,  I consider Ageas should  compensate Mr K for any addition  costs he incurred due to 
its decision not to renew  his policy  before it resolved the claim. Mr K will need  to provide 
Ageas evidence of the policy he arranged and its premium.
Ageas offered Mr K £150 compensation for the delays it caused in the handling of the claim. 
I think that is a reasonable sum for those delays.  However, there is also the upset, worry and 
inconvenience caused Mr K because of the inappropriate declinature  of the damage to the 
chimney, the inappropriate reduction  of the settlement it did make  and the refusal to renew 
his policy  when it should reasonably have done so. As such, I consider Ageas should  pay 
Mr K a further £350 compensation.
responses to the provisional  decision
Ageas didnt accept  my provisional decision. It said there was no evidence  to suggest the 
chimney had been regularly  maintained, other than Mr Ks submissions. It highlighted the 
conclusions documented in the August 2017 report.  It said that given two experts had said 
the fire had been caused by a build-up  of debris  and the only contradictory evidence was 
Ref: DRN19044944from the consumer, which  wasnt substantiated, the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ageas 
then highlighted  the exclusion in the policy  for gradual deterioration/maintenance.
In response to my statement that there was no requirement under the policy for the 
policyholder to keep documentation to prove  chimneys had been swept, Ageas considered 
this to be outrageous. It said that there was a requirement under the terms of the policy for 
a consumer to maintain  their property and keep  it in a good  state  of repair. 
In relation to my decision  that the claim should  be settled because no further  assessment 
could be done,  as the property had been sold, Ageas  said it couldnt accept this. It said it 
had provided an expert  opinion  which confirmed  the damage was due to a lack of 
maintenance and Mr K hadnt provided any evidence to counter  that opinion.  However,  it 
accepted my position on the reduction made  in the offer it had made for the claim and that in 
relation to the sofa claim.
Mr K confirmed the sofa had been  disposed  of and was not available for inspection. He also 
mentioned that the property had temporarily  been taken off the market because  of the 
damage and uncertainty about the repairs. Mr K believes that because of this delay in selling 
the property, he received  less for it than he otherwise would have. In addition,  Mr K 
confirmed he hadnt cashed the £150 cheque Ageas had sent him. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  the further  
submissions of the parties,  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I would like to clarify  for Ageas that I accept there is a requirement  under the policy  for a 
consumer to maintain  their property in a good  state,  as there  is under all such  policies I have 
seen. I also accept that there were some renovations being undertaken in the property, 
which hadnt yet been completed  (the obvious  ones being areas  of plastering). What I said in 
relation to the chimney sweeping is that the policy, unlike some, doesnt require a consumer 
to be able to provide evidence of at least annual chimney sweeping (usually in the form of a 
certificate from the chimney sweep). As such, it is wrong to penalise a consumer for not 
having such evidence.  
Whilst Ageas has said it has two experts  saying the cause of the damage  was lack of 
maintenance of the chimney, I note only one report was produced and this only documented 
that it was the opinion  of one of the experts.  However, I dont consider that is material to the 
outcome of this case. The expert  said his conclusion that there were blockages in the 
chimney was supported  by the photographs  of debris which had fallen down  the chimney. I 
wasnt, and am still not, satisfied this conclusion is correct based  on the evidence the expert 
relied on. 
My reason  for questioning  the experts  conclusion is because  the debris the expert  relied on 
was clearly not in the chimney  when  the fire happened. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, the debris photographed showed no sign of having  been burnt  or of it suffering 
from contamination from fire, such as soot marks. This would indicate the debris had fallen 
down the chimney  in the spring of 2017, likely due to a bird attempting  to nest on the 
chimney. I am satisfied  that it would be reasonable to say that had the chimney been 
inspected in December  immediately following the fire, that debris would not have been in the 
fireplace. As this is the evidence  Ageas relied  on to say the chimney  hadnt  been maintained  
Ref: DRN19044945and to defeat the claim, its position  isnt supported. Given Mr K has said the chimney  was 
maintained and Ageas didnt require him to be able to prove  this in the form of certificates or 
otherwise, I dont consider there is sufficient evidence to conclude  the chimney  fire was due 
to a lack of maintenance by Mr K.
I remain satisfied that in the circumstances, Ageas should settle the claim for the damage to 
the chimney caused by the fire. Whilst I might otherwise  have suggested the claim be 
reconsidered, the passage of time and the fact the property has been sold means further 
assessment isnt an option. 
I have noted Mr K believes he would have received more for his home when it was sold but 
for Ageas decision to decline  the claim, as it would have sold earlier.  I am not persuaded 
this is the case.  At the time of the fire the property was on the market,  but doesnt appear to 
have been under offer. So whilst the delays in handling the claim and it being declined  may 
have delayed the sale of the property, I have no evidence to prove  that it did.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  Ageas Insurance  Limited to:
settle the claim for damage to the chimney,  as it cant reasonably  exclude the claim for 
lack of maintenance. Interest* should be added to the settlement from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement;
reassess the settlement it offered for the cosmetic damage caused by the smoke, as it 
cannot reasonably  reduce this because  of the pre-existing condition of the plaster on the 
relevant wall. Interest* should  be added to the sum paid from the date of loss to the date 
of settlement;
refund  any additional  costs associated with insuring the property for the policy  year 
commencing July 2017. Mr K will need  to provide evidence of the cost of the 
replacement policy. If a loss is established,  interest* should be paid from the date of 
each premium payment  to the date of settlement;  and 
pay Mr K an additional  £350 for the delays  and upset it caused  in its handling of this 
claim. Separately,  Ageas should also confirm the £150 cheque wasnt cashed and if that 
is the case, reissue the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
*Interest is paid at 8% simple per year. If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that it is 
required to deduct  income tax from any interest awarded it should provide  appropriate  
documentation to be used for HMRC  purposes  in the event Mr K wishes to attempt to claim 
the tax back.
Ref: DRN1904494