K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about AXA France IARDs  decision  to decline his claim under his 
personal accident insurance  policy  and about  the way it handled  the claim.
background
Mr H held a personal  accident  insurance  policy with AXA. The policy  would pay a lump sum 
benefit in the event  that Mr H suffered one of a number of listed health outcomes as a result 
of an accidental bodily injury.
In July 2014, Mr H says he accidentally injured his back while  gardening.
Mr H sought medical advice and treatment for his back  pain but the problem gradually 
became worse. 
In March 2017, Mr H made  a claim under his policy for permanent total disability (PTD) 
saying that he was unable to work again due to the accident he suffered in July 2014.
In November 2017, after obtaining Mr Hs medical records, AXA declined  his claim. It said 
there was no evidence he had suffered an accident and it instead appeared that his back 
problem was due to degenerative disease.
Mr H was unhappy at AXAs  decision. In January 2018, he submitted some  further  medical 
evidence, namely  his physiotherapists notes, to support that he had suffered an accident  in 
July 2014. However,  AXA still wouldnt change its position.
Mr H remained  unhappy with AXA. He provided further evidence, namely an application he 
had made  for state benefit, which  in his opinion provided further  support that he had suffered 
the described accident.
In February 2018,  AXA agreed to seek a view from an independent expert  on the merits of 
Mr Hs claim.
Mr H was unhappy at the information which AXA was proposing  to send  to the independent  
expert. He considered that this included  medical information which was irrelevant and for 
which he hadnt given  permission to be shared.
Mr H ended up making a number of Subject Access Requests (SARs) to AXA. He also 
lodged a complaint with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Eventually, in September 2018 and at AXAs request,  Mr H provided the information which 
he said he would be happy for the independent expert to receive.
In October  2018, AXA received additional  information from a hospital  at which Mr H had 
received treatment. It wrote to Mr H saying it was reviewing the information.
In March 2019, having heard nothing more  about  his claim, Mr H wrote to AXA to complain 
about the lack of progress. 
In April 2019, AXA issued  its final response to Mr Hs complaint. It said his claim had been 
re-assessed by its doctor  and it was satisfied that no benefit was payable.
Ref: DRN14182802Mr H was unhappy at AXAs  response. He referred his complaint to us. He considered  that 
AXA had handled  his claim extremely poorly and he had been treated unfairly.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
Mr H is claiming for PTD benefit under the policy. This is defined  as:
a total and permanent  disability which medical  evidence confirms will last for the rest of your 
life and which stops you doing  any paid job which  your experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualifies  you to do
The policy further  requires  that, for benefit to be paid,  Mr Hs PTD must have come  about as 
a result of an accident. This is defined as:
"a sudden and unforeseen event  which  happens  by chance after the start date and results  in 
bodily injury.
I dont consider that the medical evidence conclusively shows that Mr H has suffered an 
accident which has left him permanently unable  to work. There  is considerable doubt as to 
whether and to what extent an accident  has contributed to his back  condition. I therefore 
cant reasonably  say that AXA is required to pay his claim.
However, neither  do I consider that the medical  evidence conclusively shows  that Mr Hs 
claim has no merit. As described above,  there  is doubt over the potential role of an accident.
It was presumably for this reason that, in February 2018, AXA agreed to seek the view of an 
independent expert. I note an internal  email  said that it should  do this in fairness  to the 
consumer. I consider  this was an appropriate course of action.
This being the case, I dont know why AXA failed to get such  a view. It even had such an 
expert lined  up in May 2018 and had gone so far as to send him the evidence, though it 
turned out that due to technical problems the evidence couldnt be accessed.
I recognise that Mr H raised  a number of data protection concerns, and this made  the 
obtaining of an experts view more difficult for AXA. But I cant  see that the concerns he was 
raising were so unreasonable that it should have caused AXA to abandon any attempt to get 
an independent view. Indeed, it seemed  that in October 2018, agreement  had been reached 
on the information which was to be provided  and AXA was still intending to approach an 
independent expert. But then, some  six months later and following Mr Hs complaint, it 
simply announced that it was continuing to decline the claim based  on the advice of its 
internal doctor.
I consider that the fair course of action,  as it was in February  2018,  is for AXA to get an 
independent experts opinion on Mr Hs claim.
While this addresses what should  happen  going  forward, it doesnt address AXAs handling 
of the claim up until its final response letter in April 2019.
Mr H has criticised the way AXA handled his data and his SARs.  I am not going to consider 
these aspects in detail because I consider that they are matters  more appropriately dealt 
Ref: DRN14182803with by the ICO, to whom  Mr H has already made a complaint. I dont  dispute  that Mr H was 
within his rights to raise the various  data protection  issues but the fact is that by doing so he 
inevitably held up the progress of his claim.
However, I should comment on one data protection  issue. I note that Mr H was insisting on 
restricting the medical information  which  should be presented to the independent expert. 
This was because Mr H wanted the expert  to see only the evidence  which  Mr H considered 
to be relevant. I should point out to Mr H that he is not a doctor. I would normally expect the 
expert to be presented with full medical  evidence and to use his own judgement  to determine 
what is relevant or not. And I wouldnt consider  it fair for Mr H to withhold permission to allow 
the expert to see evidence which  in AXAs reasonable opinion  might affect the experts view 
of his case. I havent seen evidence that Mr H has yet done  this, but if he were to do so then 
I consider that AXA could  reasonably continue to decline  Mr Hs claim without seeking an 
experts opinion.
Regardless of what issues had taken place up to October 2018, I cant see what  Mr H did to 
hold up progress thereafter. It seems that AXA did very little to progress  his complaint from 
that time until it issued  its final response letter six months later. I imagine that this delay will 
have been extremely  frustrating to Mr H.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that AXA should pay £200 compensation to Mr H 
for the trouble and upset  caused to him by its poor handling of the claim.  
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
AXA accepted my provisional decision.
Mr H didnt respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that AXA has accepted my provisional decision and Mr H offered no comment, Im 
satisfied that my provisional  decision should stand. This therefore now becomes my final 
decision.
Ref: DRN14182804my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require AXA France IARD to obtain an independent experts view on the merits of Mr Hs 
claim. This is conditional on Mr H giving  permission for the independent expert  to see all 
information which in AXA France IARDs  reasonable opinion  might be relevant to the claim.
I further require  AXA France  IARD  to pay Mr H £200  compensation for its poor handling of 
the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1418280