K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled  a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy.
Background
Mr Bs car was hit by a falling branch causing  damage. He made  a claim on his motor  
insurance policy with UKI and paid the £500 excess listed on the policy.
Mr B didnt think he was to blame for the incident  - he thought  the council who looked  after 
the tree was - so he wanted UKI to recover the costs for the damage to his car. He wanted 
his excess returned  and he didnt want to have  to report that hed made  a claim on his policy.
Two months  after the claim, Mr B complained  to UKI. He wasnt  happy hed not heard 
anything about  his claim, and he wanted to know what  UKI were  doing to recover  his excess  
and the cost of his repair from the council.
UKI said it had contacted  the council, but it should have done more to chase it. It said it 
should have contacted the council itself, not suggest Mr B should have contacted  it. It 
offered Mr B £175  compensation for the inconvenience but said because the council were 
still looking  into the matter, it hadnt caused any delay  to Mr Bs claim.
The council told UKI it didnt feel responsible for the damage to Mr Bs car. It said it had a 
report from a tree surgeon that showed  the tree was in good health, and that the branch 
snapped off due to the bad weather which caused widespread disruption  in the area.
UKI wanted to see this report, but after advice from its legal  department didnt pursue the 
council further  and settled Mr Bs claim as a fault claim on his policy.  It allowed his no claim 
bonus (NCB), meaning it wasnt affected by this claim.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this, he thought UKI should have done more to investigate the 
incident. He wasnt  happy UKIs decision meant  he wasnt  able to get his excess back, and 
that hed have a fault claim on his policy. He asked if he could use the motor legal protection 
section of his policy  to claim from the council but was told he couldnt.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought  UKI had acted  reasonably so he 
didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint be upheld. He said it was reasonable UKI settled the 
claim as a fault claim based  on the evidence it had. And he thought UKI were  correct in 
saying Mr B couldnt use the motor legal protection section of his policy  to claim against  the 
council for the cost of his repair and his excess.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes not happy that an incident  
that wasnt his fault has meant hes had to pay an excess and have a claim on his policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN15288212I understand Mr B feels strongly that he shouldnt be disadvantaged by an incident that 
wasnt his fault and I can see why. But this doesnt mean I think  that UKI have acted unfairly 
or done something wrong. Theres not always a party to blame for an incident, such  as the 
case here. 
The terms of Mr Bs policy say UKI can take over the defence and settlement of any claim 
Mr B makes.  This means the final say on how a claim is settled lies with UKI not Mr B. And 
naturally, this might mean UKI makes a decision that Mr B doesnt agree with. What I have 
to consider is whether UKI investigated  the incident  sufficiently. And I need to be satisfied 
that its decision is reasonable, based on the evidence available. Im satisfied its done that.
Mr Bs car was hit from a falling branch from a tree in bad weather. UKI looked to pursue the 
council for its costs, but after finding out the council had a tree surgeons report  saying the 
tree was in good health, it decided  not to pursue the matter  further.  It stopped pursuing the 
claim with the council after advice from its legal department saying it would be unable  to 
prove the council  was negligent in its care of the tree and so unable  to hold it liable in court 
for the damage  to Mr Bs car.
Mr B is unhappy UKI didnt wait to see the report itself before settling  the claim. But I dont 
think it needed to. UKI saw a summary of the report and investigated the weather at the time 
of Mr Bs incident. It sought  legal advice on its chance of successfully  recovering  the cost 
from the council,  which  is what  wed expect it to do. Its since  received the report  from the 
council and this confirms the summary  UKI relied  on.
UKI has recorded this claim  as a fault claim. But this doesnt mean Mr B was at fault. Clearly 
he wasnt. A fault claim means  that UKI, incurred costs it wasnt able to recover in full from 
another party. I understand Mr B is unhappy  he has to declare a claim on his policy now. But 
he always would have  had to after making  one, regardless of whether UKI recovered all its 
costs or not.
Equally, Mr B is unhappy hes not had his excess back. But his excess is something hed 
always have to pay when  making a claim  on his policy. This is clearly explained in the terms 
of his policy with UKI. The only way Mr B would have been able to avoid paying  his excess 
would have been to claim directly  from the council and not though UKI.
I can see UKI has allowed  Mr Bs NCB  to be unaffected  on this claim.  This isnt something it 
needs to do, so Im satisfied its treated Mr B fairly by doing this.
Mr B is unhappy he cant use the motor  legal protection section  of his policy to claim back  
his excess and the costs of the repair from the council. But Im satisfied UKI is acting  
reasonably and in line with the policy here too.
Under the terms and conditions  of this section of the policy, it explains any costs covered 
under another section of the policy arent  covered.  Mr Bs repair  costs  are covered and have 
been paid for under  the accidental damage section.   This means only Mr Bs excess 
remains. And as UKI took legal advice to not pursue the council for the claim, I think  its 
reasonable it said any claim Mr B made against the council for his excess  wouldnt  have 
succeeded either. And its a condition of this section of the policy  that UKI consider any claim 
to have reasonable prospects of success.
Based on the above, Im satisfied UKI has settled and recorded Mr Bs claim fairly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of his policy.
Ref: DRN15288213UKI did cause inconvenience when handling  Mr Bs claim. It should have been more 
proactive in chasing the council and updating Mr B of its progress. But Im satisfied it didnt 
cause any substantial delay to Mr Bs claim being settled, so Im satisfied £175 
compensation is fair in the circumstances  and dont require it to increase it.
My final decision
Based on the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1528821