K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that they were mis-sold a sofa warranty  by A. Share & Sons Limited, 
in that they were led to believe they were  covered  for accidental  damage, including  a burn. 
In fact they werent covered  for such damage.
background
In October  2016, Mr and Mrs K bought  a sofa through A Share & Sons. At the time they also 
bought a warranty  an insurance  policy to cover the sofa against  stains  and structural 
defects. In March 2018 they attempted to make  a claim for a burn,  but were told the policy  
didnt cover then for rips tears or burns.  Mr and Mrs K said they were  told specifically by the 
sales rep that the warranty covered all sorts of accidental damage.  Mrs K picked up a leaflet 
in store  that confirmed this sort of damage  was covered.
A Share  & Sons said that the policy had been  extended to cover this sort of damage,  but 
only in December 2016. Mrs K picked up the leaflet in March  2018. It showed us that the 
updated leaflets  were only released to stores after December 2016. It also contended that 
the sale of the policy  wasnt a regulated activity  and we had no jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint.
I issued a decision saying  that we do have  jurisdiction.  Our investigator put the complaint  
back to A Share & Sons, but received no response. He issued a view,  saying that it was 
likely that the policy  was missold. As Mr and Mrs K said they wouldnt have bought  the 
policy, he proposed  that A Share & Sons  refund the cost of the policy  with any interest 
payments Mr and Mrs K had made on finance, and pay 8% interest on the payment.
Mr and Mrs K accepted the view, but A Share & Sons hasnt responded.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr and Mrs K bought their sofa in October 2016, some two months  before the 
terms of the policy  changed  to cover  accidental damage. They say that the sales  rep 
assured them when buying the sofa that the warranty would cover them for all sorts  of 
accidental damage.  As they had children they thought it would be worth  purchasing.  
I understand that the leaflet Mrs K picked up was the later one which  only applied after 
December 2016.  But it seems to me to be likely that they were assured accidental  damage 
was covered possibly  because  the sales reps were  aware of the extended coverage  under  
the new policies  to come into effect in December 2016. And as they specifically later went  to 
the store to claim for the burn damage, it also seems  likely that they had been led to believe 
it would  be covered.
The circumstances of the claim were put to A Share & Son. And while  I appreciate that it did 
respond to the initial complaint, it hasnt responded to the investigators request for further 
information. Nor has it responded to the investigators view.
Ref: DRN18731332So I think it is fair to uphold the complaint  and find that the policy  was mis-sold. As 
Mr and Mrs K say they wouldnt have bought the policy had they known about its limited 
coverage, A Share & Sons should  refund the premium paid for the policy, together with any 
interest on that premium  Mr and Mrs K have paid under  the finance agreement. It should 
also pay simple interest  on the premium  at 8% per year from the date of the agreement until 
payment.
Mr and Mrs K should understand that once  the premium is refunded, they will not be able to 
make any claim  under  the warranty. I note that in fact they did make another claim for a 
structural defect that was accepted. I dont think it would be fair to make  Mr and Mrs K pay 
for that claim, so I shall direct accordingly.
my final decision
 I uphold the complaint and require A. Share & Sons  Limited to:
pay to Mr and Mrs K the cost of the premium  for the sofa warranty  policy  taken out in 
October 2016.
pay back any interest paid by Mr and Mrs K under that policy  under the finance 
agreement taken  out at the same time.
pay 8% simple interest* on the said premium  from the date of sale of the policy  until 
payment
I further direct A. Share & Sons Limited  not to seek any repayment from Mr and Mrs K for 
the claim they successfully made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
* If A. Share  & Sons Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs K a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1873133