K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI)  wont pay his home  insurance  claim for 
storm damage to his home.
background
In February 2019  following high winds, stone  slips and stone facings  became  detached  from 
Mr H's home causing damage to a pitched roof below and to his car. He claimed  for the car 
damage under his car insurance and made a claim to UKI in respect of the damage to his 
home.
UKI sent out a surveyor to review  the damage. They concluded that the stone slips had 
become detached  from the brickwork. They  were  attached by mortar spots which  didnt give 
a full bond allowing water  to penetrate over the years. In light of this UKI concluded that the 
storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. As Mr H didnt have accidental damage cover  
under his policy any damage  caused by the tiles falling onto another  part of the roof wasnt  
covered.
Mr H disputed the findings and said the work  had only been done five years previously. UKI 
maintained its decision  but agreed  that there was a delay in advising Mr H of its decision. 
For this it paid him £60.
On referral to this service  our investigator  advised  that he didnt think that the storm was the 
main cause of the damage, so thought  that UKI had acted reasonably. He noted  that there 
was no expert report to support Mr Hs view as to the condition of the stone slips.
Mr H didnt agree and said that in his opinion regardless of the age and condition of any 
property, if the damage caused was a direct  result of a storm condition  then there  shouldn't 
be any arguments
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator advised Mr H in storm damage cases  we ask three questions. It is only if 
the answer to each  of those questions is yes that Im likely to agree that a claim for storm 
damage is supportable. The questions are:
1. were there storm conditions on or around  the date the damage is said to have
    happened?
2. is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
I wont go into this too deeply. I think UKI has acknowledged that there were storm 
conditions. In particular  It appears that there  was a named storm in the area at the time of 
the claim producing  windspeeds of around  60 mph.  In the absence of any definition  in the 
Ref: DRN14846812policy we usually say a storm consists of violent winds accompanied by heavy rain, hail or 
snow. So I think there were storm conditions.
is the damage consistent with storm?
The damage here consists of stone  slips being  blown  down.  As a storm might typically  cause 
tiles to blow off the roof I think the damage  here is consistent with a storm.
was the storm the main  cause of the damage?
According to the surveyors report produced by UKI, the extension  to the main home is built 
of solid stone. In order  to match with the main house, stone slips have been attached to the 
brickwork. However it was noted  that where the stone  slips had come off they had been 
attached by mortar spots. The slips should  have been bedded  in a full bed of mortar. 
Because they werent there were voids behind the slips allowing rain to get in. In the expert  
view of the surveyor this had caused  the slips to delaminate over time.  The storm had 
merely highlighted the delamination. This meant that the damage to the slips had been 
caused by poor workmanship  and/or wear and tear over time. These  are excluded under the 
policy. And as they appear to be the main cause of the damage  rather  than storm the 
answer to this final question is no.
Mr H has expressed  a view that as the damage was a direct result of the storm it should  be 
covered regardless  of the age or condition  of the house. Unfortunately it doesnt work like 
that. Home insurance policies arent  a substitute  for keeping a property maintained, and 
wont cover  damage which was already there  and likely not to withstand high winds.  That 
happened here and whilst  the winds may have blown off the stone slips this shouldnt have 
happened had they been bedded properly.
When considering  such cases we have to rely on expert evidence.  And that evidence gives a 
clear expert view as to the cause of the damage, backed up by photos of the slips on 
question. As I havent seen any expert view to counter that I think it reasonable to accept it.
I confirm that, as Mr H doesnt  have  accidental damage cover under his policy, the damage 
caused by the stone  slips falling onto the pitched roof below is unfortunately not covered 
either.
So far as the decision  on the claim is concerned Mr H was advised of the surveyors view on 
the day. However it took a month for UKI to formally  advise him of its decision,  and this was 
only after Mr H chased up for it. For this UKI paid him £60 compensation. I think  thats  fair 
and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1484681