K821x#15Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy taken out to protect  a store card. 
The store card and PPI were taken out at the same time in 2001. FICL has taken  
responsibility for the sale of PPI, and for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs S took out in 2001.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint because I dont think FICL gave her clear enough 
information about the policy. Ill explain why. 
FICL didnt  recommend the sale. But FICL still had to provide Mrs S with enough  information  
for her to decide  whether  the policy was right for her. The terms and conditions  that likely  
apply to Mrs Ss policy say that she wasnt able to claim for any period of disability that 
results from any sickness, disease,  condition and injury which she knew about or should  
have known about or for which she received advice, treatment or counselling from any 
doctor during  the 12 months  before  the start date. And Im not persuaded Mrs Ss attention  
was drawn to this limitation.
What I need to think about  is whether  Mrs S wouldve bought  the policy if shed  been  given the 
right information. Mrs S says she had a long term medical condition.  And, while it appears to 
have been under control at the time of sale there  was no way of knowing it would stay this way. 
FICL thinks that as Mrs Ss condition hadnt  caused  her to take time off work  at the time of 
sale, it does not believe that she was impacted by this limitation  of the policy. I disagree. Just 
because Mrs Ss condition hadnt caused her to take time off at the time of sale,  doesnt  
mean it wouldnt affect her day to day life in the future.    
Thinking about  the life long nature of the condition, I think its likely  that it wouldve been  at the 
forefront of her mind when deciding  if she might want cover to protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work. 
So I think Mrs Ss medical condition wouldve played  an important role in her decision on 
whether to purchase a policy including accident  and sickness  cover.  And given the nature of 
Mrs Ss condition,  I dont think that she wouldve bought the policy if hed been told  as she 
shouldve done   she wouldnt be able to claim if she couldnt work because  of it. I dont 
think Mrs S wouldve bought the policy  if shed  been  provided with clear enough information. 
So, I think Mrs S has lost out because of what FICL  did wrong. Ive also thought about what  
FICL has said about Mrs S being  able to claim for other conditions, but this doesnt change  
my decision.  
Ref: DRN15840642putting things right
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
And what FICL need to do will depend on if Mrs Ss store account is still open.
if Mrs Ss store card account is still open:
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs S would owe on her card if the policy  hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owes  and what  she 
would have owed.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs S paid more than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra  Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest 
until the point  when Mrs S wouldve owed FICL something on her card.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs S what its done  to work out A and B.
if Mrs Ss store card account is now closed:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owed when she closed she 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount they owe her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest (at 8% a year)  on the difference  between what  Mrs S 
wouldve owed when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund.
Ref: DRN15840643C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs S would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest (at 
8% a year)  on the extra Mrs S paid. And they should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs S wouldve owed FICL something  on her store  card.
D.FICL should tell Mrs S what theyve done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs S a certificate  
showing how much tax FICL have taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1584064