K820x#14complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity 
Company has made mistakes in dealing with the chargeback of a card payment.
background
A took a card payment  of £1,900 over the phone on 30 May 2018.  It dispatched  the goods to 
the address it had been given and has proof of delivery. The cardholder disputed the 
payment and the card issuer raised a chargeback. A sent documents to defend  the 
chargeback but these  were not accepted as sufficient proof. It has lost the money and it 
does not think  Elavon  did enough to help it.
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-There was a particular  risk in taking  payments  where the card was not present.
-This service could not overturn a decision made under the rules of the relevant card 
scheme by a third party.
-It was not clear whether Elavon had sent a copy of the payment receipt when 
attempting to defend the chargeback.  But it had sent a copy of the invoice showing 
the cardholders correct address. 
-The card transaction  details showed  that the correct card verification value (CVV) 
was not present.
-A was unhappy with the process Elavon followed,  especially after it had issued a final 
response to the complaint. But it didnt then need to take any further  action.
A did not agree. It said that the member of staff who processed the payment was certain that 
a CVV was entered. A says that it is unable  to enter  a sale without the CVV and using an 
incorrect number would  not result in an authorisation.  Elavon had firstly said that the address 
verification (AVS)  did not match but it had done. So it could  have got the information about 
the CVV wrong  too. A says that Elavon did not listen to what it said from the start and thinks  
that it delayed  the process and is now trying to find excuses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A had entered into an agreement with Elavon for merchant processing.  The customer 
operating instructions state that a card not present transaction carries a higher risk. And that 
A is liable if the transaction  is found  to be fraudulent with authorisation not being a guarantee 
of payment.
I understand that the investigator  has now sent A a copy  of the batch  report  from Elavon 
about this payment. This confirmed  that the AVS matched - but that the CVV did not. Elavon  
has told this service that the CVV was not entered and that there  is an option with a mail or 
telephone order  to bypass using this. 
There are published  rules relating to the relevant card scheme  which cover chargebacks. 
Once the card issuer  has raised a chargeback  request  on behalf of its cardholder then it is 
up to the acquirer, here Elavon, to send any compelling evidence  to show  the payment was 
a genuine one. Elavon  contacted  A about this. It is clear that it had sent evidence  to the 
issuer as it provided A with an extract of the issuers response.
Ref: DRN19923962The issuer  stated that the evidence was not sufficient. The name and phone number of the 
customer did not match that of its cardholder. The signature for the delivery  did not match 
that in its records. It said that Elavon had not provided it with any valid AVS or CVV values. It 
still seemed to be aware that the AVS match was recorded as F which meant  it was full. But 
it said that the CVV had not been verified. 
Elavons position  is that it had no other arguments  against the chargeback and related rights 
to challenge it further. There is an arbitration process but that would require new evidence 
that had not been considered before.  The issuer  had a copy of the invoice that A had 
provided and proof of delivery. But Elavon has said that address verification is not enough to 
confirm the payment and does not rule out the address of the cardholder being compromised 
in some way.
Im satisfied on balance  that a correct CVV number was not entered to verify this payment. 
And that Elavon took reasonable steps to defend the chargeback  and that the issuer was 
given the relevant information about the CVV. Elavon  issued a final response to A about the 
complaint and apologised for the difficulty A had in contacting  it. Im afraid I dont have a 
basis to say that it should compensate A for its loss or do anything  further.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1992396