K820x#14complaint
Mr B1 on behalf of the estate of Mr B2 makes a number of complaints  about  how Lloyds 
Bank PLC dealt with the distribution  of money  held in the late Mr B2s account.
background
Mr B1 and his sister are joint executors and beneficiaries of the late Mr B2s estate.  In 2017 
following Mr B2s death, Mr B1s sister  attended a Lloyds branch  and was allowed to transfer 
the money held in his accounts  to her own. Mr B1 raises a number of questions regarding  
that decision and also about Lloyds process and systems in dealing  with such requests.
Mr B1 says Lloyds process lacked clarity and is inconsistent  with other businesses 
practices. He says for example, Lloyds limit of £50,000 to allow  a distribution of estate 
without a Grant of Probate is one of the highest.  Mr B1 says Lloyds hasnt exercised 
reasonable skill, care and diligence  here and says its processes and procedures fail to meet  
that standard. He also says Lloyds failed  to answer  his questions about that test. Mr B1 
questions the identification of his sister  when she attended a branch and contrasts that with 
how he was identified before Lloyds would  speak to him. 
Mr B1 would  like someone qualified from Lloyds to answer the questions he raised and to 
provide an agreed  set of probate guidelines. He also says Lloyds should be penalised.
Lloyds doesnt  accept making a mistake and says it followed  its probate procedure.  It says it 
allowed Mr B1s sister access  to the late Mr B2s account and that she provided it with the 
appropriate documents and evidence. Lloyds has accepted it should have contacted  Mr B1 
sooner than it did when he contacted it and has paid £150 compensation (to an organisation 
of Mr B1s choice).
Mr B1 brought  his complaint to us and provided us with a list of his main points of concern. 
In summary  he says he doesnt dispute  that his sister had authority to transact on the late Mr 
B2s account  but says Lloyds should have required  her to provide  reasons why he wasnt 
there and the fact that his sister was also a beneficiary should  have raised  a red flag.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and thought that Lloyds didnt need the consent 
of Mr B1 before releasing the money  to his sister. The investigator also thought that this was 
largely a dispute  between  the parties and that Mr B1 should seek  legal advice.
Mr B1 doesnt accept  that view and has raised  a number  of questions which he would like 
answers to. He says the investigator hasnt  dealt with his point about Lloyds common law 
duty to exercise  reasonable skill and diligence. He also says the document  Lloyds  sent him 
about his sisters identification suggests proper checks  were  not carried  out. Mr B1 would like 
Lloyds to pay him the money he is owed and recover it from his sister and that it should  pay 
him compensation for his time in researching  matters and for the distress hes been caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr B1 will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened and his concerns about  Lloyds  
approach and policies on these matters.  I also make clear to Mr B1 that I have  read all of his 
letters to us and to Lloyds but I have summarised the main  points he makes  in this decision.
Ref: DRN15663742I appreciate that Mr B1 has raised  a number of questions about Lloyds procedures and 
policies and its interpretation of what he says are the standards  it must meet which  he says 
Lloyds hasnt answered. I appreciate Mr B1s frustration in those circumstances but I must 
make clear  to Mr B1 that we are not the regulator  of banks  and building societies and would 
not normally interfere  in how a business  exercised  its commercial judgement. So I cant fairly 
order it to provide those  answers or for example order  it to change or explain  why it uses the 
limit of £50,000 before requiring a Grant of Probate.  I also cant make a finding  that Lloyds 
has acted contrary to any law or common law as that would be a matter for a court  or impose 
any sort of penalty as Mr B1 suggests as that would be role of the regulator to decide upon.
Ive looked at Lloyds actions in allowing Mr B1s sister to withdraw  the money and whether it 
followed its rules and requirements in those circumstances. Having done so Im satisfied that 
Lloyds doesnt  require a Grant of Probate  as the accounts held less than £50,000. I 
appreciate Mr B1 says that limit is different  to other  businesses but for the reasons Ive 
explained that is not something I can consider. I think it likely that Mr B1s sister  provided a 
copy of the documents Lloyds required including the will and provided appropriate 
identification. I appreciate the document Lloyds gave Mr B1 suggested  it hadnt  received the 
appropriate identification but having  seen Lloyds response on that - that it did receive the 
evidence  Im satisfied that a mistake wasnt made. And so I dont think  Lloyds  made a 
mistake by allowing  the withdrawal.
I appreciate that Mr B1 says that Lloyds should have  checked with the other executor why 
he wasnt present but I dont think Lloyds made  a mistake  and has followed its rules on such  
matters. And I dont think it reasonably could have been aware of any potential dispute 
between the executors.
For the reasons  Ive explained, as I dont  think Lloyds  has made a mistake, I cant fairly order 
it to pay Mr B1 his share of the money and order it to recover it from Mr Bs sister. And I cant 
order Lloyds to pay any compensation to Mr B1. I make clear that normally we wouldnt 
order compensation in any event for any distress or inconvenience caused to an executor of 
an estate but could order, in the event of a mistake,  a payment to the estate itself.
I accept that Mr B1 will remain frustrated by my decision and that his questions  for Lloyds 
remain largely unanswered. He may want to take things further through  other routes. But my 
decision brings to an end what we, in trying  to resolve his dispute with Lloyds informally,  can 
do. Im sorry were not able to help Mr B1 any more on the matter.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1566374