K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs F says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Fs credit card application form. On this 
form theres an option to indicate if PPI is required.  An X has been typed next to this 
option. 
As this sale took place  in a meeting and some  of Mrs Fs other  personal details have 
also been typed  on the form, I think that its more likely than not that the X was 
added following a discussion between the adviser  and Mrs F to reflect what shed 
decided.
I think that Mrs F then signed the overall  form to agree to what she was taking out.
Although Mrs F has said that she was unaware that PPI had been taken out, as she 
was oblivious to it, Ive also considered  that the PPI premiums would have appeared 
on her monthly credit  card statements  when  she had an outstanding balance.  I think 
that Mrs F would quite reasonably have questioned why she was paying for PPI if it 
had been added without her knowledge.  
But I havent seen  evidence that she did and the PPI remained on her account for 
some time after it was taken out. As this sale took place so long ago, its possible that 
Mrs F may not recall  everything clearly now. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs F so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said - including what  shes said about her existing 
means of making  her repayments  if she was unwell and unable to work. 
Ref: DRN16411722But after six months  Mrs Fs sick pay would have decreased to half sick pay. This PPI policy 
would have paid out for up to 12 months  per claim. So I still think  that the recommendation to 
take PPI was suitable and that the policy was right for Mrs F and these points dont  change  
my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  
doesnt need to refund everything Mrs F paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as 
Halifax) has already offered to give Mrs F back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it 
needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) will make arrangements to pay Mrs F now Ive 
issued my final decision
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1641172