K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nextcredit Limited lent him money that he couldnt  afford  to repay.
background
Mr A took out two loans with Nextcredit.  The first in February 2017 and the second in 
October 2017. Both loans were for £500,  each  to be repaid by six monthly  instalments of 
between £153  and £154.
Mr A said it was irresponsible of Nextcredit to agree these  as he was taking out loans from 
multiple companies. Mr A wants  Nextcredit to freeze interest and charges on the loans. Mr A 
wants Nextcredit to pay him compensation.
Nextcredit said that when  Mr A completed each online application it asked  for information 
about his employment, income  and outgoings,  including any credit  commitments.  
Before agreeing the first loan, Nextcredit  recorded Mr As net monthly income to be over 
£3,200. Mr A declared monthly outgoings of about £1,100  which included monthly credit 
commitments of about £680. 
By the time that Mr A asked for the second  loan, Nextcredit recorded  the same  income  figure 
but Mr As monthly outgoings had increased to £1,250 with £1,000  of credit commitments.
Nextcredit said that it also verified Mr As income  by checking with a credit reference  agency.
Nextcredit said that it accepted Mr As repayment  proposals in May 2018,  having frozen 
interest and charges since April 2018.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld. Although the adjudicator  
noted that Mr A had only complained to Nextcredit about his second loan, the adjudicator 
also considered  Mr As first loan.
The adjudicator thought  that Nextcredit carried  out proportionate checks for both loans. 
Based on the information Mr A provided,  the adjudicator didnt think  it was wrong  of 
Nextcredit to agree  to lend.
Mr A isnt happy with the adjudicators recommendation. Mr A says his bank statements 
prove that the loans werent affordable. Mr A says the fact that he borrowed again so soon  
after repaying loan one shouldve raised  concerns.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators recommendation. 
Nextcredit was required  to lend responsibly  and carry out checks  before agreeing  to lend to 
make sure Mr A was able to repay  each  loan. These  checks  had to be proportionate to 
things such as the amount of the loan, the repayments and any lending history.  But there 
wasnt a set list of checks  Nextcredit had to do.
Ref: DRN16186752Mr A declared his monthly  income to be around £3,240. The monthly repayments on each  
loan represented  a very modest proportion of Mr As income.  I wouldve thought it was 
reasonable of Nextcredit to decide  to lend based on knowing  Mr As income  alone.
As Nextcredit went further than this, I need  to consider whether it took proper account of the 
information that it gathered. Mr A said that he lived with his parents so didnt include any 
outgoings for rent or utilities. 
Based on the credit  checks that Nextcredit  carried out, it appeared that Mr A was able to 
keep up with his financial commitments. I think  it was reasonable of Nextcredit to accept the 
information that Mr A gave was truthful. 
I dont consider that Nextcredit shouldve gone on to independently verify the information 
Mr A gave about his finances. So I wouldnt have expected Nextcredit  to ask for copy bank 
statements. 
Overall, it appeared  to Nextcredit that Mr A had enough disposable  income left each time to 
afford to repay both loans. I appreciate that Mr As financial situation was worse  than he 
disclosed to Nextcredit. But I wouldnt have expected proportionate checks  to have revealed 
this. It follows  that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.  Im sorry that this is likely to come  as a 
disappointment to him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1618675