K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained he was mis-sold a credit card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  by 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mr T took out the PPI in September 2004 when he applied for a credit  card.  BoS said the 
sale took place  during  a meeting and that Mr T was advised to take the cover. Mr T said he 
wasnt given a choice  about taking the PPI, and that he didnt need it as he had good 
employee benefits. 
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mr T had successfully  claimed  on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when he stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
so didnt uphold  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mr Ts credit card agreement.  The document  shows a cross in a box to 
say that Mr T wanted PPI (but no cross  in a second  box relating to another insurance 
product). The cross  was pre-printed  but so was all the other information on the form, 
including Mr Ts income and employment  details. So I think its most likely that the form was 
printed out after a discussion with the adviser   and that the PPI formed part of that 
discussion. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr T was given a choice about  
whether to take the PPI and that he agreed  to it. I think he probably just doesnt remember 
doing so after all this time. 
Im satisfied that BoS advised Mr T to take out the policy. So BoS had to make  sure that the 
PPI was suitable for Mr T. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mr T wouldve been affected  by any of 
these. 
Mr T said he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of six months  full pay and 
six months half pay. He also said that he had about £2,000  in savings  so about  a months 
pay based on the salary  shown  on the credit card agreement. Ive thought carefully about  
everything Mr T has said, but overall I think Mr T couldve found it difficult  to meet the 
monthly payments  on the card once  his sick pay reduced or if he lost his job. And Ive kept in 
mind that the policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim. So on balance I dont 
think there was anything wrong  with BoS recommending  the PPI. 
Ref: DRN11058982Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mr T. As Ive said,  I cant know  
how the adviser explained the policy, or when Mr T mightve been  given  a policy  summary. 
So its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not have been as clear as it 
shouldve been.  
However, given Mr Ts circumstances, I dont think more detailed information about  the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed his decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if hed been unable to work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
T paid for it. But BoS has already  offered  to give Mr T back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has made this payment to Mr T.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1105898