K821x#15complaint
Ms N complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  (AXA) has declined  her claim under her 
private medical insurance policy  (PMI).  She also complains about the service AXA has 
provided her and how they communicated their decision.
 
background
Ms N has had chemotherapy to treat breast cancer.  As a result shes  experienced 
chemically induced  ovarian  failure and is going through  early menopause. Shes also been 
told that she has an elevated level of CA 125, a protein which  is used as a marker for 
ovarian cancer.  Ms Ns consultant has recommended she has surgery,  a therapeutic 
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy to prevent her developing  ovarian cancer,  and also to make 
management of her menopausal symptoms easier.
AXA declined Ms Ns claim for funding of the surgery as they said her policy  didnt cover  
symptoms related to the natural ageing process,  her breast cancer  had resolved and as a 
scan had shown no evidence of metastatic  disease,  her claim wasnt  covered as her policy 
didnt cover preventative  treatment.
Ms N complained to AXA who didnt change their opinion.
Ms N then complained  to our service. Our investigator considered  the case and partially 
upheld Ms Ns complaint.  He felt AXA declined Ms Ns claim fairly as the treatment was 
preventative. But he did think  AXA should  have explained clearly  to Ms N how they arrived at 
their decision. And he agreed with Ms N that there was no sensitivity  in how they relayed 
their decision. He recommended AXA pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience  this 
caused.
Ms N didnt accept our investigators findings  as she didnt accept that her recommended 
surgery was preventative, and she didnt think £200  was sufficient compensation for the time 
shed spent trying to resolve her claim with AXA. Our investigator reviewed his findings but 
didnt change his opinion.
After our investigator issued his findings  Ms N provided  further medical evidence for AXA to 
consider. Having considered this AXA maintained its position that the treatment was 
preventative, but it also said the treatment isnt conventional, so it was also excluded for this 
reason, as the policy only covers conventional treatment.  Having  considered the further 
medical evidence  our investigator  agreed with AXA. But he maintained  that AXA should 
compensate Ms N £200 for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused.
Ms N doesnt accept that her recommended treatment is preventative, and AXA doesnt think 
they should pay any compensation to her, as they correctly declined  her claim
As Ms N and AXA didnt  accept our investigators findings, the case has come to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14405922Im aware that Ms N has done a lot of research about her condition  and, understandably 
given the health problems  shes had, she has very strong views about  AXA funding the 
treatment that her consultants have recommended. 
Having considered the medical evidence Ms N has provided its clear her treating 
consultants agree the surgery is medically  necessary. But the issue  here is whether or not 
its covered by Ms Ns policy. Private medical insurance is intended to compliment treatment 
available under the NHS and to provide  benefit to treat acute medical conditions.
AXA has given a number  of reasons for declining Ms Ns claim. Theyve said: -
the treatment has been  recommended to treat symptoms generally  associated with 
the natural process  of ageing, in this case the menopause
the treatment is preventative
the recommended surgery isnt conventional  treatment.
So, I need to consider  whether it was fair and reasonable for AXA to decline Ms Ns claim on 
these grounds.
One of the exclusions in Ms Ns policy states:-
We do not pay for treatment of symptoms  generally  associated  with the natural process of 
ageing. This includes  treatment for the symptoms of puberty and menopause. 
Ms N has told us one of the reasons  she needs the therapeutic  bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy is to help stabilise her hormone  levels and make treatment of her chemically 
induced premature menopause more effective.  Ms Ns consultant  wrote to AXA saying: -
you have indicated that you do not cover  the natural  ageing  process.However,  she is 
not going through the natural ageing  process.  She has a premature failure of her ovaries 
brought on by the treatment for her breast cancer
Im satisfied the medical evidence confirms that Ms Ns early  menopause has been  brought 
on prematurely by her cancer treatment. So, I dont think AXA can rely on this exclusion.
Ms N disagrees with AXAs view that her treatment is preventative. Shes  said the primary 
reason for the recommended surgery to remove her ovaries was to ensure her hormones 
remain on an even keel. She also says her doctors  dont want her ovarian function  to 
resume, which she says is a possibility,  as this would make delivering the appropriate level 
of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) impossible. 
And she says that removal of her ovaries would ensure her HRT remains  accurate and her 
hormone levels are maintained.  While  removal of her ovaries will prevent her developing 
ovarian cancer,  she says that although she suffers from a mutation which  puts her at higher 
risk of ovarian cancer, there is no formal medical  recommendation for this, and none of her 
doctors would  advocate  this as the primary reason  for her to have this surgery.
Ms N has also told us that over the last two years shes had an horrendous time as a result  
of fluctuating and diminishing hormones,  but shes now on HRT and her life has been 
transformed.
Ref: DRN14405923Looking at the medical evidence I dont agree with Ms Ns view that regulating  her hormones 
was the primary reason  removal  of her ovaries was recommended. 
In March this year one of Ms Ns consultants wrote to AXA about  why the decision was 
made to remove her ovaries.  She said: -
You will be aware that Ms N has been treated for breast malignancy. The treatment led to a 
premature menopause which is difficult to manage  alongside her breast cancer.  In addition, 
there was concern . that her CA 125 was high at the time of her breast  cancer diagnosis. 
We know from the literature that a rising CA 125 can precede clinically  detected ovarian 
lesions.
And: -
I feel the safest thing  in this case,  is to proceed to a therapeutic bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy and to insert a ..intrauterine  device at the same  time to manage her 
hormonal imbalance.
In April this year another of Ms Ns consultants wrote to AXA saying: -
(Ms N) had a diagnosis  of breast cancer and at the time of diagnosis  had a markedly 
elevated CA 125 which can be breast but is often an ovarian marker.This did however 
generate concern about her ovaries and I have  recommended a therapeutic  bilateral 
salpingo - oophorectomy to minimise the need  for ongoing  ovarian surveillance and would 
be grateful if you could consider it.
Both consultants refer to the need for surgery  because of her elevated CA 125 levels and 
the risk of ovarian cancer. So, looking  at the medical evidence  Im persuaded that this was 
the primary reason  Ms Ns consultants recommended  removal  of her ovaries. It wasnt  as 
she has said to regulate her hormone  levels.  
Following her breast cancer  treatment, a consultants letter confirms that Ms N had no 
evidence of metastatic disease  elsewhere. Considering this and the comments  made by her 
consultants Ive referred to above,  I think it was recommended  that Ms N have a therapeutic  
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy to prevent the risk of her developing ovarian cancer.  
Her policy doesnt cover preventative treatment, so I dont think  AXA did anything wrong in 
declining her claim for this reason.
Ive also considered the further medical  evidence Ms N provided to AXA,  a letter from her 
breast surgeon and oncologist dated  May 2019, two letters from her gynaecologist dated  
June and July 2019 and a letter from her oncologist dated August 2019.  
In May 2019  her breast  surgeon says HRT is being  arranged for Ms N and her retained 
ovaries and unpredictability regarding their function  may make this more  difficult  to 
prescribe. In June  her gynaecologist  says Ms N would like a prophylactic bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy and she considers this to be entirely reasonable, and that shes  very  
comfortable with her starting  HRT. In July 2019  the gynaecologist says Ms Ns CA 125 is 
normal and shes taking  HRT and is feeling much  better. She also says that Ms N has 
considerable anxiety about her increased  risk of ovarian cancer and the possibility of her 
ovarian activity recovering and this affecting her hormone levels  and destabilising her mood. 
And in August 2019 her oncologist confirms Ms N is doing well on HRT. She goes on to say 
My remaining concern is that we are able to maintain her hormonal status as it is currently  
Ref: DRN14405924on HRT and my preference is that her normal ovarian function does not return as it will 
interfere with this and I would recommend an oophorectomy.
AXA considered this evidence and maintained that the recommended  surgery was 
preventative, but also said it wasnt conventional treatment, as it was now being 
recommended to stabilise Ms Ns hormone levels.
The further medical evidence indicates  that Ms Ns CA 125 levels are normal, although  I 
appreciate this remains under surveillance. Her hormone levels are currently well controlled 
by HRT.  And removal  of her ovaries is recommended to ensure her normal ovarian function 
doesnt return. On the basis of all the medical  evidence Im satisfied that the recommended 
surgery is both preventative and also not conventional treatment to regulate hormone levels.  
And while I understand why Ms N wants this surgery,  Im persuaded that AXA are correct  
and it isnt covered  by her policy.
While I dont think AXA have done anything wrong  in declining  Ms N claim they were fully 
aware of Ms Ns history  and should  have understood her concerns about her health. I think 
AXA could have  handled  Ms Ns claim with more  sensitivity and explained more clearly  why 
her claim was being declined. When advising Ms N of their decision,  instead of providing  a 
clear explanation of why her claim had been  declined, AXA simply referred  her to her policy 
terms and conditions. Although they knew her surgery was already booked  and why it had 
been recommended.
Ms N has told us that the claims  process  has been very stressful.  Shes concerned  about the 
number of different  people shes  had to speak to and provide details of very personal 
information relating  to her health.  This is despite AXA knowing how strongly she feels about 
sharing such personal information. It should  have  been  clear  to AXA from the 
correspondence they received from Ms N, and their conversations  with her, how distressing 
she was finding  dealing with them. 
So, Im persuaded  that AXAs handling  of Ms Ns claim  has caused her distress and 
inconvenience and to put things right I require AXA to pay Ms N £200.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I partially uphold Ms Ns complaint 
against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.  And to put things right I require them to pay her £200 
for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1440592