K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ms representative, a claims management  company  (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable  investment advice by Santander UK Plc. 
The CMC says the advice to invest  was too soon after the death of Mrs Ms husband  and 
more risk than Mrs M shouldve been advised  to take. 
 
background
Mrs M met with an adviser from Santander in July 2001. She was advised to invest a total of 
£7,000; £3,000 in a cash ISA and £4,000 in a Balanced Portfolio  Growth held in a stocks 
and shares ISA.
The stocks  and shares ISA was encashed in May 2005 at a loss of around  £185. The cash
ISA remains in place.
In May 2018, Mrs M met with the CMC, and following that meeting, agreed to make a 
complaint to Santander. In short, she complained  that:
She was advised  to invest the money  too soon after receiving it.
She shouldnt have been  advised  to expose her money to risk given that she was 
working part-time and was reliant only on her own income.
She was advised  to take too much risk with her money. She was aware that her 
investment could fluctuate in value, but the funds recommended were  too high risk 
for a first time investor.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
On balance, the investment was too risky for Mrs M. 
She was assessed  as a balanced risk investor  but opted for medium  risk after 
discussion with the adviser. The jump from no risk  as shed been all her life  to 
medium risk was too big a jump.  
She also made the investment  only a month  after her husband died. She was likely to 
be vulnerable  and wholly reliant  on the adviser. 
She wouldnt have  been in a position to overrule  the advisers recommendation. 
Mrs M should  be paid compensation based  on a small risk, with 8% simple interest.  
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators view. In short  it said:
Mrs M was able to make an informed choice  about the level of risk she wanted to 
take.
It didnt understand  or agree with the recommended  redress.
It was also not unusual for investors to disagree  with advisers.
As the adjudicator didnt agree too much money  had been invested,  on the basis of 
the recorded information, the risk was suitable  for Mrs M. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN14994132my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont  think the advice was suitable. 
I note it was recorded that Mrs M was a balanced risk investor. Whilst its fair to say certain  
questions were asked  of Mrs M to arrive at the conclusion that that she was a medium  risk 
investor  Im uncertain  as to the reasoning behind this being identified  as her attitude  to 
risk. 
Mrs M was an inexperienced first time investor and had a tendency to take no risk at all. 
Although she was working part-time,  she had just lost her husband a month earlier. Given 
the circumstances, I dont think it was a great  time for her to invest. More  importantly Im not 
persuaded this was an accurate or correct assessment of Mrs Ms attitude to risk. 
Im not suggesting she wasnt  willing to accept  any risk, but in my view the investment 
exposed Mrs M to a level of risk she wasnt prepared to accept. And there  appears  to be no 
reason for her to go beyond the scope of products which  offered  anything other than a low / 
cautious risk. 
In this instance Im persuaded that the funds exposed  Mrs Ms money to too much risk. 
Despite what Santander says, Im not persuaded that she was prepared to take more  than a 
small risk with this portion of their money.
Whilst it might not have been unusual for investors  to disagree with the adviser, in this 
instance, I dont  think the same  could be said of Mrs M, who was an inexperienced investor 
and was more  likely  (than not) to rely on the advice she was given. 
So, taking all the above points into account, Im not of the view the recommendation was 
suitable for Mrs M. 
Because she was prepared  to take some  risk, as opposed to no risk at all, I dont  think the 
adjudicators recommendation to use the 50/50  bench mark is unsuitable.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
M as close to the position she would probably  now be in if she had not been  given  
unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that Mrs M would  have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Santander do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Santander must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
Ref: DRN14994133below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Santander  should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Abbey 
National  
Balanced 
Portfolio 
Growth 
Fund.  
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Santander 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Ref: DRN14994134I consider that Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs M into that position.  It does not mean that Mrs 
M would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker  fund. Rather, I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly  
reflects the sort of return Mrs M could  have obtained  from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay the amount  
calculated as set out above.
Santander UK Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mrs M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
..
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1499413