K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC is acting unfairly and unreasonably by 
charging her interest for borrowing money from a mortgage current account.  She wants the 
interest written off and not charged in the future.
background
Miss L had a mortgage with Barclays which had a current account attached. She made a 
complaint in 2015, saying that she thought the mortgage current account had been mis-sold  
as she said shed been told interest wouldnt be charged. Barclays accepted that Miss L 
mightve been told incorrect information  and upheld the complaint. Miss L said it refunded all 
the interest paid to date and also waived the right to future interest. But Miss L was charged 
interest on the mortgage current  account since March 2015. She said that this was unfair 
and unreasonable.
Miss L complained to Barclays.  It said it had dealt with the mis-selling  claim in 2015 and was 
able to charge  interest. It pointed out that it had sent regular statements to Miss L telling her 
about the interest charged.
Miss L complained to us. The investigators  view was that in its final response  to Miss L in 
March 2015, Barclays didnt say it wouldnt charge interest in the future. It paid £450 as a 
gesture of goodwill as the branch involved had closed  down  and £100  for the time taken to 
deal with the complaint. The investigator noted that in the notes made by Barclays  at the 
time, Miss L was told over the phone  about the interest rate that applied and which would  be 
charged when  her complaint was dealt with. The investigator explained that it was too late to 
bring the original  complaint to this service, so we couldnt look at the mis-selling  complaint 
and there  was no objective evidence that Barclays promised to waive  interest in the future.
Miss L disagreed. She said that she couldnt  afford to pay interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im only able to deal with the complaint 
alleging that Barclays  promised not to charge  interest  for the mortgage  current  account in 
2015.
From the evidence available to me, Barclays didnt promise not to charge interest for the 
mortgage current account in 2015.  In fact, the evidence  shows that both in its 2015 final 
response letter and on the phone (as I think the notes  made  at the time by Barclays are 
more likely than not to be correct) Miss L was told that interest would be charged and the 
rate. Barclays didnt actually uphold her mis-selling complaint  it simply said that it wasnt 
able to find out what happened  and paid compensation as a gesture of goodwill. It didnt 
refund all of the interest paid to date by Miss L.
Ref: DRN19264602And under the terms and conditions of the mortgage and the connected current  account, 
Barclays is entitled to charge  interest. To do otherwise would mean  that Miss L got an 
interest-free loan, which wouldnt be fair or reasonable  as other  consumers with the same  
product have to pay interest. I appreciate that Miss L has said that she cant afford  to pay 
interest; if she is in financial difficulties, she should  contact Barclays  and work with it to find a 
solution as lenders are required to treat those in financial difficulties fairly, but this doesnt  
mean interest has to be written off.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 
26 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1926460