K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Sabre Insurance Company Limited  held him to at fault for causing 
an accident under his motor policy. 
background
In April 2018, Mr T was involved in an accident with a motorcycle  or tricycle rider when  the 
road they were  both travelling on split into lanes. Mr T said the traffic  was congested and 
moving slowly,  he checked  his mirrors before manoeuvring,  saw nothing was approaching 
behind him started  to execute his manoeuvre  when this tricycle hit his drivers door.
He didnt believe the accident  was his fault. Sabre  thought differently. It believed  it couldnt 
defend the case if it went  to court,  as it was for Mr T to keep a lookout  doing  any manoeuvre.  
Therefore, it paid the other drivers claim, stepped  back Mr Ts No Claims Discount (NCD)  
and registered  a fault claim on his insurance record,  which  in turn has increased his 
premium.
Mr T complained to Sabre, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. He then brought his 
complaint to us. The investigator also didnt think Sabre had done  anything wrong.
Mr T disagreed so his complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
As the investigator  explained, its not the role of this service to decide which party in this 
case was at fault for causing the accident,  only a court of law can do that. The insurance 
companies representing the parties  can also agree between themselves which party  is more  
likely to be deemed at fault for causing the accident. Its only when the insurers disagree  on 
this  the matter  goes  to court. Its fairly  rare insurers dont agree, since they deal with such 
issues daily as part of their business and are fully aware of what a court is likely to decide in 
most circumstances.  Here the other  party wasnt insured, but instead was represented by a 
lawyer. 
In almost all motor policies, theres a term, which permits the insurer  to take over, defend or 
settle any claim against its policyholder as it think fits. And Sabres policy  is no different. 
Further, when anyone  buys  a motor policy, as Mr T did, hes agreeing to this term. 
My role and that of this service is merely to see if Sabre applied this term to Mr Ts 
circumstances fairly  and reasonably. I consider it did. This is because  it listened to Mr Ts 
account and his further account and took both accounts on board in making its decision. It 
believed given the circumstances, it wouldnt able to prove at court that the accident  wasnt 
Mr Ts fault. 
Its not the case that Sabre didnt allow Mr T to give as full an account as possible. Its also 
not the case that Sabre ignored anything  he said about how the accident occurred either. Its 
simply because as Mr T was indicating and manoeuvring, he is deemed to have the greater 
duty of care.  Theres  no other available evidence  otherwise, such as witnesses or CCTV 
Ref: DRN12165912footage to challenge this or support Mr Ts view that the other party was at fault instead. 
Sabre is entitled  to come to any decision  on this it deems appropriate. Provided it carefully 
took account of Mr Ts evidence on the matter, then it reasonably  came  to its decision, 
irrespective of whether  Mr T agrees with that decision or not. Its my opinion that is the case 
here, which is why I consider Sabre has done  nothing wrong.
I do understand why its upsetting for Mr T that Sabre paid the other drivers claim when he 
wasnt insured. However, the claim for damage  was adequately substantiated by the other 
drivers representatives and in those circumstances despite the lack of insurance, theres 
nothing wrong  in Sabre paying  that claim, rather than also paying  legal costs if the other  
driver issued legal proceedings. That is the point of the term in insurance policies giving the 
insurer unfettered  rights  to deal with any claim as it thinks  fit.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1216591