K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1996. Miss U says HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as First  Direct) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Us case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss U says that it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was optional,  and that she wouldve 
declined it if it had been made  clear  to her. But I think that HSBC  did make  it clear  that the 
policy was optional  although I can understand why Miss U doesnt remember  this as it was 
so long ago.
Miss U applied for her credit card and PPI as part of an account  opening  package. HSBC 
has provided a copy  of her application. I can see in the section for the credit card, the PPI is 
presented as an optional product, and has been  selected. Miss U has then signed this 
section. 
HSBC didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss U so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss U got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss U about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss U.
Ive thought about everything Miss U has said, including what  shes  said about  being entitled 
to sick pay from her employer which meant  she didnt need the PPI. But the PPI couldve 
paid out on top of her existing cover, and for longer than shed have received full pay. So this 
point doesnt change my decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2019.
Ref: DRN18074772Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1807477