K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Berkeley Alexander Ltd (BA) didnt treat him fairly when he asked it to 
arrange buildings insurance for him. He thinks the policy  was mis-sold, as it wasnt  suitable 
for him.
background
Mr R bought a commercial property in early 2015. He planned to convert it into residential 
flats and sell these  on the open market.
In late 2015 Mr R talked  to BA about  insuring the property, because  hed got a loan to fund 
the development phase and the lender wanted the building insured before it would release 
the money. He told BA he needed the insurance by the close  of business the same day.
BA agreed to try to find a policy for Mr R. After  several phone  calls, most of which  were  BA 
collecting information about the building and Mr Rs development  plans, BA said it had found 
an insurer that was willing to quote  for what Mr R wanted.
BA provided Mr R with a quote and policy details, which Mr R sent to his solicitor, who was 
to check it provided the level of cover required by the lender.
The policy was set up and paid for.
Some time later the property was damaged, and the insurer noted it hadnt had a completed 
proposal form from Mr R. When  that was provided  the insurer said it wouldnt  have  insured 
Mr R knowing  all the facts it now had. It didnt  consider his claim.
Mr R complained to BA about this and the part it had played when setting up the policy. The 
complaint was referred to this service,  and I issued a final decision about the complaint in 
2018. I said in that decision that I hadnt looked at whether BA had sold Mr R a policy that 
met his needs, or how the sale was conducted. Thats  because  it wasnt  part of his original 
complaint.
Mr R subsequently  complained to BA about  the sale. BA said it had provided  the policy on a 
non-advised basis, and it was for Mr R to check whether it was suitable for him. 
Mr R was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint  to us.
Mr Rs told us (via his representative) that he was an inexperienced buyer of property 
insurance and BA had a duty of care towards him when selling the policy. He says that 
wasnt met, and he relied upon BA finding  him a policy that met his needs as he described 
them. He says that this didnt happen, and hes lost a lot of money because of this. He wants  
BA to take responsibility  at least in part  for this.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He listened to the phone  calls 
between Mr R and BA and noted  that Mr R was asking for the minimum level of insurance he 
needed to satisfy the lender. He thought  BA had provided a policy that met these  needs   
and that Mr Rs own solicitor had also looked at it (and not raised  any queries about its 
suitability).
Ref: DRN16446612Mr R says his solicitor  only looked  at the policy to check it met the lenders requirements  
he wasnt checking it for suitability. He remains  convinced BA didnt sell him the sort of policy  
he needed and asked for.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr R, but Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The crux of the complaint is that BA didnt take the care it should have when it sold Mr R the 
policy. He says whether  BA recommended  the policy or not, it had a duty of care towards 
him, as hes inexperienced  when it comes to buying this sort of insurance. Mr R thinks  BA 
should have explained the various  exclusions and limitations of the policy.  Mr R says BA 
didnt do that, and he was sold an unsuitable  policy.
The paperwork BA sent to Mr R said it hadnt  recommended the policy   so it hadnt checked  
it was suitable  for him. Ive looked  at the paperwork, and there is a section headed 
Important information.  Immediately under  that is an explanation about how the policy  was 
sold  that is on a non-advised basis. It goes on to say Mr R must check it meets his needs.  I 
think this would have  been clear to Mr R when  reading the papers. 
Mr R says he relies  on others to take care of this sort of administration  and in this case  he 
relied on BA because of his lack of knowledge  in this area. Im not persuaded by that 
argument. This was significant commitment for Mr R. He was borrowing money and the 
insurance was part of that. So I think it reasonable for him to read the paperwork he was 
sent and ask questions if he didnt understand anything.  
Ive also listened  to the phone calls between  Mr R and BA over the course of the day when 
he was trying to arrange cover. Theres no suggestion in any of those conversations Mr R is 
inexperienced in buying insurance. He didnt tell BA this in any of the calls I listened to. In 
fact he told BA hed been developing properties for 15-20  years. That would suggest  he had 
some knowledge  of this type of insurance, as hed likely have  had to buy it for previous  
developments. BA checked various  points  with him, including liability  insurance for his own 
workers and security locks, for example. There was no suggestion from Mr R that he didnt 
understand why he was being asked the questions.  
Mr R was also quite specific about the cover he wanted  the minimum that would satisfy his 
lender. He wanted cover for the building phase  only, and discussed ways  of getting a partial  
refund of his premiums  if the work was completed  before the policy,  which ran for 12 
months, expired.
However, BA should have  drawn Mr Rs attention to any limitations or exclusions in the 
policy if they were unusual or onerous. Thats things that are specific to this policy but might 
not be present  in others readily available at a similar  price. Ive looked at the policy and I 
cant see anything that is unusual or onerous.  Mr R says he wasnt told the individual  flats he 
was building wouldnt be fully  insured whilst they were empty. I havent seen anything  that 
suggests the cover Mr R bought was lowered for unoccupied flats during the building  
Ref: DRN16446613process, so long as Mr R complied with some security requirements. He discussed  those 
with BA and said he was happy  to comply with them.
I explained in my previous decision why the policy  didnt  cover the sort of damage Mr R later 
claimed for. In summary, it was because  the damage was caused either by changes that had 
been made to a structure which had weakened  it and/or age and wear  and tear. Those are 
exclusions common across the insurance industry.  I wouldnt expect  BA to emphasis these 
exclusions for that reason  because they arent  particularly onerous compared  to exclusions 
in other  similar  policies.
Mr R also says he wasnt told the property  wouldnt be satisfactorily insured after the flats 
were completed and sold. Theres nothing in the policy that suggests  cover lessens if flats 
are occupied during  the lifetime of the policy. It was also clear  from the phone  calls I listened 
to that Mr R only wanted this policy for as long as building  work continued, which  he thought  
might be about six months. I wouldnt expect  BA to provide information on longer term 
insurance unless  it knew  Mr R wanted  this.
Ive also noted  that BA told Mr R that there  was only one insurer prepared  to provide a quote  
for him unless hed already changed the locks  in the building to approved versions.  Nor did 
any other insurer seem willing to provide a rebate on premiums if the policy was cancelled 
before the 12 months expired. So it doesnt look to me as though Mr R could  have shopped 
around for a better deal if BA had provided more  information. 
Overall, I dont  think BA did much wrong  during the sale. But even  if BA had made  mistakes  
during the sale (and Im not saying it did), I cant see that this would have made  a difference  
to Mr Rs decision to buy the policy.
Mr R says a subsequent policy sold to him by BA (after the first one was cancelled) appears 
to provide better cover. I dont know if thats the case or not. But this decision is only about  
the sale of the policy  he bought in late 2015, and what  happened then. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1644661