K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed a joint account she held with her late 
husband even  though  she didnt  notify  it of her husbands death or provide a death 
certificate. As a result of the account being closed direct debits and standing  orders  were 
returned unpaid  and Mrs K had to reinstate them causing  her further stress and 
inconvenience.
background 
Mrs K told us that she never notified Barclays that her husband had died and she didnt 
provide it with a copy of the death  certificate  either so she cant  understand why 
amendments were  made to a joint account in hers and her late husbands name.
When she complained  to Barclays, her complaint was upheld.  In its final response letter  it 
said that when  its bereavement team tried to change the joint account to a sole account,  it 
closed the account in error. It apologised and offered  £240  compensation. It reinstated the 
account, confirmed  the direct  debits were active but it noticed some direct  debits  had been  
returned unpaid  so it suggested that Mrs K should  contact the companies involved  to set up 
new direct  debits.
Unhappy  with Barclays  response  Mrs K brought  her complaint  to our service.  Our 
investigator didnt  think  Barclays had treated Mrs K very well at this difficult time. She 
recommended that Barclays should increase its compensation from £240 to £500  to reflect  
the added  stress  of Mrs K having  to contact  the companies  with whom  she had direct  
debits  to set them  up again  so soon  after losing  her husband.  She also recommended that 
if Barclays actions had had an impact on Mrs Ks credit file, then these entries should be 
removed.
The investigator explained that Barclays hadnt been  able to provide its bereavement  notes 
so she was unable  to confirm if a death certificate  was provided at the time.  Mrs K was 
concerned that Barclays had dealt with their account  differently due to the type of account 
they held but our investigator thought that Barclays bereavement procedures would be the 
same for all accounts.
Mrs K disagrees with the amount  of compensation suggested by the investigator. She thinks 
shes been badly  treated  including for the reasons Ive summarised  below.
she has no recollection of Barclays paying her any compensation.
she says the account  was closed and reopened before she informed  Barclays  of 
her husband's death. She says she informed Barclaycard of her husbands death but 
she didnt have  a death certificate  at this time and shes  concerned that confidential 
information may have  been disclosed between Barclays  and Barclaycard.
the first she knew about the change to her joint account was a request for an unpaid 
standing order so she went  to her local branch to find out what was going on.
her husband managed their financial affairs so it was stressful having to set up the 
standing orders and direct debits when this due to Barclays mistake.
Our investigator responded to Mrs Ks concerns and agreed that Mrs K hadnt  been treated 
by Barclays as she would have expected. She recognised  that Mrs K had to correct  
Barclays error by contacting the companies  concerned to reinstate the direct  debits and 
standing orders and this is why she had asked Barclays  to increase the compensation.
Ref: DRN15556602Mrs K remains unhappy with the investigators  view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly  like to pass on my condolences to Mrs K. Due to the particular nature of the joint 
account Mr and Mrs K held with Barclays-  which are known to the parties but which I wont 
elaborate on here - I can understand why Mrs K feels particularly hurt that changes were  
made to the joint account even though she says never informed Barclays  of her husbands 
death and neither did she provide a death certificate. She remembers notifying Barclaycard 
of her husbands death and she thinks confidential  information may have been shared within 
Barclays.
As upset  as Mrs K is by this I must explain at the outset that I cant look into these her 
concerns about  whether or not confidential information has been shared between  
Barclaycard and Barclays. I say this because I cant see that Mrs K raised this as part of her 
original complaint to Barclays. As this is a new point,  Mrs K will need to raise  this with 
Barclays first and give it the chance  to respond  if she remains  concerned about this.
Barclays hasnt been able to access its bereavement notes to show whether or not it had a 
copy of the death  certificate at the time and, if so, who provided it. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mrs K because shed clearly like to understand how Barclays  was able to 
make changes to the joint account  when she didnt notify it of her husbands death or provide 
a death certificate.
I dont have any reason  to doubt that Mrs K never provided a copy of the death  certificate  at 
the time.  And Barclays  hasnt been  able to provide any information to show  Mrs K provided a 
copy of the death  certificate at the time.  Barclays provided an internal note to show it was 
notified of Mr Ks death on 27 February  2019. However, the note doesnt  help because  it 
doesnt show who made this notification.
Based on the limited  information available to me, I cant  conclusively say who notified  
Barclays of Mr Ks death and neither can I say whether or not Barclays had a copy  of the 
death certificate at the time and, if so, who provided it. I realise this will be disappointing for 
Mrs K because this is clearly and understandably very important to her. But although its 
clearly important for Mrs K Id like to reassure her that I dont think I need  to dwell on this in 
order to reach a fair decision. Ill explain why.
On the death of one joint account  holder the account  automatically  becomes the property  of 
the survivor whether or not a bank  is provided  with a copy  of the death certificate. But here, 
Barclays accepts that it closed the joint account  in error when it shouldnt have done  so. I 
dont think Barclays treated her very well here but when things go wrong, as they did here,  
we look at the impact  the mistake has had and look at what  needs to be done to put things  
right.
Im not aware that Mrs K has suffered any direct  financial losses due to Barclays mistake.  I 
say this because  the statements Ive seen  show that the direct  debits  were  reinstated  
quickly, the relevant  companies were paid  albeit later than might  historically  have been the 
case and Im not aware of any recurrent problems.
Ref: DRN15556603If Barclays error has resulted in payees reporting late payments to credit reference  agencies 
then Barclays should contact credit reference agencies  and ask for any late payment 
markers or adverse data to be removed. If its not possible for Barclays  to correct entries 
made by third parties  on Mrs Ks credit file, then it should write to any of the payees  
concerned to explain that Mrs K wasnt at fault for the missed/late payments.
Im in no doubt that it will have been  very stressful and inconvenient for Mrs K to have to 
contact the direct debit  recipients to put in place new direct debits so soon after her husband 
had passed away  at an already stressful and upsetting time and in circumstances where her 
husband had always dealt with their financial affairs. I therefore  dont think the £240 
compensation offered by Barclays sufficiently reflects  the trouble and distress she was put to 
as a result  of its error.
It can be hard to put a value on the non-financial impact of a mistake. I appreciate the 
reasons why Mrs K feels let down by Barclays  particularly in light of the nature of the 
account they held with Barclays. Im sympathetic to the position Mrs K found herself in but I 
can see that Barclays has apologised  for the mistake. Barclays  didnt treat Mrs K as it should  
have done but I agree  that the £500  recommended  by the investigator  is fair and reasonable 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  to her as a result of Barclays  mistake.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  this complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to:-
pay to Mrs K £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to her save insofar as it 
has already paid any part of this award.
remove any negative information  about any of the returned direct debits and/or 
standing orders as a result of Barclays mistake  in closing  the account from Mrs Ks 
credit file. If it isnt possible for Barclays to ask credit reference agencies  to update 
late payment/missed payment information  recorded  by third parties on Mrs Ks credit  
file then I direct that if Mrs K requests, it should  write to any of the payees concerned  
to explain that Mrs K wasnt at fault for the missed/late payments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1555660