K820x#14complaint
Mr P  on behalf of Company S  complains that certain underwriters at the Society of 
Lloyds (the underwriters) have unfairly  declined his public liability insurance claim.
background
Company S holds  a public liability policy with the underwriters. Its business entails putting on 
events for participants to play a game in an arena with Nerf guns  which fire soft missiles at 
other participants. 
On 21 January 2017 a child participant  was injured five minutes into his session  after 
climbing some unsecured  oil drums  which fell on top of him. The incident  was logged  and a 
liability claim was subsequently made  against Company S by the relatives of the injured 
child. 
Mr P submitted a claim under his public liability policy,  but it was declined by the 
underwriters due to it being  excluded by the policy terms  and conditions.  Mr P complained  
as he felt the underwriters decision was unfair.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint, as he considered  that the exclusion had been 
applied fairly  and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr P disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated  to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
The exclusion applicable to Mr Ps public liability policy states:
It is understood and agreed that this Policy excludes Injury caused by or to any 
participant whilst partaking  in any sporting activity training and or practice and or 
competition.
The underwriters declined  Company Ss claim because the child was injured while partaking 
in the Nerf-gun game, and so deemed the claim to be excluded by the above  clause.  
However, Mr P states that Nerf games do not constitute sporting activities, training, practice 
or competition and submits that the claim has been declined unfairly.
The child was injured  while partaking in the 3:30pm  slot with nine other participants.  The 
nature of the activity/game involves participants  firing missiles at each other and navigating  
around obstacles. I appreciate that a nerf-gun  game may not be widely  recognised as a 
sport per se but it is nonetheless in and of its nature akin to a sporting activity, which 
requires skill in operating the equipment, and which has a seemingly  competitive element  
(i.e. firing at other participants while avoiding being shot at yourself).  So Im satisfied that the 
game can reasonably  be considered as a sporting  activity, or at least  a competition 
between the participants such that it is caught by the policy  exclusion.
Mr P says that the policy was taken out purely to cover  against the risk of participants being 
injured during the games. But I understand the underwriters would only offer the policy with 
Ref: DRN16307332the above exclusion because Company S was a new business and had no insurance history. 
And given  that it was not the underwriters who sold the policy  to Mr P, they cannot be held 
responsible if he is now claiming he was unaware  of the exclusion  and I understand a 
separate complaint is being pursued against  the broker  that sold the policy  in that regard. 
In this decision, however, I can only consider whether the underwriters have declined the 
claim fairly in reliance on the policy exclusion.  And for the reasons set out above, I do not 
think they have  acted unreasonably by doing so, and I will not be asking them to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P  on behalf of 
Company S  to accept or reject my decision before  29 November 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1630733