K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W has complained that J D Williams & Company Limited (trading as Simply Be) 
irresponsibly provided her with a catalogue shopping account. Shes said that she lost her 
job as a result of ill-health  and had a number of financial issues in 2015 to 2016 as a result.  
But Simply Be kept increasing her credit limit without doing any checks  and her having a 
number of late payments.
Background
Simply Be provided Mrs W with a catalogue  shopping  account,  with an initial  credit  limit of 
£125, in November 2015. The information  provided in Simply Bes file indicates that Mrs W 
credit limit was increased to the following amounts on the following occasions:
Date Amount of additional credit New limit
February 2016 £75.00 £200.00
March 2016 £100.00 £300.00
April 2016 £200.00 £500.00
May 2016 £200.00 £700.00
July 2016 £300.00 £1,000.00
October 2016 £250.00 £1,250.00
May 2017 £650.00 £1,900.00
January 2018 £350.00 £2,250.00
January 2019 £250.00 £2,500.00
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Ws complaint. She didnt think that Simply Be had 
done anything  wrong when initially opening  Mrs Ws account or when it increased her credit 
limit in February 2016 and March 2016.  But she thought that Simply Be shouldnt have 
increased the credit limit on Mrs Ws account from April 2016  onwards. So she partially  
upheld the complaint. Simply Be disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
The regulations  in place at the time of the respective lending  decisions
 
Simply Be provided Mrs W with her catalogue  shopping account   in November 2015  -  by 
the time regulation of Consumer Credit  providers passed to the Financial Conduct  Authority  
(FCA). The relevant regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer  
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC)  section of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer borrowing of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Mrs Ws catalogue  shopping account), to make payments within  a 
reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
Ref: DRN16191642The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In addition section  6 of CONC covers  a lenders post-contractual obligations. CONC 6.7.2  R 
states:
A firm must monitor a customer's  repayment  record and take appropriate action  where there 
are signs  of actual or possible  repayment  difficulties.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
Having considered everything  provided, I think that there are three overarching questions  
that I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of Mrs Ws complaint. These questions are:    
Did Simply Be carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that  
Mrs W would  be able to repay what she borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of 
each lending  decision (in other  words - when initially providing the account and then 
each time it increased the credit limit)?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  more likely than not 
have shown?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each credit limit increase, was 
there a point where Simply Be ought  reasonably to have realised it was increasing        
Mrs Ws indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have  provided further  credit?
Did Simply Be act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these  questions in turn.
Did Simply Be carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mrs W 
would be able to repay what she borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each lending 
decision?
Ref: DRN16191643The rules  and regulations throughout Simply Bes lending relationship with Mrs W required  it 
to carry out a reasonable and proportionate  assessment of whether she could  afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Simply Be had to think  about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs W. 
In practice this meant that Simply Be had to ensure that making  the payments to the credit  
wouldnt cause Mrs W undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for Simply Be to simply think about the likelihood of it getting  its money  back, it had 
to consider the impact of any repayments  on Mrs W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Simply Be did what  it needed to before  initially 
agreeing to Mrs Ws credit card and each  time it increased her credit  limit.
 
Simply Be says that it relied on information  from a Credit Reference Agency before initially  
agreeing to provide Mrs W with an account  and subsequently  increasing  her credit limit. But 
it hasnt provided us with a reasonable output  of information such  that I can understand what  
it was at the respective times or described what it thinks its checks  demonstrated  about        
Mrs Ws circumstances at the respective  times. Indeed it seems to me that Simply Be 
expects this service to accept all of Mrs Ws limit increases were  affordable  because  its 
systems approved them. Considering Simply Be says it gathered sufficient  information  to 
inform its lending decisions, its extremely disappointing Simply Be hasnt provided  it to me. 
This service cannot and will not look for evidence and construct an argument  to support 
Simply Bes defence of Mrs Ws complaint.  If Simply Be cant provide the information it relied 
on and describe why this information showed it was fair and reasonable to initially lend to 
Mrs W and then increase her credit limit on each occasion, then I cant  and wont reach the 
conclusion that its checks before  providing this lending were proportionate.  
Ref: DRN16191644Without any explanation from Simply Be on this matter, I cant  take it as read that its lending  
decisions were fair. In these circumstances,  I find that Simply Be didnt carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks before initially providing  Mrs W with her catalogue shopping 
account and any of the subsequent credit  limit increases. 
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks more likely than not have shown that Mrs W 
would have been able to repay what she owed within  a reasonable period of time when she 
was provided with her account and each time her credit limit increased? 
Simply Bes initial decision to provide Mrs W with a catalogue shopping account with a credit 
limit of £125  and then increase the limit to £200  and £300
Mrs W was given a credit facility where  there was an expectation that shed repay what she 
borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. CONC doesnt  set out 
what a reasonable  period of time is. So I think its important to note that a reasonable period 
of time will always  be dependent on the circumstances of the individual  case.  
Mrs W has provided us with a copy of her credit  file. And having looked at it, I cant see 
anything too concerning  in the period  leading up to November 2015 and running through  to 
February 2016 - which leads me to think  that it was more likely than not Mrs W would have 
been unable  to repay £125, £200  and £300  within a reasonable period of time. So I dont 
think that it was unfair for Simply Be to initially provide Mrs W with a catalogue shopping 
account that had a £125 limit or increase the credit  limit to £200 and £300.    
the third, fourth and fifth credit limit increases in April 2016, May 2016  and July 2016
Simply Be offered  Mrs W a credit  limit increase to £500 in April 2016. In my view,  this was a 
significant increase,  as Simply Be was almost  doubling Mrs Ws limit, and Simply Be needed  
to ensure Mrs W could sustainably repay a balance of £500 within a reasonable period of 
time. Simply  Bes correspondence appears to suggest that its decision to increase the credit 
limit on Mrs Ws account was based  on her account  management. I have significant  
concerns with the principle of this approach. 
It is not clear  to me why a borrower who is able to successfully manage a given credit  limit 
can then automatically  be deemed,  without further checks, to be able to successfully 
manage a higher limit. It seems to me that this logic would likely lead to continually  
increasing limits, unless or until problems arise. 
In any event, the information I have leads me to think that its more  likely than not that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would not have shown that Mrs W wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably  repay any additional  within a reasonable  period of time. Mrs W was on 
low income and almost all of it was taken up by her existing commitments. 
Furthermore Mrs W bank  statements also show that she was always overdrawn, which 
shows me that there was little prospect of her being able to make  the payments to her 
account without  borrowing  further or suffering financial difficulty. 
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that proportionate checks  would more  likely than not 
have shown that Mrs W would be unable to sustainably repay the additional credit offered 
when her credit limit was increased in April 2016, May 2016 and July 2016.  So I find that 
Simply Be unfairly increased  Mrs Ws credit  limit at these times.
Ref: DRN16191645Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each credit limit increase, was there  a 
point where Simply Be ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ws 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt have 
provided further credit?
Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance  referred to earlier  in this decision - makes 
it clear that a lender shouldnt continue offering credit where  the borrowing is unsustainable  
or otherwise harmful and/or where  its apparent the borrower may be experiencing financial 
difficulties. So in addition  to assessing the circumstances behind  each individual  lending  
decision, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at what  unfolded during the course  of 
Mrs Ws account history  with Simply  Be  especially how it was managed. 
Ive already explained why I think reasonable and proportionate affordability checks werent 
completed by Simply  Be. And why based  on the evidence on file, Im satisfied proportionate 
checks would have  shown  that the April 2016, May 2016 and July 2016 limit increases when 
considered individually were unaffordable.  But Im also concerned  with the direction of travel 
of the account  after the first limit increase. I think that there  were  some clear warning signs 
that Simply Be ought to have been alert to regarding Mrs Ws account history.  
In my view, there was an emerging pattern of Mrs W only making the minimum payments 
each month  and that this was coupled with Mrs W utilising a proportion  of the available funds 
straight after the limit was increased. I think that this worsened in the period after July 2016.  
The graph below shows Mrs Ws credit  limit, her outstanding balance and the payments she 
made on a monthly  basis throughout the period that she had the account.  
This graph illustrates  in a much clearer way than words  alone ever could - just how        
Mrs Ws account was being managed  after each  limit increase. It clearly shows that Mrs W 
utilised a significant proportion of the funds available after a limit increase took effect on 
almost every  occasion. The graph also shows that the monthly payment made never  
increased in proportion with the limit increases either. So Mrs W never  made any real 
inroads into what she owed Simply Be and in fact the opposite happened as the amount  
Mrs W owed kept increasing until she eventually defaulted on the account. 
In my view, this showed that Mrs W may well have been struggling financially (in fact her 
bank statements show that this actually was the case) and, at the very least, it was a clear 
indication that she wasnt managing her account  well. Simply Be will also be aware it was 
required to monitor Mrs Ws repayment  record and offering assistance where it appeared 
that she might have been experiencing  financial  difficulty.
I dont think that increasing  Mrs Ws credit limit by 500%  in the period between October 
2016 and January 2019 and therefore  offering substantially more  credit - when Mrs W was 
already struggling  to manage her existing debt was offering  assistance.  In my view, Simply 
Be increasing Mrs Ws credit limit in this way and in these circumstances was adding to any 
potential financial difficulty rather than offering assistance. 
I think that Simply Be increasing Mrs Ws credit limit in this way - while she was 
demonstrating an inability  to manage her existing debt - unfairly  increased  and prolonged 
her indebtedness. I think Simply Be ought  fairly and reasonably to have realised Mrs Ws 
existing debt may well have become a problem and taken steps other than continuing to 
provide more and more  credit. Instead,  its actions meant Mrs W paid Simply Be increasing 
Ref: DRN16191646amounts of interest  for the privilege of it allowing her to delay dealing with her unsustainable 
debt.
Given all of Simply  Bes obligations  and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into 
account the circumstances and everything Ive covered  in this section, I find that Simply Be 
ought fairly and reasonably to have  realised it was increasing Mrs Ws indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable and otherwise  harmful at a time when it ought reasonably to 
have realised that she was experiencing financial difficulty. So Simply Be shouldnt  have 
provided any of the credit  limit increases from October 2016 either.
Did Simply Be act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Simply Be acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some 
other way.  
So I find that Simply Be didnt act unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mrs W in some other 
way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on pages 
two and three of this decision, I find that:
Simply Be didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs W to satisfy 
itself that she was able to sustainably repay  what she owed when it initially  provided 
her with her account and any of the subsequent credit  limit increases offered;
reasonable and proportionate checks would not more likely than not have shown   
Mrs W was unable to sustainably repay what she owed  within a reasonable period of 
time when her account was initially opened and when  she was provided with her first 
two credit  limit increases in February 2016  and March  2016;
Simply Be ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the credit limit increases 
after March  2016  (in other words the ones from April 2016 onwards) were  
unsustainable and otherwise harmful for Mrs W and were unfairly and excessively 
increasing her overall indebtedness;  
Simply Be didnt act unfairly or unreasonably  towards Mrs W in some other way.
The above  findings leave me reaching  the overall conclusion that Simply Be unfairly  and 
unreasonably provided  Mrs W with the credit limit increases from April 2016 onwards.
Did Mrs W lose out as a result  of Simply Bes shortcomings in relation to her account?
As Mrs W had to pay a significant amount of interest and charges as a result of her credit 
limit unfairly being increased from April 2016  onwards, I think that she lost out because  of 
what Simply Be did wrong. So Simply Be should put things  right.   
Ref: DRN16191647fair compensation  what  Simply Be should do to put things right  for Mrs W
Ive given a lot of careful thought to what fair compensation should look like in this case. 
I want to start by saying  that in most cases,  where credit has been provided when it 
shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable for the lender to refund any interest and 
charges paid by the borrower (if they were) plus interest. And the borrower would be 
expected to repay any remaining amount of the funds they were given. So ordinarily Id 
expect Mrs W to pay back the funds she was lent  when she used her account  and any 
interest on the credit that was fairly provided  in other words  the first £300. 
That said,  Im mindful of the particular circumstances of this case  and I dont  think  that a 
simple refund of the extra interest and charges (on the credit limits that shouldnt have been 
provided from April 2016) goes far enough.  Ive already said that I was especially concerned 
about the limit increases from October  2016 onwards as Simply Be ought reasonably to 
have realised that Mrs W was in financial difficulty.  
So Simply Be provided further funds and charged Mrs W for doing so at a time where it 
ought reasonably  to have been  exercising  forbearance And I think that this needs  to be 
reflected in how it should put things right by removing all the interest added to the account 
from October 2016 onwards  not just the extra  as a result of the additional limit increases. 
This means  that Simply  Be needs  to rework Mrs Ws account  and only add any interest due 
on the first £300 of Mrs Ws account balance (of course  any capital spend on the account  
can be included as this isnt being written  off) up until October 2016. From October 2016 
onwards the reworked balance should  remove the effect of all interest and charges  added.  
Should this reworking of Mrs Ws account  result  in her having  paid more than she would 
owe, any extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mrs W. 
Simply Be should also add interest, at 8% simple  per year, from the date any overpayment  
was made  to the date of settlement.
Finally, if this reworking of Mrs Ws account  results in her no longer owing Simply Be any 
money then Simply Be should also remove any adverse information recorded  on Mrs Ws 
credit file as a result of this account.
All of this means  that in order  to put things  right for Mrs W, Simply Be should:
rework Mrs Ws account  to ensure that interest  is only charged on the first £300.00 
Mrs W owed up until her October 2016  statement. No interest or charges should be 
applied to the account from the date of Mrs Ws October 2016 statements onwards; 
and
if the payments  Mrs W made  are enough to have cleared the reworked account 
balance, any extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments  and refunded to 
Mrs W; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if they were any, from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement 
Ref: DRN16191648if after all adjustments have been  made Mrs W no longer owes  Simply  Be any 
money then all adverse information regarding this account should be removed from 
her credit  file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Simply Be to take off tax from this interest. Simply Be 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
Finally Simply Be should arrange a suitable repayment  plan with Mrs W if an outstanding 
balance remains on the account after all adjustments have  been  made.  
My final decision
For the reasons  explained, Im partially upholding Mrs Ws complaint. and say that                
J D Williams & Company  Limited (trading as Simply Be) should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1619164