K821x#15complaint
Mr V has complained about how esure  Insurance Limited valued his car following a claim 
under his motor  insurance policy.
background
Last year, Mr Vs car was stolen from outside of his house. esure valued  Mr Vs car using 
three trade guides.  But as one of the guides was higher and out of line, they didnt  consider  
that one and instead averaged the values in the two other guides. As a result they offered 
Mr V £18,930 as their final settlement for the value  of his car.
Mr V complained to esure as he didnt think he could  replace his car for the amount they 
offered  he says his car was a rare model  and that it had added  extras. Mr V wants  esure to 
pay the retail price of the car so that he can buy a replacement  car of the same specification.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Vs concerns. She looked at four motor  valuation guides in 
order to see if esures  valuation seemed fair. The adjudicator said one of the four trade 
guides was unpersuasive  as it wasnt date specific  this was also the same  trade  guide  that 
esure said was an outlier with the other two trade guides they used. So the adjudicator  
thought it was fairer to average the values of the three trade guides. By doing this, she found 
the settlement  offered  by esure wasnt fair and asked them to pay an additional sum of £963. 
Esure agreed to pay what  the adjudicator recommended. But Mr V didnt agree. He 
explained that his car was very hard to replace  for the amount offered and he also said hes 
had to buy a lower specification car for a lot more money. He also doesnt think  its fair to not 
include the valuation  provided by the trade guide  that isnt date specific.  So the matter  has 
been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role isnt to decide the value  of Mr Vs car but it is to decide whether or not the approach  
esure have  taken to reach the valuation  is fair in all the circumstances. We look at whether 
esure have  applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued  the vehicle fairly. Under the 
terms of Mr Vs policy, esure have to pay him the market value of the car.
Market value is defined in Mr Vs policy as the amount you could reasonably  have 
expected to sell your vehicle for on the open market immediately before your accident or 
lossthis may not be the price you paid when you purchased  the car.
Its standard practice  for the industry to use trade  valuation guides to work  out the estimated 
market value of a car. And I dont  think  this is unreasonable. The valuations the guides give 
are based  on the advertised price and likely sales prices of similar  cars with similar age and 
mileage for sale at the time of loss. 
Ref: DRN11139872Ive had a look at the valuations and I think its fairer to take an average of all four motor  
trade guides rather than just the three guides.  I say this because  the Parkers  valuation isnt 
too dissimilar to the value returned by Cazana. I note esures  comment  that they dont think 
Parkers valuation should be used as its not dated. But Ive got no reason to believe the 
Parkers valuation provided by the business  (which  was also of a similar value returned when 
we used Parkers)  wasnt done by the engineer at the time they valued the car. Therefore, I 
dont think it would be fair to not take this valuation into consideration. 
The average of the four trade guides  is £20,623. So I think  esure should pay the difference 
of £1,693. esure should pay 8% simple  interest on any payment made from the date Mr V 
made the claim to the date of payment  made.
I appreciate Mr Vs comments that his car had a lot of added  extras  which he says increased 
the value of his car. When buying  a car at the time when its new,  added extras can be 
expensive. But the amount paid for these  doesnt mean a comparable increase  in the market 
value. And Im satisfied  the added extras have been considered in the trade guide 
valuations.
I note Mr Vs comment that esure have taken a different approach  on a similar claim for a 
different customer.  Im unable to comment on the approach esure  may have taken  in other  
cases. Ive only looked  at what esure have done  in Mr Vs case.
I can understand Mr Vs frustrations around  this claim  being recorded as a fault claim even 
though esure have  been unable to find his car. But unfortunately, where the claim cant be 
attributed to anyone  it will become a fault claim.  This is often  the approach all insurers take 
and not just esure. And because it has been  recorded as a fault claim,  this will have an affect 
on future motor insurance premiums.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I uphold this complaint  and I order esure 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr V:
£1,693 additional payment
8% simple interest on any money due to Mr V from the date he made his claim to the 
date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1113987