K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco  Bank, wont  refund to him 
the money that he paid for a car. His complaint is made against Tesco Bank under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
background
Mr H used his Tesco Bank credit card in October 2017 to pay £9,078 towards  the £21,994 
cost of a used car. He noticed some  problems with the car and took it to a manufacturers 
dealer for an inspection.  As a result of the inspection,  a fault with the clutch  pedal  and other 
issues were identified. Mr H complained to the dealer that had sold him the car and he then 
claimed a refund from Tesco  Bank  under section 75. He also said that the car had been 
misrepresented to him because hed been  told that it had only had one owner but another 
owner was registered  four days before he bought the car. Mr H wasnt  satisfied with Tesco 
Banks response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Mr H had 
the car inspected at the end of October  2017  and the inspection  report  says that the clutch  
was faulty. And he felt that it was more  than likely that Mr H did contact the dealer about 
returning the car within 30 days  due to the fault with the clutch.  So he recommended  that 
Tesco Bank should allow Mr H to give back the car and that it should: reimburse him for the 
total cost of the car, the cost of the report and the cost of the repairs  that were  carried  out on 
the clutch. But he didnt consider that the car had been misrepresented  to Mr H.
Tesco Bank has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that it hasn't been  provided  with any evidence to show  that the issues  with the car 
have been caused by any defects,  or that faults were present at the time of sale.  And it says 
that the customer's report states: clutch  pedal stiff, suspect worn pressure plate and was 
only noted as an advisory and not requiring urgent attention - so its more likely that it was a 
wear and tear issue. And it says that it doesnt  believe that theres clear evidence  to prove 
that theres been  a breach  of contract.
Mr H has accepted the investigators  recommendation.  But he says that he also paid £230 
for a buckled  wheel to be repaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Hs complaint about  Tesco  Bank, 
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the dealer 
and that Tesco Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im 
not determining  the outcome of Mr Hs claim under section 75 as only a court  would be able 
to do that.
Mr H bought a used car for £21,994  in October  2017 and he used his Tesco  Bank credit card 
to pay £9,078 of that amount. The cars  mileage at that time was 17,458. Mr H had some 
issues with the car and he paid £19.99  for it to be inspected by a manufacturers dealer at 
Ref: DRN15293882the end of that month. That dealer identified that the clutch pedal  stiff, suspect worn  
pressure plate and the cars mileage at that time was recorded as 18,938.  So Mr H had had 
the car for less than four weeks and had used it to drive for less than 1,500 miles.  
Mr H says that he contacted the dealer that had sold him the car and said that he wanted to 
return the car for a full refund because of the fault with the clutch  and other issues.  That 
dealer said that the car had passed  a health check before it was sold to Mr H so it wouldnt 
refund the money to him. Mr H paid £675 for the clutch to be replaced and he complained  to 
Tesco Bank. 
The manufacturers dealer had identified  an issue with the cars  clutch  and Mr H says that 
hed asked to reject the car within the first 30 days.  I consider it to be more likely than not 
that there  was an issue with the cars clutch when the car was sold to Mr H and that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time because of that issue.  Im not persuaded that the 
issue with the clutch was caused by fair wear  and tear. And I consider it to be more likely 
than not that Mr H had asked  to reject the car within the first 30 days  as he was entitled to 
do. 
I consider that to be a breach of contract by the dealer  that sold the car to Mr H for which  
Tesco Bank is jointly liable under  section  75. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances  for Tesco Bank to arrange for the car to be collected from Mr H, to 
rework his credit card account as if the payment of £9,078 hadnt been made in October 
2017 and to reimburse Mr H for the balance  of the cost of the car of £12,916 that he paid by 
other means  (with  interest).  And I consider that it should also reimburse  him for the cost of 
the inspection  report and the cost of the repairs  to the clutch (both with interest).
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show that the wheel was buckled  
when the car was supplied to Mr H  so I dont  consider that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require  Tesco  Bank to reimburse Mr H for the cost of the replacement wheel. Nor 
am I persuaded that theres enough  evidence in these circumstances to show  that the car 
was misrepresented to Mr H and, as I consider  that he can reject the car because  of the 
clutch fault, I havent considered in any detail the other issues about which hes complained. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I order  Tesco  
Personal Finance  plc, trading as Tesco Bank,  to:
1.Arrange for the car to be collected  from Mr H at no cost to him.
2.Rework Mr Hs credit card account as if the payment of £9,078 hadnt been  made  in 
October 2017, and - if that puts the account into credit - to pay interest  at an annual  
rate of 8% simple on the credit  balance for the periods that the account was in credit 
(and it should also refund the credit  balance to Mr H).
3.If Mr H has repaid  the £9,078 (or any part of it) to Tesco Bank  but doesnt have a 
credit balance,  to pay interest  on the amount that hes repaid at an annual rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment  until the date of settlement.
4.Pay £12,916 to Mr H to reimburse  him for the balance of the cost of the car.
5.Pay £19.99  to Mr H to reimburse  him for the cost of the inspection report.
Ref: DRN152938836.Pay £675 to Mr H to reimburse him for the cost of the clutch  repair.
7.Pay interest on the amounts at 4, 5 and 6 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Tesco Bank  to deduct  tax from the interest  payments 
referred to above.  Tesco  Bank must  give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1529388