K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited  (Omni)  has unfairly  declined  a claim 
he made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
Mr T purchased a hot tub from a retailer  that I will call B in June  2018.
The hot tub was ex-display and had been  discounted by B. The cash price of the hot tub was 
£3,440.
Mr T paid B a £344  deposit (10%)  and financed the balance of £3,096  by way of a fixed-sum  
loan agreement (agreement) with Omni.  Under  the terms of the agreement, and everything 
else being equal, Mr T undertook to make 1 monthly payment of £112.33 followed by 35 
monthly payments  of £112.30  making a total repayable (inclusive  of the £344 deposit) of 
£4,386.83.
Mr T says the hot tub was delivered  in July 2018  and arrived  damaged. He says he 
contacted B several times to arrange  for someone  to come and look at the damage,  but 
often no one showed up. Mr T says that after a number  of people had attempted to refit a 
side panel, he realised  that part of the hot tubs frame was bent.  He says the panel couldnt 
clip back in and wires were  hanging out which he thought  was a safety hazard. 
 
B didnt  agree there  were  any faults  with the hot tub and pointed out that it was heavily 
discounted because  it was ex-display, and that it made Mr T aware at the point of sale it had 
suffered from some  wear  and tear. Mr T wasnt happy and so contacted  Omni to raise a 
claim with it under section  75.
Omni didnt  uphold Mr Ts section 75 claim, but it did offer him £125.00  for delays in 
responding to him. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied  with Ts decision to not uphold his section 75 claim so referred  his 
complaint to our service for investigation.
The investigator assigned  Mr Ts complaint asked Omni to arrange an independent 
inspection of the hot tub, which was undertaken by a company that I will call S on 
12 August 2019.  An inspection report was then produced which said:
1. Our engineer managed to fit the side panel  properly and fit the corner  panel  on so it does 
not pop off
2. We do not believe  the hot tub is in anyway dangerous to the user. No electrical cables are 
located in this corner other than LED lighting to the corner. This would not harm anyone, 
however point 1 has rectified this
3. We do not believe  the hot tub has been  dropped but the framework is slightly  bent
Customer was not told about any defects with the hot tub. The tub looks to be ok to use and 
should not have any detrimental  issue to be used as it is now.
Ref: DRN18481642In September  2019 Mr T contacted the investigator to say that following the inspection  of the 
hot tub by S, it had stopped working completely.
Mr Ts complaint was considered by the investigator who concluded that Omni had treated 
him fairly. He also concluded that Mr Ts September 2019 submission that the hot tub had 
stopped working  completely after it had been inspected  (and repaired) by S needed  to be 
raised as a new complaint with Omni, which Mr T did.
Omni asked  S for its comments. It explained that the repair to fix the panel wouldnt have 
had any impact on the overall  working  of the hot tub and it had been working fine when it left. 
So, Omni didnt  agree  that S had caused the hot tub to stop working. Mr T didnt accept 
Omnis response and so referred this second  complaint to our service.
This second complaint was assigned to a different investigator who concluded that because  
Mr Ts second  complaint  was so closely linked to his first it made sense for both to be looked 
at as one, by her, and under this complaint reference.
The new investigator  concluded that Omni had treated Mr T fairly.  She explained that she 
didnt think there was enough  evidence  to say the hot tub was not of satisfactory quality 
when it was sold to Mr T. And she didnt  think that there was sufficient evidence to conclude 
that any problems  Mr T was now experiencing with the hot tub were as a result of the 
engineer Omni appointed. But she did explain to Mr T that he could  arrange  his own report if 
he disagreed with her findings.
Omni accepted the investigators assessment, but Mr T didnt. He said the hot tub was faulty 
and Omni  should  do something to put that right. Mr T said he wasnt  going  to arrange an 
independent report  himself and that in his view S was closely  linked to B meaning its 
inspection and report wasnt  truly independent.  
Because Mr T didnt  accept the assessment the complaint has been passed to me for review 
and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. They  have both 
provided detailed  submissions in support of their respective views which  I can confirm Ive 
read and considered in their entirety.  However,  I trust the parties will not take the fact that 
my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed  in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them.
The agreement in this case is a fixed sum loan agreement. As such, this service is
able to consider  complaints relating to it. Mr T raised a claim under section 75. In certain 
circumstances, section  75 gives a consumer (Mr T) an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services (B), or the provider of the credit (Omni) if there's been a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier  (B).
Ref: DRN18481643My role isnt to decide whether  or not section 75 applies  here.  Rather, Im required to decide 
what, if anything,  Omni should do to resolve  this complaint. When deciding  whats  fair and 
reasonable, Im required to take into account  (amongst  other  things) any relevant  law. 
Relevant law here includes section 75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA says that under  a contract to supply  goods, there is an implied  term that "the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory". The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account 
any description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition  and other
things like their fitness for purpose,  appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects,
safety, and durability. 
So, if I thought  the hot tub supplied to Mr T wasnt of satisfactory quality then I think  Omni  
would need to do something  to put that right. 
In this case B supplied  Mr T with a hot tub that was an ex-display model and discounted  as a 
result. So, I think a reasonable person would expect that it would  have suffered from some  
wear and tear and/or some minor  cosmetic  damage.  But that key components  and 
functionality of the hot tub worked  as they should. 
Mr T says that the hot tub was damaged when delivered, including scratches to it and an 
issue with the side panel not fitting correctly. 
The photos  Mr Ts provided do show some scratches on the hot tub. But I cant tell for sure 
whether these were  caused during delivery  or while the hot tub was on display. And as I 
explained above, I think its reasonable to expect that there  might  be some minor  cosmetic 
damage when  purchasing  and ex-display model. 
I can see that B did attempt to fix the issue regarding the side panel but couldnt do so to 
Mr Ts satisfaction.  The engineer has confirmed the framework for the hot tub was slightly 
bent but was ultimately able to repair the panel.   
So, I accept there were issues with the hot tub at first, but I think these have now been put 
right and I dont think Omni  should be required to anything further in this respect.
Ive also thought about what  Mr T has said about the hot tub no longer working. Mr T made 
this service aware of his concerns  that (in his view) S had broken the hot tub in 
September 2019. 
The video hes provided does appear  to show that the hot tub wont  switch on but that 
doesnt explain whats wrong with it, or show that the hot-tub wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was sold to Mr T. The independent engineer has explained that the hot tub was 
working when he left and if it wasnt, I think its likely Mr T would have let us know  straight 
away. 
So, I find that the issues Mr T is now experiencing with the hot tub were not as a result  of 
anything S did or failed  to do. 
Ref: DRN18481644my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1848164