K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain  on their own behalf and as executors of the estate of Mr P1 that 
Barclays Bank Plc has failed to provide  a copy of the trust deed  in relation to the investment 
bond that was taken  out by Mrs P and Mr P1.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In short I wasnt satisfied that Barclays had done anything  wrong  
because it wasnt able to provide a copy of the trust deed. I said that on the evidence  I had 
seen it was clear Barclays didnt have a copy of the trust deed but couldnt say whether this 
was because it had never kept a copy or because it had lost this. 
I said that I had seen no persuasive  evidence that Barclays  had agreed  to be custodians  of 
the trust deed  or were  otherwise obliged  to keep a copy for the benefit  of Mrs P or Mr P1 or 
the trustees  so Barclays had done  nothing wrong  because it was unable  to provide a copy of 
the trust deed.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing  further information. Barclays  said it had 
nothing further  to add. Mr P telephoned  and said that the £250  award  for 10 years of neglect 
by Barclays wasnt sufficient.  He  also initially stated that he had obtained a copy of the trust 
deed from the administrator of the bond  so knew Barclays wasnt  being  truthful  when it said 
it contacted the administrator who had stated  it didnt  have a copy of the trust deed. But he 
then said he had only obtained copy of the signature page.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have been provided with no information  that would  lead me to change the findings in my 
provisional decision.
I note what Mr P has said in response to my provisional decision.  It should  be clear  to him 
from what I have already said that I am only considering whether Barclays  did anything  
wrong because  it didnt provide a copy of the trust deed.  
I am not considering the suitability of the original  advice to invest in the bond or the 
management of it over the past 10 years. And the award of £250 is only in relation to 
Barclays not keeping  Mr P updated  as to its enquiries about the trust deed  and nothing else.
Mr P suggested he had already obtained a copy of the trust deed from the administrator 
before some  time ago but then said he only has a copy of the signature page.  This doesnt 
change any of my findings.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Ref: DRN16654722Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16654723COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain  on their own behalf and as executors of the estate of Mr P1 that Barclays 
Bank Plc has failed to provide a copy of the trust deed in relation to the investment bond that was 
taken out by Mrs P and Mr P1.
background 
In 2006 Mrs P and Mr P1 were advised  to invest just short of £517,000  in an offshore investment 
bond  the AXA Isle of Man Estate Planning  Bond to help mitigate their potential  Inheritance tax 
(IHT) liability. The bond  was managed by Gerrard Investment  Management Limited (GIML)  a 
subsidiary of Barclays  under a discretionary management agreement.
Mr P has previously complained to Barclays about the suitability of the bond and to GIML as to its 
management of the bond. Both these complaints were referred to us and in each case  a final decision 
was given  by an ombudsman. With regard  to the complaint about suitability the ombudsman didnt  
think the bond  was unsuitable and in the case of GIML the ombudsman didnt think the business  had 
done anything wrong with regard to the management of the bond.
Mr P continued to correspond with Barclays with regard  to the bond and this included a request for it 
to provide a copy of the trust deed. Barclays didnt provide this and he then complained  to us about its 
failure to provide a copy of the deed.
Mr P also complained to the Isle of Man Financial Ombudsman Scheme about  the current 
administrator of the bond, originally AXA Isle of Man but rebranded as Utmost  Wealth Solutions.  This 
was because he was unhappy that it required the trustees to sign a declaration  giving an indemnity 
with regard  to the appointment of a new external manager for the bond.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and said the only issue he was dealing with was in 
relation to Barclays not providing a copy  of the trust deed for the investment bond. He said he 
wouldnt comment on the suitability  of the bond and management of it given we had already dealt with 
complaints about those  issues. 
The investigator said there  remained questions about the establishment of the trust and it is unclear  
what Barclayss responsibilities may have been at the time. The investigator thought that Barclays  
offer of £250 for not having kept Mr P updated about its enquiries into the whereabouts of the trust 
deed was reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree  and provided an email from the administrator stating that it hadnt got any record 
that Barclays had contacted it about the trust deed  as it said it had done - and the only record of a 
query about this was from Mr P the previous  year when he had asked for a copy of the trust deed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint form that Mr P and Mrs P completed when referring their complaint to our service  made 
specific reference to Barclays not providing  a copy of the trust deed. Mr P has attempted  to tie this in 
to the complaints that were previously made about the suitability of the bond and its management. As 
a final decision has already been made about the suitability of the bond and this isnt something I am 
going to consider in this complaint. But I think it is worth commenting briefly on this so that the 
position is clear to Mr P and Mrs P.
Ref: DRN16654724If there  was an issue about whether a trust had actually been set up in 2006 then the existence of the 
trust deed couldve  been  relevant to the issue about suitability. This is because if there was no trust 
then the objective of mitigating the potential IHT liability wouldnt have been met as the money in the 
bond wouldve  remained  in Mrs Ps and Mr P1s estate. 
But no one has suggested there isnt a trust, and all parties have worked on the basis that there is - I 
note that Utmost refused  to surrender the bond on the death of Mr P1 because  of the trust that was in 
place. 
I also think  the nature  of the bond itself shows that a trust was created when Mrs P and Mr P1 took 
out the bond.  The key facts document I have seen shows the bond is a combination of an offshore 
single premium capital redemption bond and a trust. In other words the fact that the bond was set up 
in the first place indicates there is a trust as this is part of the product.
Given I dont think there is an issue about the existence of a trust, I dont think the lack of a trust deed 
itself has any relevance to suitability and isnt a document  that needed to be considered  by the 
ombudsman before  deciding if the bond was suitable.
Although this complaint is about Barclays not GIML I also think it is worth pointing out that the same 
applies to the management  of the bond by GIML.  It didnt  need  to keep a copy  of the trust deed to 
manage the investments  within the bond in accordance  with the agreed mandate  it had from the 
trustees.
I still have  to decide  whether  Barclays has done something  wrong because  it isnt able to produce a 
copy of the trust deed  Mrs P and Mr P1 will have completed in 2006.
Barclays has said it has checked  its own records,  and also contacted Utmost  but that it had told Mr P 
it didnt have  a copy of the trust deed. I note the email  Mr P has provided  from Utmost which states 
that it has no record  of contact from Barclays.
But Barclays  has no reason to have said it contacted Utmost when it didnt  do so. And even if it is 
wrong, and it didnt directly  contact Utmost, I dont think this takes matters any further forward given 
Utmost has told Mr P it didnt have the trust deed. So whether Utmost  is mistaken, and it was 
contacted by Barclays,  or Barclays  got it wrong  and it didnt contact Utmost, we know it doesnt have 
the trust deed.
I also note the email  that Mr P has referred to from the manager of the bond which states:
The deed explains  the purpose  of the trust and details  the names  of the settlor, trustees and 
beneficiaries. 
But this simply explains  the information that is generally within a trust deed and provides no specific 
information about Mrs Ps and Mr P1s trust. In other words  the manager didnt need to see a copy of 
the trust deed to provide this information. And it isnt persuasive evidence that Barclays had a copy of 
the trust deed for the bond in its records at the time the email was sent.
On the evidence  I have seen I think it is clear that Barclays doesnt now have a copy  of the trust deed. 
Whether that is because a copy wasnt kept at the outset or because  it subsequently lost or destroyed 
the copy  I am unable to say, as I have seen  no evidence  that shows what  happened.
As Barclays doesnt have a copy of the trust deed  the question then is whether  Barclays has done 
anything wrong because it isnt able to provide a copy of the deed. Im mindful that it is the trustees 
who have responsibility to act in accordance  with the terms of the trust and it is very unlikely they 
didnt retain  the original or at least a copy so they were aware of their obligations under the trust.
I have taken account of what Barclays has said about it normally keeping  a copy  of the trust deed. But 
I have seen no evidence it agreed to keep the original deed on behalf of Mrs P and Mr P1 for 
Ref: DRN16654725safekeeping. So it isnt possible to say on the evidence  that the purpose of Barclays keeping a copy of 
the trust deed was because it had some obligation to do so on their behalf.
Given I have seen  no persuasive evidence  that Barclays had agreed to be custodians of the trust 
deed or were otherwise obliged to keep a copy of the trust deed for the benefit  of Mrs P and Mr P1 or 
the trustees, I dont think Barclays  has done  anything wrong because  it is not able to provide a copy  
of the trust deed to Mr P and Mrs P.
I note that Barclays  has agreed  to pay £250 to Mr P and Mrs P because of the enquiries they had to 
make about the trust deed  which I think is reasonable.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained. 
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1665472