K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2007. Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out although  I can understand why they cant  remember  this. The 
policy was sold over the phone. Knowing  what we do about how Santander  sold such  
policies at the time I think it would have made Mr and Mrs C aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI.  
Santander didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. But it did have to provide enough 
information for them to check  the cover was suitable  for them.  Based on what  Ive seen, I 
think that happened. For example, only Mr C was covered,  and the PPI would only have 
paid out if hed been unable to work  because  of an accident or illness. That suggests Mr 
and Mrs C decided not to buy cover for redundancy based on the information they got. 
Mr C wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he and 
Mrs C seem to have  had a need  for it.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1891515