K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that a mortgage  she took out with Barclays Bank  UK PLC in 2008 was mis-
sold. She says, in summary:
-her ex-husband  pressured her into taking out the mortgage, and the money  from it was 
used to pay his business debts;
-the mortgage was unsuitable because she couldnt afford it and there was no discussion 
about how she would repay it at the end of the term; and
-she has paid too much interest  on the mortgage.
background
Through a broker,  Ms W re-mortgaged to Barclays in 2008.  The mortgage repaid her 
existing mortgage  lender,  and she borrowed an additional £150,000. The borrowing came to 
around £400,000 and was taken on an interest-only basis  over a term of ten years  so it 
was due to be repaid  in 2018. The mortgage  is now past the end of its term, and Ms W says 
she is faced with having to sell her home and downsize  in order  to repay  the mortgage.
Ms W says she was very vulnerable in 2008 and her ex-husband made her agree to the 
mortgage under duress. She says she had no direct communication with the broker  and 
received no advice. She found out years later that the additional borrowing was used  to 
repay her ex-husbands business  debts,  which she had known nothing about.  She also says 
her ex-husband had told her when she took the mortgage that he would repay it at the end of 
the term but, in 2017, following a demand  for payment from another lender,  she found out he 
had no means to do so. In June 2018, she complained to Barclays and in May 2019  to the 
broker.
Barclays said it didnt sell Ms W the mortgage  or give her advice  about  it; the broker was 
responsible for the sale. It said the broker was also responsible for checking  Ms W could 
afford the mortgage  and that she understood her options for repaying it at the end of the 
term. It had had no reason to doubt the information the broker  had provided to it. It noted 
that Ms W had taken out the mortgage  more than six years before she complained,  but it 
consented to our service  considering the complaint.
Our investigator thought Barclays had done  nothing wrong. He pointed  out that the rules 
mortgage lenders  must follow have changed  considerably since 2008, and he concluded  that 
Barclays hadnt been unreasonable in granting the mortgage on the basis  of the information 
it had. He also said there was nothing to indicate  interest had been applied  wrongly.
Ms W didnt  accept that. She felt very strongly that she shouldnt  have  been  given this 
mortgage, although she said she accepted that Barclays  had relied on the information  the 
broker gave it. She provided  more  information about her circumstances  in 2008, as well as 
regulatory guidance about what is required now to apply for a mortgage. She also said she 
thought Barclays  had made administrative  errors in setting up the mortgage,  and the 
mortgage should be set aside on that basis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator did, for much the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN17566482First of all, theres no dispute that Ms W knew she was taking out a mortgage.  She 
remembers signing something in 2008,  she received documents  about  the mortgage  over 
the years, and there are notes on Barclays records of her direct  contact with it during the 
mortgage application process and since. 
Barclays wasnt responsible for advising Ms W about the mortgage  or deciding whether it 
was suitable for her. That was the brokers job, and this distinction  is set out in the mortgage 
offer. While Barclays had to ensure it lent responsibly, it was also for the broker to consider 
whether Ms W could afford the mortgage. 
Ive considered what Ms W has said about her vulnerability and the pressure she was under 
from her ex-husband  to agree  to the mortgage. Barclays received Ms Ws application via the 
broker, and I share  the investigators view that there was no particular  reason  for it to have 
supposed Ms W might have been  vulnerable  or under undue influence from a third party. 
Had there been, I would  expect Barclays  to have dealt with her application  very differently.
I also dont think there  was anything in the application to suggest the mortgage might not be 
affordable. It said Ms W was self-employed in a business that had been trading for more  
than ten years, with a monthly  income  of more than £5,000. She was the sole owner of her 
property, around £250,000  of the new mortgage was to repay her existing mortgage and the 
extra £150,000 was for home improvements. The eventual means of repayment for the 
mortgage was given as an ISA for the full mortgage  balance, at a monthly cost of £298, with 
a maturity date just before the end of the mortgage term.
Barclays records show it credit scored  the application but it didnt ask for proof of Ms Ws 
income or of an eventual  repayment vehicle before lending. It is right to say that, in 2008, it 
didnt have to do so. The rules governing mortgage lending have changed substantially since  
then, but it would not be fair for me to apply the rules which  are in force  now retrospectively.
I have noted what  Ms W has said about  much  of the information on the application being 
wrong. I can see from Barclays records  that it knew about the business debts which Ms W 
says she was unaware of. I cant,  however, see anything  to suggest it knew the additional 
mortgage borrowing  would be used to pay some of those debts. And I note that Ms Ws 
current account statement  shows that she received the mortgage  money  to her sole account; 
most of it was then paid from her account  into the business account.
In all the circumstances and given the information Barclays had available  to it, I dont find it 
was wrong to have  decided  to lend to Ms W. I have  also noted that it wrote to Ms W over the 
years, reminding her that her mortgage  term was due to end in 2018 and to think  about how 
she planned to repay the debt  as I would expect it to have done. 
Ms W wrote to Barclays  in April 2016  setting out her plan: she said she had received 
planning permission  to extend  one of the properties  on her land, having  separated  the titles 
to the various  properties. She said she was then planning to sell one property in 2016 and 
another in 2017, and repay the mortgage  from the proceeds. Ms W has said she did write  
that letter, and she hasnt said she was coerced or pressured  into doing so. So it seems  she 
had given some thought  to repayment,  although she has told us that she was still expecting 
her ex-husband to repay the mortgage  as he had promised. The monthly  mortgage  
payments were also maintained over the years.
Ref: DRN17566483Ms W has also said she thinks Barclays has charged her too much  interest  and made 
mistakes in setting up the mortgage. I find nothing to suggest  interest  has been applied  at a 
different rate from what  was set out in the contract. The first charge Barclays  took over the 
property replaced  the first charge  Ms Ws previous  mortgage lender would have  had. I find 
nothing wrong  there. And I dont consider that whether or not a mortgage current  account  
was opened alongside the mortgage affects  the outcome  of this complaint. A mortgage  
current account would have been needed  to borrow money on the mortgage  reserve,  had 
one been set up. It was not a savings account and had nothing to do with any repayment 
vehicle.
In all the circumstances, I dont consider I can fairly  require Barclays  to set aside all or part 
of the mortgage,  or pay Ms W any compensation. I think  its now for Ms W and Barclays to 
discuss repayment now the mortgage  term has ended.  I understand they have already had 
some discussions  about work Ms W is doing  on the land, as well as investments which  she 
expects to generate  returns  of £2-£3  million.  
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic  and related Government restrictions,  the regulator has issued
guidelines to lenders.  Current guidelines  say that lenders cant  take or resume  possession
action until November 2020. This gives Ms W some breathing space to discuss her plans 
with Barclays, seek independent financial advice about her options, or to put the property on 
the market for sale. 
Ms W should keep Barclays informed about  the steps she is taking to repay the
mortgage. Id expect Barclays to continue to treat her fairly. But, ultimately,  if she isnt able to 
repay the mortgage, Barclays is entitled  to take possession as a last resort.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1756648