K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy over the telephone in 1993.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs K owed on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs K couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The cover  would have lasted  until her 
unemployment or her disability ended or the outstanding amount was repaid.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said the costs and the benefits 
werent clear. And taking  into account  Mrs Ks circumstances she didnt think  she would  
have taken out the PPI if they had been  clearer. FICL disagreed with this view and asked  
that the matter  be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I dont think FICL recommended the PPI to Mrs K. That meant it didnt need to take steps to 
make sure it was suitable for her. But it still needed  to give her enough  clear  information so 
she could decide  for herself whether it was a good  fit for her needs.
Mrs K says she felt stable in her job. She was entitled to bonuses,  share dividends  and she 
would have received at least six months  full sick pay from work  if she was off work. She has 
also told us she had around £8000 in available  savings- so she didnt need the cover.
FICL questioned Mrs Ks savings and we went back to ask for more  information; in particular 
whether Mrs Ks savings  were earmarked for a particular purpose. Mrs K explained that they 
werent to be used for any specific purpose but just general savings. I dont think its 
reasonable to ask her for evidence of her savings,  considering its over 25 years ago since  
the policy was sold. What Mrs K has told us doesnt seem at all unreasonable.  Im satisfied 
that she likely had this level of sick pay taking into account her job and the length of time she 
had worked. I also think its plausible that she had the savings she told us about - she has 
been consistent in what shes said to this service about these savings. 
FICL has told us that Mrs K would have been made  aware of the costs and the benefits of 
the policy. But I cant say that FICL would have told her about the fact that she would have 
needed to keep on paying the premiums during a claim  or that interest would be added  if she 
didnt pay off her outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN12543662Overall, I think this would  have mattered to Mrs K because from what  shes told us I think 
she could have met her store card repayments for long enough without the PPI so I dont 
think she had a need for the policy. I dont think FICL gave  her enough information so she 
could decide herself whether or not to take out the cover. I think if Mrs K would have realised 
it wasnt good value  for money she wouldnt have taken it out. So I think  she lost out 
financially because of what  FICL did wrong and I uphold this complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs K in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs K wouldve owed when the account was closed if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs K owed when she closed the 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs K would have 
owed when she closed the account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs K would  have owed each month without  PPI        
Mrs K paid more  than enough to clear the balance, FICL  should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mrs K paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs K wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% 
a year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs K what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give    
Mrs K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited should pay compensation as set out in the putting things right  section  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1254366