K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited gave them wrong  advice 
about their private  medical insurance policy  and now wont  compensate  them for this.
background
Mr M was a member of a group private medical insurance policy held with AXA PPP. His 
wife, Mrs M, was also covered under the policy. The policy  renewed in June each year.
At the time of the June 2017  renewal, Mr M asked AXA PPP about possible ways  to reduce 
the cost of the policy. AXA PPP explained  that this could  be done only by increasing  the 
excess payable under the policy  or by removing  the outpatient cover. 
In December 2017, Mr M again contacted  AXA PPP. He said he was retiring  and therefore 
could no longer afford the monthly  payment. He asked whether he could  remove himself 
from the policy while allowing Mrs M to remain on cover. AXA PPP agreed  this was possible.
Mr M removed himself  from cover with effect from January 2018. He complained  to AXA 
PPP that at the time of renewal it had told him this option wasnt possible because he was 
the lead member of the policy. He asked it to refund  him the premium  of £1,777 covering the 
six months from June to December 2017.
AXA PPP didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr M hadnt asked to be taken off the policy in 
June 2017. It acknowledged  it hadnt  offered  him this option  but said this was because it 
understood he had wanted to continue with his cover. It pointed out that, in any case, hed 
received more in benefit during this period than hed paid in claims so if it did retrospectively 
cancel his policy he would end up owing it money. It nonetheless arranged  to pay him £100 
compensation for any poor service.  
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy at AXA PPPs response. They referred  their complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She noted from the 
recordings of the telephone calls that it wasnt until December 2017 that Mr M asked  if he 
could be removed from the policy. She concluded that AXA PPP hadnt given wrong advice 
to Mr M at the June  2017 renewal and so was under no obligation to refund his premiums.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. They said that if Mr Ms request to 
remove him had not been made  during the phone calls at the time of renewal then it had 
definitely been made on an earlier phone  call. They said Mrs M had been receiving 
treatment for a serious condition at the time and so needed to remain under cover.  They 
thought AXA PPP should in any case have suggested the option of removing Mr M from the 
policy when he asked  about ways of reducing the cost at the time of the 2017 renewal.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN17819762I have listened  to the two telephone  calls which took place around the time of the June 2017 
renewal. Mr M explains that he wants to reduce  the cost of his policy  but he doesnt  ask 
whether he could be removed from the policy while allowing his wife to remain under cover.
Mr M is adamant that he made  such a request  at some point before December 2017  and 
was told by AXA PPP this wasnt possible.  However, AXA PPP has located only one other 
telephone call which was in October  2016  and this still didnt contain such  a request.
I appreciate that Mr M firmly believes he made this request and was told by AXA PPP that it 
wasnt possible. However, based on the available evidence I cant reasonably conclude that 
AXA PPP gave him wrong information.
Mr and Mrs M think that AXA PPP should  nonetheless have volunteered this suggestion 
when Mr M was seeking to reduce the cost of his policy at the time of the June 2017 
renewal. However,  I disagree with this. AXA PPP suggested increasing the policy  excess  or 
removing the outpatient cover. I think it was reasonable for AXA PPP to assume that Mr M 
wanted to retain his cover and it was therefore  up to him to suggest removing himself from 
the policy as a means of reducing  cost.
Given that Im satisfied AXA PPP didnt do anything wrong in its dealings with Mr and Mrs M, 
I dont think it should be required to refund a portion of the premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1781976