K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society wrongly  contacted Mr W by email. 
It also sent information to him by post, which Mrs W didnt receive. Mr and Mrs W complain 
that the society failed to properly answer their concerns when they complained, and that they 
received different amounts  of compensation.
 
background
Mrs W has a credit  card account with Nationwide, and Mr W is an additional card holder. Mrs 
W gave Nationwide permission to send her correspondence by post only,  other than in 
emergency situations. Mr W wasnt supposed to receive any correspondence about the 
account at all. 
But Nationwide wrongly contacted Mr W by email. It also sent him information by post, but 
the same  information  wasnt sent to Mrs W. 
At first, Nationwide said the email had been sent because Mr W had only opted out of 
marketing emails. But it later accepted that the email shouldnt have been sent at all, and 
offered £50 compensation to Mr W. It offered an additional £50 in recognition of the errors in 
its original response.
Mrs W also complained and Nationwide  offered  her £50 for the delay in dealing  with her 
complaint, and for wrongly sending the email to Mr W  who isnt the account holder.
Our adjudicator thought the compensation Nationwide  had offered  was fair and reasonable. 
He was also satisfied  that Nationwide had taken steps to make  sure Mr and Mrs Ws email 
details had been removed from its systems. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with the adjudicators conclusions. In particular, they didnt 
consider Nationwide had properly answered  the questions theyd raised  when they 
complained. Mr and Mrs W also said Nationwide had only paid £100 of the compensation 
offered.
They asked for their complaint to be reviewed.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Nationwide wrongly sent an email to Mr W. Its unfortunate that the 
error wasnt recognised  by Nationwide when Mr and Mrs W first complained  to the society. 
Nationwide offered £100 compensation  to Mr W, and removed from its systems the email 
details for both Mr and Mrs W. 
Nationwide also offered £50 to Mrs W. I can see why she might  consider she shouldve  
received the same compensation as Mr W. 
I note, however, that the initial complaint was made by Mr W. Nationwide replied to him, 
which I dont think was unreasonable. It accepted that the email shouldnt  have been sent 
Ref: DRN16237402and offered £50. Mrs W was offered the same compensation  for the error   which I think  is 
fair.
Mr Ws additional compensation was in connection  with mistakes made in Nationwides initial  
reply to his complaint. Again,  I think that was fair. But as the compensation was paid for 
errors in a letter to Mr W, I dont think Nationwide had to offer the same  compensation to Mrs 
W.
Mrs W says she hadnt  received by letter (by September 2018) information that had been 
sent to Mr W by email. I consider it would be reasonable  for Nationwide  to send that 
information to Mrs W if it hasnt  already  done so.
Mr and Mrs W also consider Nationwide failed  to answer their specific questions about why 
the email was sent in the first place, and its poor complaint handling.  I accept that 
Nationwides responses may not have fully addressed  the points they raised.
But Im mindful that the basis of the complaint was an email that was wrongly  sent to Mr W. 
Nationwide accepted it shouldnt have sent the email, and took corrective steps to make  sure 
it wouldnt happen again. It also offered compensation to Mr and Mrs W - and Im satisfied 
that the amount it offered was fair and reasonable.
I can see why Mr and Mrs W might consider Nationwide didnt fully resolve their complaint. 
But when I take account of the mistake that was made, and what Nationwide has done to put 
things right, Im not persuaded that it needs to do anything else.
If Nationwide  hasnt  paid all of the compensation it offered  to Mr and Mrs W, it should do so 
as soon as possible.
my final decision
My decision  is that Nationwide Building  Society should pay £150 in total to Mr and Mrs W, if 
it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1623740