K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that esure Insurance Limited settled another drivers  claim against his motor  
insurance policy when  he said it was false. He wants  £26,000  compensation.
background
Mr R was involved in an incident when he said the car in front of him braked suddenly. But 
he said there was no damage caused. The other  driver made a claim against Mr R and 
esure investigated it and decided  to settle it. And so Mr R had a fault claim on his record  and 
his No Claims Discount  (NCD)  was affected. But Mr R was unhappy with the independent 
engineers report.  He wanted compensation for the stress caused by the claim.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  esure 
had reasonably investigated  and decided to settle  the other drivers claim as he thought it 
was entitled to by the policys terms and conditions. He thought esure could reasonably  rely 
on an independent assessors report as Mr R hadnt provided his own independent 
engineers report.  And he thought esure  had reasonably  paid Mr R £50 compensation for 
providing him with an incorrect phone number.
Mr R replied that hed notified  esure of the incident  and a likely scam attempt on the day of 
the incident. He said esure sent him an email confirming that hed done nothing  wrong.  He 
challenged the engineering evidence  esure  had relied on. He asked why esure had asked  
his witness for a statement and then disregarded it. He maintained that no damage  had been  
caused. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Rs frustration and upset with esures decision. He said he suspected  
the incident was a scam from the start and he notified  esure and the police at the time. But 
the other driver made a claim  and esure investigated it and decided to settle  it.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing an incident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
esure is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr R to take over, defend,  
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mr R has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of a claim, whether  he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Also, insurers are entitled to take a commercial  
decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to compromise.
When Mr R notified esure  of the incident,  it hadnt  yet received the other drivers claim. So it 
wrote to Mr R saying  that it wouldnt act further on the notification. esure didnt tell Mr R that 
hed done nothing wrong. It said if it received allegations from the other driver, it would 
contact Mr R to discuss  this. It then received the claim, and so I think the incident was no 
longer for notification  only. 
Ref: DRN11511102When esure received  the claim, it had a duty to investigate it. It instructed an independent  
engineer to inspect  Mr Rs car and take photographs  of it. esure compensated Mr R with £50 
for the trouble caused by him having to arrange  this appointment himself as the wrong 
number was provided. I think this was fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar 
circumstances. 
The independent engineer provided a report with photographs of the damage on Mr Rs car. 
Mr R disputed the engineers ability and qualifications, but I havent  seen  anything  to show 
that he wasnt qualified  to undertake the inspection. 
esure then compared  the damage on Mr Rs car with that claimed on the other drivers car to 
produce a consistency  report. It decided that there  was sufficient evidence of accident  
related damage  consistent with the damage reported on the other car. And so esure decided 
that it would  be unable to defend the matter  if it went to court and it settled the other  drivers 
claim. 
Mr R said that the damage on his car was old and couldnt have been caused as described. 
But, as Mr R knows, were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a 
vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance 
companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an 
insurance company  has considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its 
decision about a claim.
I can see that esure invited Mr R several  times  to provide his own engineers report to 
challenge the one it instructed. But I cant see that hes done  this. So I think  it was fair and 
reasonable for esure  to rely on the independent  engineers report and the views of its in 
house engineers when  assessing the consistency of the damage.  
Mr R said the other  driver agreed there had been no damage  and drove off without 
exchanging details. I wasnt there  at the time, so I cant verify  what actually happened. But 
the other driver did later make a claim,  and so I think esure was obliged  to deal with that.  
Mr R found out that his passenger had provided  a witness statement but esure had 
discounted it. But I dont  think  this is incorrect as the witness  wouldnt be regarded as 
independent. 
So I think esure reasonably investigated and settled the claim as it was entitled  to do under  
the policy terms and conditions. I cant say that its done anything  wrong in this, that its 
treated Mr R unfairly or needs to pay him any compensation.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1151110