K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc is recording incorrect information 
about two loans she took out in 2012 and 2013.
background
In 2018 after seeing some information on her mobile  banking service that she didnt  think  
was right,  Mrs H contacted RBS. She was concerned her loan  which  she thought  had 
closed in 2016  was showing  as only having  closed in 2018. She contacted  RBS who 
provided her information about her loans.
She then became concerned about  payments and the validity of what was on her 
statements. She didnt  believe  RBSs response. Mrs H brought  her complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence including RBSs detailed  records. RBS no longer 
held the original loan applications. He was able to confirm  Mrs H had taken out a home 
improvement loan for £7,500 in February 2012. Repayments were  due over 60 months. 
Shed spent £6,337.32 on replacement windows in April 2012.  Mrs H had then taken out a 
further loan of £9,350  in February  2013. This paid off her 2012 loan and gave her an 
additional amount of more than £3,000. This loan was due to last 48 months  and the last 
monthly payment  was made on 1 March 2017.
He felt this loan was still showing on her 2018  statement because it may have been formally 
closed off RBSs  systems  slightly  later than the last payment being taken. He didnt think this 
had any impact on Mrs H as it was clear RBSs records reflected what  had happened.
Mrs H didnt agree. She had now reached a stage  where she found  it difficult to trust RBS 
and what theyd told us. She asked an ombudsman  to consider her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion for roughly  similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly Ive reviewed  what  our investigator wrote on 5 August 2019, along  with the records  
RBS provided to us. After  our investigator completed his view, Mrs H was able to find her 
original loan applications dated 14 February 2012  and 25 February  2013.
Ive reviewed these. Im sorry to tell Mrs H but the information shes  given  us clearly confirms  
she took out two loans.  The first was for 60 months.  Mrs H repaid this early  in February 
2013. She essentially topped up this loan to give herself more money. Shes said herself  
and her bank statements  confirm this  she wanted to send money to her family to help with 
the costs of a wedding.  This second  loan was taken out for 48 months. So Mrs H is right that 
she wanted to keep the overall length of her loan period  to be the same when she took out 
the second loan. Thats what happened.
Ive reviewed Mrs Hs bank  statements. The last payment for her second  loan was definitely 
taken on 1 March  2017. In fact the statement narrative says last payment. There were no 
loan payments taken  after that date.
Ref: DRN13831042Mrs Hs loan payments stopped when they were  due to under  the terms Mrs H agreed when 
she took it out in February 2013.  I believe Mrs H may have misremembered when she tells 
us her loan was due to come to an end in 2016. None of the paperwork  which she 
provided to us  says this.
I can appreciate Mrs H was disconcerted seeing a reference to a loan she knew  was paid off 
a year after the last payment. But I cant see this has had any financial impact  on her so I 
wont be asking RBS to do anything further.
Mrs H has also raised a discrepancy on her statement. This relates to the payment she 
made for her replacement  windows. Her statement  says BPS but she knows the payment 
was made  through BACS.
All banks  use different  terms  and initials for bank payments initiated by their customers. All 
one-off payments are made using the industry  faster payments scheme. Those payments 
are processed through BACS so Mrs H is quite correct. But as I say banks calls those 
payments different things  Ive seen  them called FPO (for faster payment outwards) for 
example and it appears RBS uses the term BPS. This is not a discrepancy but I appreciate  
Mrs H may find it irritating and confusing.
Overall I dont believe RBS has done  anything wrong so I wont be asking them  to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint against The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.  
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1383104