K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly applied an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when  they repaid their mortgage. Theyd like the ERC refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs W say Barclays cant provide evidence they signed  and agreed to the terms of a 
new product, including an ERC. They  say if Barclays cant provide this evidence,  it should 
refund the ERC.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Mr and 
Mrs W agreed to the ERC when  they took out a new product in 2017. Barclays  had written to 
them to confirm this and the ERC was also set out on their annual  mortgage statements. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  Mr W said Barclays couldnt provide evidence  theyd agreed to 
the product.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs W repaid  their Barclays mortgage in December 2018.  They paid an ERC  of 
about £6,000. Mr and Mrs W say this should  be refunded as Barclays  cant  provide a copy  of 
any contract signed by them agreeing to the ERC.
Barclays says Mr and Mrs W agreed to a new product which applied from February 2017. 
This included an ERC which applied until 30 April 2019. Barclays  has a record that it 
received a signed declaration form from Mr and Mrs W agreeing to the product terms. But it 
cant provide a copy with Mr and Mrs Ws signatures. 
Barclays provided other evidence that Mr and Mrs W agreed  to the product. It provided the 
application form for the new product   which says an ERC will apply until 30 April 2019. It 
provided a copy of the mortgage offer and the key facts illustration for the product, both of 
which set out the amount of the ERC and when it applied.
Barclays notes say it received and verified  the signed mortgage  declaration  form. The new 
product rate was applied to Mr and Mrs Ws account from early February 2017. Barclays 
provided a copy of the letter sent to Mr and Mrs W confirming  the new rate and monthly 
payments. The ERC is set out on Mr and Mrs Ws annual  mortgage statement. If Mr and 
Mrs W didnt agree to the product switch, Id have expected them  to raise this with Barclays 
when they received these documents.  
Based on the available evidence, I think Mr and Mrs W agreed  to the product, including  the 
ERC. I think  the information  sent to them by Barclays made it clear that an ERC  applied until 
30 April 2019. Mr and Mrs W repaid  the mortgage while  the ERC applied.  In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  its fair and reasonable to require Barclays  to refund  the ERC.
Ref: DRN13573112my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1357311