K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Zenith Insurance plc undervalued his car after he claimed on his motor
trade insurance policy. Hes also complained there  was additional damage to his car when
the salvage was returned to him.
For ease of reading reference  to Zenith  also includes its agents.
background 
Mr Ts car was damaged in a fire, so he claimed on his policy.  Zenith  arranged  for his car to
be collected and the damage  assessed. It said the car was a total loss and offered to pay
Mr T the trade value  in line with the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr T didnt  think  Zenith had offered him enough.  He said it had valued  the wrong model car,
which meant the valuation didnt include all the extras his had. He also asked Zenith to
return his car to him so he could break it for parts. When Mr Ts car was returned  to him, he
said it had more damage than when it was collected.  Mr T also said items had been stolen
from the car, including  some of the cars fuel. Because of this he complained to Zenith.
Zenith reviewed Mr Ts complaint and said the trade  guides it used to value cars showed
Mr Ts car as a 2003 TD6 Vogue. Mr T says his car is an Autobiography but Zenith said the
guides dont show  the model of Mr Ts car as being produced until a year after his was
made. It said - when inputting his cars  registration - the trade  guides  showed a different
model of car to what  he said it was. Because of this Zenith did two valuations.  One based  on
the model the guides showed  Mr Ts car was, and another for the model Mr T said it was.
Zenith then took the average  of the two valuations. Zenith said the retail value was in line
with the amount Mr T was asking for, but as his policy only covered him for the trade  value
thats what it would pay.
Mr T didnt  agree with this and complained to our service. He said Zeniths  valuation  of his
car was too low and it had been  damaged further when in Zeniths possession.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 April 2020 where I said:  The terms 
and conditions of Mr Ts policy say the most  Zenith will pay is the trade market  value.  It 
defines this as The typical cost of replacing your vehicle (in its pre-incident  state)  with one 
of the same  or similar  make, model,  year, mileage and condition within the motor trade at a 
price that allows  for future re-sale at a profit,  regardless of whether that is your intention.
Our service doesnt value  cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers  valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use
relevant trade guides. I find these persuasive  as theyre based on nationwide research of
sales prices.
Zenith said that when  it checked the details  for Mr Ts car the guides  show  it as a 2003 TD6
Vogue and Glasss guide gave a trade  value of £2,570. Mr T says his car is an
Autobiography, but Zenith said the guides dont have an option  for a 2003 Autobiography.
Zenith therefore checked Glasss valuation for a 2004 Autobiography and produced a trade
value of £3,240. Zenith  averaged these values and offered Mr T £2,905.
Ref: DRN16352942Mr T has provided  a lot of information to show his car is a 2003  Autobiography, and Im
persuaded by this. But I also would  expect the trade guides to know when models were
introduced. Ive looked at the valuations given in three relevant trade  guides  - CAP, Glasss
and Cazana - for a 2004 Autobiography with the same  mileage  as Mr Ts car. CAP produced
a trade  value of £3,025, Glasss £3,240 and Cazana £3,515. The average  of these comes to
£3,260, which is higher  than the amount Zenith has offered. However, as Mr Ts car is a
2003 model, rather than a 2004, it would most likely be valued lower than these. So, Zeniths
valuation is within the range of these guides.  Im satisfied its fair and reasonable and in line
with the policy terms.
When Zenith settled Mr Ts claim, it agreed he could keep the salvage as he wanted to keep
it for parts. As Mr T kept his car Zenith  deducted the salvage amount from the settlement
paid. Mr T said when  the car was returned  to him it had more damage than when it was
taken away by Zenith. He also said CDs and other items had been stolen along with some
of the fuel.
I can see Zenith agreed it caused damage  to the front bumper but doesnt think it caused
any other damage or removed items from the car. Zenith said if Mr T isnt happy with the
condition of the car then it would buy it back and reimburse him the salvage amount it
deducted from the settlement.
Ive reviewed Mr Ts points about the condition of the car and the missing items. From
reviewing the photos of Mr Ts car before collection and after Im satisfied there is additional
damage to it. I say this because from the pictures I can see the side skirts appear damaged
and are being held on with cable  ties, whereas in earlier pictures  they dont seem to have
any damage to them.  From the pictures of Mr Ts car, the interior has also started to be
pulled apart, the roof lining, access panels  and the centre consol. You can also see the CD
cassette has been removed and is left empty in the car. Mr T has also been consistent  with
his testimony about whats been removed and the damage. Im therefore satisfied items
have been removed from the car and additional  damage has been  caused.
Mr Ts car was categorised as a category B write  off, this means it must be broken for parts
and isnt suitable for repair. Because of this the disposal of the vehicle needs to comply with
waste regulations. Mr T said he retained the car to dismantle it for parts and he has the
required licence to do this. Zenith  and our investigator have asked Mr T for evidence hes
able to break the car for parts and dispose of the waste correctly.  Mr T hasnt provided it, but
even if he did provide the required licence.  Im not satisfied hes evidenced  his loss. This is
because there would be a cost involved  in breaking the car for parts, selling  them and
disposing of the waste. I accept Zenith  has caused  additional damage  to the car. But Mr T
hasnt shown hes able to break  the car for parts or shown what  his loss is. Therefore, the
fair and reasonable outcome would be for Zenith  to buy the car back and reimburse  the
salvage amount  deducted  from the settlement, if the settlement has already been  paid.
Im persuaded by Mr Ts testimony  about  the missing items mentioned  above.  Hes also said
there were two pairs  of headphones in the car which when added  to the cost of the CDs
meant hed lost £140 worth of belongings. As Im persuaded these items are missing  Zenith
should pay Mr T this amount and add 8% simple  interest per year to this amount to
compensate Mr T for not having the money.  For the missing fuel Im not going to ask Zenith
to reimburse Mr T for this. This is because as Zenith is now buying the car back  and
disposing of it, any fuel in the car would belong to Zenith.  So, Im not going to ask Zenith  to
do anymore regarding the missing fuel.
Ref: DRN16352943Zenith didnt respond  to my provisional decision.  Mr T responded and said his car had 
already been disposed  of by a licensed end of life facility and a certificate issued by the 
DVLA. He said because of this it wasnt possible for Zenith to buy back  the car. I asked our 
investigator to let Mr T and Zenith know that because  of this I agreed  it wouldnt be possible 
for Zenith to buy the car off Mr T. I also said its likely he would have received scrap value for 
the car when  it was disposed of, so I didnt  think Zenith needed to do anymore in relation to 
the additional damage caused when in Zeniths possession. But my findings on the value of 
his car and the missing items remained  the same. 
Mr T responded and said he didnt  receive any payment for his car when it was disposed of 
and that Im refusing to penalise  Zenith for their errors. He also said the car wasnt returned 
to him but to an end of life facility  of his choice as this is what Zenith said he had to do.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ts comments, but they havent persuaded me to change  my position on 
this complaint. I say this because while Mr T didnt receive payment for the scrap value of his 
car when  he disposed of it. This is an arrangement between Mr T and the end of life facility 
he chose. Im therefore satisfied its fair and reasonable  for Zenith  to deduct the scrap value 
from the settlement  paid.  So, Im not going to instruct Zenith to compensate him for the scrap 
value of his car. 
In response to Mr Ts comments about Zenith  not being punished for their errors, its not our 
role to punish a business. Instead if a business  has got something wrong, we look at the 
impact this has on their customer. If theyve  lost out as a result, we would instruct  the 
business to correct it. For the reasons  explained  above Im not persuaded Mr T has 
evidenced all his losses so Im not going to instruct Zenith to do any more than Ive said 
above. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I partly uphold  this complaint. I 
require Zenith Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mr T £2,905 minus the cost of salvage,  for the trade  value of his car, if not 
already paid
Pay Mr T £140 for the missing items, adding 8% simple interest  per year to this 
amount, calculated from the date of fire until the date paid1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Zenith Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.   
Ref: DRN16352944
Ref: DRN1635294