K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
September 2020. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Neither Mr N nor 
ELL have  provided  us with anything more. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
So I confirm  my provisional decision that the evidence I have seen doesnt suggest that ELL 
was wrong to give this loan to Mr N. It follows that I dont uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19253562EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr N complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr N was given a single loan by ELL. He borrowed £1,500  in October 2016 and agreed to repay the 
loan in 24 monthly  instalments. Mr N faced some difficulties making his repayments but ultimately he 
repaid the loan earlier  than agreed, in May 2017.
Mr Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought  that the checks ELL 
had done were proportionate. But she didnt think ELL had fairly interpreted  the information  those 
checks had shown.  So she didnt think ELL should  have agreed to give the loan to Mr N, and asked it 
to pay him some compensation.
ELL didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Mr Ns complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Mr N required  it to carry  out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether he could  afford  to repay  what he owed in a sustainable 
manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think  about whether repaying the credit  
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr N. In practice this meant that 
ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr N undue  difficulty or adverse  
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply  think  about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
Ref: DRN19253563There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing to lend to Mr N.
ELL gathered some information from Mr N before  it agreed the loan. It asked him for details of his 
income, and his normal rent or mortgage costs. It then used some statistical data to estimate Mr Ns 
remaining expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other 
creditors. ELL also asked Mr N for a copy of a recent bank  statement that it used to verify his income 
and check any unusual items of expenditure.
Mr N was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So I would expect that ELL would want to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about  Mr Ns financial circumstances before it agreed 
to lend to him. I think  that the checks ELL did here achieved that aim. So I think  that the checks  ELL 
did were  proportionate.
But simply performing  proportionate  checks isnt enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately to 
the information shown by those checks. So Ive looked carefully at the information  Mr N provided  to 
ELL, and what  its other checks uncovered.
ELLs credit check  showed  that Mr N hadnt always managed his credit accounts well. In particular he 
had got behind with repayments on a loan and a credit card in the past year. But, at the time he 
applied for the loan from ELL, hed been up to date with all his repayments for a number of months.
Mr Ns credit file also showed  that he was borrowing from other short term lenders at that time.  ELL 
provided high cost credit,  so the consumers  it might attract would often be unable to access  
mainstream loans at a lower interest rate. So I dont think ELL would have drawn significantly adverse 
conclusions from Mr N holding short term loans. And Mr N told ELL that he was intending to use its 
loan to refinance his other borrowing. 
Mr Ns bank statement  didnt  show any signs of serious problems with his finances. It didnt for 
example show  things  such as regular unpaid  transactions or escalating levels of overdraft or other 
debt. As ELL noted,  the bank statements did show some evidence of gambling  transactions. And the 
amounts involved were higher than ELL recorded in its notes. But those transactions dont appear to 
show evidence that Mr N was struggling to control his gambling spending  the amounts  he spent 
appear to have been  well within his means. 
So all that taken together might reasonably have led ELL to conclude that Mr N could sustainably  
afford the repayments he would  need to make.  But I think Mr Ns credit history should have caused 
some concerns to the lender.  The problems  hed faced in the past and the amount of credit he had 
taken were somewhat  at odds with the disposable income his bank statements  suggested. Of course 
it might be that Mr N had recently overcome  some historic  problems   but I think a responsible lender 
might have probed a little deeper into Mr Ns situation and why he needed further credit.
But based on the evidence I have seen to date, I cannot reasonably conclude that those  further 
questions would have  uncovered information  that might have led ELL to decline Mr Ns loan 
application. Mr N had said he wished  to use the loan to consolidate some other debt  and it seems 
this loan might have  been  at a far lower  interest rate than the short  term loans he was consolidating. 
So although I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr N, I cant  currently conclude 
that ELL was wrong  to give him this loan.
Ref: DRN1925356