K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) mis-sold her short term 
loans.
Mrs C wants Lending Stream to pay her compensation and remove  the loans from her credit 
file.
background
Mrs C took out 11 loans with Lending  Stream between  June 2015 and June 2017. Mrs C still 
owes money to Lending  Stream on loan 11.
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint be upheld in part. He asked Lending 
Stream to refund the interest and charges that Mrs C had paid on loans 7 to 11. And the 
adjudicator recommended  that Lending  Stream  remove loans 7 to 11 from Mrs Cs credit file.
Lending Stream agreed to put things right in line with the adjudicators recommendation.  
Lending Stream explained  that there was an outstanding balance on loan 11 so it said it 
would apply the refund against the principal due and then help Mrs C repay  the outstanding 
balance through  an affordable payment arrangement.  
Mrs C says that shed tried to contact  Lending Stream  previously  without success. Mrs C 
doesnt want Lending Stream to apply the refund against the outstanding debt on loan 11. 
Mrs C says that instead she will set up a payment plan as shes  in financial difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs C hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to six  the loans  that he didnt uphold. It seems  to me that these loans are not in 
dispute so I dont consider I need to say anything more about  them.
Lending Stream has already offered to put things right for loans 7 to 11 so I dont consider I 
need explain  why I agree with the adjudicators recommendation  to uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint about  these  loans. 
The only aspect of this complaint that appears  to be unresolved is that Mrs C objects  to 
Lending Stream applying  the refund against the outstanding principal balance due on loan 
11. So its here that I will focus my decision.
Im sorry  to hear that Mrs C is in financial difficulties. And I appreciate that Mrs C wants  to 
receive the refund herself but as shes had the benefit of the money lent, I consider its 
reasonable to allow  Lending  Stream to apply the refund against  the debt on loan 11. 
Although Mrs C says that shes contacted Lending  Stream several times without a response,  
this isnt something that Mrs C included in her original complaint to this service. So it doesnt 
change my decision that Lending Stream can offset  the refund against  Mrs Cs principal 
debt. 
Ref: DRN13092512However, as Ive made clear below  if Lending  Stream has sold the debt to a third party  and 
doesnt buy it back, then it wont be able to make any deductions  from the compensation 
payment. It would then be up to Mrs C to try and agree a repayment  plan with the third party.
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mrs C paid on loans 7 to 11;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan seven means that any information about  
loans 7 to 11 is negative. So all entries about  loans 7 to 10 should be immediately 
removed from Mrs Cs credit file and any entries  about loan 11 should be removed once 
the outstanding principal balance  has been settled.
As Mrs C still owes Lending Stream the principal balance that she borrowed on loan 11, 
Lending Stream should remove all the interest  and charges applied to the outstanding 
balance (including  any that may have been applied by a third party  debt purchaser). The 
important thing is to make sure that Mrs C has paid or will pay no more in total than the 
principal amount she borrowed.
If after doing this, Mrs C still owes money on loan 11, Lending Stream can apply the refund 
to the outstanding principal balance. But if Lending Stream no longer owns the debt and it 
wants to make a deduction  due to the amount owed then it should buy it back. 
If Lending Stream no longer owns the debt and doesnt buy it back  then Lending Stream  isnt 
entitled to make any deductions  for it from the amount that it needs to pay Mrs C.
If after taking the above steps there  is still a principal balance  due, I remind Lending Stream  
of its obligation  to treat Mrs C fairly  and reasonably in any settlement discussions.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
If Lending Stream intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance, it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
Ref: DRN13092513my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part and direct Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream)  to put things right as detailed  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1309251