K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about the Homecare  agreement she had with British Gas Insurance 
Limited. In January 2014 when she moved  home, she transferred her existing agreement to 
her new home. She was satisfied with the service she had received to that point,  but has not 
been since. She believes the agreement  is not fit for purpose and poor service  has led to 
further problems  with her heating  system. 
Mrs B would like a refund of all the premiums paid to the policy  since January 2014 plus 
compensation for the time taken.
background
In 2014 Mrs B bought a new house and took her existing Homecare agreement with her as 
she had been  satisfied with the service she had received  over the previous years.  Shes told 
us when she bought the house there was no mention of any problems with the boiler. Also 
she was told it had been thoroughly checked  before the purchase.  
British Gas records from the March 2014  service detail the engineer  advised on water 
quality and the fitting of a magna booster. A product book was left with Mrs B. The 
associated checklist detailed the boiler was 12 years old and it was the first inspection  and a 
combustion seal was fitted. Mrs B has said it was recommended  the system  was power 
flushed during  this visit, but if that advice was given, it wasnt  documented on British  Gas 
records.
At the annual service  in April 2015  it was detailed  a leak was repaired  on the lounge radiator. 
The engineer recommended Mrs B have her central  heating system power flushed as there 
was black water in the system. In addition, it was suggested a magna booster was fitted. 
Mrs B called British Gas out later that month  because she believed there was another  leak.  It 
was noted by the engineer on British  Gas system  no leaks  were found. 
Two months  later Mrs B again  called  British Gas out because of a problem. It was detailed 
that the engineer repressurised  the expansion vessel in the boiler and fitted a flue clamp. In 
addition advice was given about fitting  an additional external expansion vessel.  This was 
fitted in August 2015 and a problem with the boiler  stopping was dealt with  the door 
assembly was replaced and new electrodes fitted.  Mrs B also had Hive installed later that 
month.
Mrs B has told us on a visit after various  breakdowns a senior engineer attended. As the 
above incidents is the only series  of call outs,  it was during the summer of 2015 this visit 
occurred. She told us the senior engineer drew off water  from the system and said there was 
no sludge in the system and showed Mrs B a relatively clear container.  She followed his 
recommendations and has throughout  no power flush  has ever been  done.
In February 2016  an annual  service  was carried out. It was detailed the engineer  completed  
a quote for a combined Hive upgrade and a filter being fitted during that visit. Ten days  later 
Mrs B had the upgrades done.  Two nights later she had to call out an engineer.  It was 
detailed the problem was the pump  flow switch had seized up with sludge  hours  after the 
magna booster had been fitted.
Ref: DRN10006252In Jan 2017 Mrs B cancelled the policy. She says she considered the agreement was both 
expensive and pointless. Following that the system was serviced by an independent plumber 
who also stated there  was no sludge in the system. 
In April she raised concerns about having  been  chased for overdue payments for upgrade  
works shed  had completed and were paid on an agreed instalment plan. British Gas made a 
settlement to Mrs B and she accepted  the resolution. Following up on that complaint she 
said:
she wanted a refund of her homecare premiums (less the cost of the plumbing cover 
etc.) as the boiler still wasnt working effectively and cut out at least once a day despite 
numerous visits from engineers; 
she also wanted a refund  of the costs  she had paid out to get the boiler working 
effectively;
she was unhappy,  after one of the first visits, to be told she needed to pay £600 for a 
complete flush of the heating system,  as subsequent engineers  had said it wasnt 
needed; and 
she wanted a boiler  which functioned properly all the time.
British Gas didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. However, due to the delay in providing a 
response to the complaint and any unproductive visits, it offered Mrs B £80 compensation.  
Mrs B didnt accept this response and referred her complaint to this service in December 
2017. 
In January 2018 Mrs B had the boiler serviced  by a local heating engineering business.  The 
Service Completion Certificate said:
Boiler has water  leaks on joints to heat exchanger  and dripping down through  casing near 
electrical connections. Spark electrodes are bent with age and need replacing, both 
expansion vessels are flat and will need replacing. (BER) PRV pipe connected in with 
cylinder discharge pipe without its own tundidh.  Boiler  doesnt  have working  pump overrun.
Mrs Bs heating  engineer  later said, when asked for further comment  on the condition  of the 
boiler and heating system, went on to say:
I cant comment on the condition of the water  in the heating  system as it was not sampled 
by our engineers.  
The report   refers to several issues with both the current  condition of the boiler and with 
the standard of the original installation of the boiler.
These issues led him to recommend that the boiler  was beyond economical  repair  (BER).
I am surprised that these  issues were not addressed via your Homecare  contract with British 
Gas.
Mrs B gave her engineers  a copy of the photo of water  she says came  out of her heating  
system. It said:
The water looks very clear and you can see the black rings at the bottom of the tube, which  
is an indication that there  are no dissolved  solids  in the water. 
Mrs B has said from her point of view, if there was sludge in the system, surely  it would have 
stopped the boiler working at all. In addition, Mrs B said she was told the magna booster was 
Ref: DRN10006253installed incorrectly by British Gas.  Mrs B replaced  her boiler following the inspection by her 
new heating engineers.
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by two of our adjudicators. It was ultimately upheld by the 
second of these. British Gas didnt accept his findings and asked  for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for consideration. 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 May 2019,  in which  I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
Mrs B has mentioned she also had difficulties  with British Gas in relation to payments for 
upgrade works. As these  works werent done under the insurance product Mrs B has with 
British Gas, I cant comment  on these issues. 
Mrs B believes she received poor service from British Gas as it never  entirely fixed  the 
problem with her boiler and she eventually had to replace  it. She thinks that in not fixing  the 
boiler, British Gas is responsible for it needing to be replaced when it did  earlier  than it 
otherwise would have. I am not persuaded this is the case. I will explain why.
The boiler was already  12 years old when Mrs B bought  the house and, despite  the 
information she had at the time of the sale, based on her recollections, it would seem it 
already had problems. Mrs B has said it was noisy and sounded like it was dumping water 
at night, which she doesnt think British Gas ever investigated. In addition,  I note British Gas 
had to replace  parts  at the very first annual service  it did. 
The following  year there were numerous problems/breakdowns with the boiler and several 
repairs were done.  I also note Mrs B was told there  was a problem with the water quality in 
the system, which isnt unusual if a retardant isnt added  to the system. Whilst she has said a 
subsequent engineer said this was wrong,  I have seen nothing  in British  Gas call notes 
indicating this was the case.  I also note it was recommended a magna booster  be installed  
this is effectively a filter pulling ferrous based  sludge out of the system. This would indicate 
there was a consistent message from British  Gas about the condition  of the heating system.
I have noted Mrs Bs new heating engineers comments; however, I dont think  these indicate 
failings on the part of British Gas. Firstly, the poor installation wasnt  done by British  Gas and 
poor workmanship by another  business isnt something that would be covered by the 
agreement Mrs B had. So, I wouldnt expect the errors  to have been fixed by British Gas 
unless they affected the working  of the boiler or its safety. Even then, it would have  been  
work Mrs B would have  had to pay for separately.
As for the faults  which were found in January 2018,  given  it had been  almost 18 months  
since British Gas had touched the boiler and it was by that point  16 years old, I dont think  
the evidence is sufficient to show they were British Gas fault.  Indeed, the comments about  
the electrodes specifically say the damage is age related. 
I note Mrs B has said she was told by her new engineers that some of the works British  Gas 
completed were done incorrectly.  However, this wasnt documented on the report it 
completed or in its subsequent comments.
Overall, it seems Mrs B inherited  from the previous owners a boiler  that hadnt been  installed 
well and wasnt in the best state of repair when she bought her house.  It then deteriorated  
and, whilst British Gas repaired it and suggested  upgrades to help it cope, it continued to 
Ref: DRN10006254deteriorate to the point where repair was not economically viable. I havent seen evidence 
the boiler needed to be replaced  because of anything  British Gas did or didnt do.
In relation to the service Mrs B received,  I have considered her concerns and looked at 
British Gas records. I note there  doesnt appear  to be any record  of Mrs B questioning  the 
repairs or reporting that they hadnt  been effective until 2017.  If she had told it about the 
dumping water issue at an early stage  as she has indicated, I find it unlikely it would have 
taken over three years for her to question why it hadnt been fixed. 
It seems  that when problems were  reported,  British Gas attended when needed and fixed 
the boiler as soon as it could. I know Mrs B is unhappy she was unable to host her 
grandchildren on one of these occasions, but sometimes, especially during periods of high 
demand, resource  may not immediately  be available. I have seen no evidence  of the 
unreasonable delays in the handling  of her repairs.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mrs B received poor service from British  Gas or that it caused 
her boiler to deteriorate and need replacement.
British Gas confirmed  receipt of my provisional decision and said it had nothing  further to 
add.
Mrs B didnt accept my conclusions. She reiterated that her complaint was that the 
Homecare agreement wasnt fit for purpose because the boiler wasnt  reliable  and was liable 
to breaking down as the root cause was never addressed. She says she followed all of the 
advice she was given,  other than a power  flush (cleaning the system of any contaminants 
and sludge). 
Mrs B has indicated  that she considers the leaks and corroded/bent ignition electrodes  
discovered in January  2018 were the root cause of the problems  she had with the boiler  
why it wouldnt ignite  at times, as the electrodes were  faulty  and damp. In her opinion, if 
British Gas had done  a thorough service  previously,  these problems would have been 
rectified and the boiler would have worked  without any problems. She would  also not have 
had to pay for unnecessary improvements to the system.
Mrs B has said the age of the boiler  was incorrect on British Gas documentation.  It detailed 
that in 2014 the boiler was 12 years old. This is not possible  as the property was, at the 
earliest, turned into a residence in 2005.  So the boiler could  only have been 8 or 9 years old. 
She reiterated much of her previous statements and expanded on some.  
Mrs Bs position remains that there was no sludge in the heating  system and British Gas is 
wrong about this. She said the photograph  of water purportedly from the heating  system, 
which her heating engineers commented on, was drawn by the engineer, but she had to take 
the photograph. This is why it was not detailed in the engineers report. She also confirmed 
that a power flush was completed on the system  when the new boiler was installed.
Mrs B provided copies of some documents previously provided and some new ones 
regarding the visits and works done  by British Gas.
In summary  Mrs B believes  she has proven she received: poor service from British  Gas; its 
workmanship was poor; it left the boiler in an unsafe condition; and the problems were 
nothing to do with the age of the boiler (which was not as old as reported).
Ref: DRN10006255Following Mrs Bs submissions I reviewed land registry details for her property to see if I 
could establish  when it was converted for residential  use (and so the likely age of the boiler  
and heating system). It would appear  the first time the property was sold as a residence  was 
in 2002.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has highlighted a typographical error  in the background to my provisional decision.  It 
stated that Mrs B had referred her complaint to this service in December 2018, which is 
incorrect. It should have  read December 2017.  I would like to apologise to Mrs B for this 
mistake.
I have considered what Mrs B has said about the age of the boiler; the implication being that 
it was significantly newer than reported  and would have had less wear  and tear. However, 
the information from land registry records would  indicate the property was converted  for 
habitation some years  before Mrs B has recently  stated. Given  Mrs B believes its the 
original boiler, it would, therefore,  appear that the boiler was of the age British  Gas recorded  
it as being  around 12 years old in 2014. 
I acknowledge there was damage discovered  when the 2018 service  was done. However, 
theres no evidence  this was present the last time British Gas worked on the boiler. Nor is 
there evidence that it was wrong about the condition of the heating  system. Whilst I note 
Mrs B has said the photographed  water was drawn from the system by her heating  
engineers in January 2018,  I have  to take into account the engineer  said no water  was 
drawn or inspected by it, so it couldnt  comment on the state of the water.  Mrs B has also 
said the system was power flushed when  the new boiler was installed, which would indicate 
the heating engineers considered the system  needed cleaning at that time.
I have noted Mrs Bs opinions about  the works done, or lack thereof, by British Gas and 
those about the condition  of the heating system. However, they are not supported by the 
contemporaneous documentation or expert  opinion. I understand that given how long the 
boiler in her previous home lasted she wouldnt have  expected  the problems she had with 
this one or that it would  need  to be replaced  so soon  after she bought  the property. 
However, I still havent seen anything that indicates  British Gas did anything to damage  the 
boiler or cause it to need to be replaced  earlier than it otherwise would have. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
18 July 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1000625