K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining about the quality of repairs to his car that Aviva Insurance Limiteds  
approved repairer  carried out after he made  a claim on his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr S was involved  in a car accident  and he claimed  for the damage  on his car insurance 
policy. Aviva  arranged  for the car to go to one of its approved  repairers (the garage)  to be 
repaired. Mr S is unhappy with the quality of repairs  and says that the garage  has fitted poor 
quality rear brake discs.  He thinks that the garage caused further damage to the car while in 
its possession  possibly  by having  an accident while driving  it.
Mr S says that the brake  discs showed heavy signs of corrosion within  600 miles of him 
having the car back, which he didnt think was reasonable. So he thinks  that the garage 
replaced the brake discs with poor quality discs and it didnt apply any corrosion  protection  to 
them. He says that the discs fitted werent  manufacturer brake discs and he wanted  Aviva to 
replace the brakes with manufacturer quality discus.  And he provided Aviva  with a quote  
from the cars manufacturer to replace  them.
Aviva didnt think there was anything  to show that the garage had caused further damage. It 
said it wasnt required to use manufacturer parts. And it said that it hadnt seen anything to 
show that the brakes were poor quality. It asked him to provide an independent  report  in 
respect to the quality  of the brakes.  
Mr S maintained that the garage had caused  further damage to his car and used cheap parts 
to repair  the damage. He said that the damage  to the car was only a scratch,  so there should 
have been no need to replace the brakes. He says this shows that the garage had caused 
further damage. Aviva didnt agree so Mr S asked this service to step in.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that the garages  report says there was 
around three  hours of labour to repair the sill. But she didnt think photos showed  any 
damage to the door and sill. So she thought this suggested that the garage could have 
caused further damage to the car. So she thought Aviva  should pay for an independent 
report to inspect the car and pay Mr S £200 in compensation.
Aviva didnt accept the adjudicators opinion. It maintained  that the garage didnt cause 
further damage to Mr Ss car. It said the damage was to the rear wheel arch so to get the 
correct colour match  the door had to be painted  too. It said that there was damage to the 
wheel from the accident so the brakes  were replaced too as a result of this. It said that it had 
asked Mr S to provide  an independent report to show there  was an issue  with the brakes 
and he hadnt  done so.
I issued a provisional decision in march 2018  not upholding  this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Mr S says that the garage  caused further  damage to his car and repaired this damage with 
cheap non-manufacturer parts. He says this caused  his brakes  to heavily corrode within  600 
miles. Ive thought  about the adjudicators  thoughts that Aviva should  have to pay for an 
independent inspection. But I dont agree thats  fair for two reasons. 
Ref: DRN16896652Firstly more than two years has passed  since the brakes were  replaced, so I dont think an 
inspection of the car now would reveal anything. Secondly, and most importantly, its a 
fundamental principle  that the burden  of proof falls on the person claiming the loss to provide  
evidence demonstrating  the loss. So I think it was for Mr S to prove that the quality of repair 
was poor  it wasnt for Aviva to show that it wasnt.
Aviva has said that the garages internal records confirm the car wasnt  damaged in a further 
accident and the discs  and pads had to be changed  as the vehicle failed  a geometry test 
following completion of repairs. I can also see that the garage had to replace the alloy wheel 
following the accident, which I think supports Avivas assertions.  Its also explained that the 
door and sill had to be painted  to even out the paintwork. Im persuaded that this is most  
likely whats happened and its most likely that this damage was caused by the accident.  I 
ultimately havent seen  anything  to show that the garage caused further damage to the car.
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly  that the garage  fitted poor quality parts.  But the terms of his 
insurance policy sets out that Aviva doesnt have to use manufacturer  parts. And its for Mr S 
to show that it didnt fit adequate quality parts. The garage was entitled to fit aftermarket 
brake discs.  And, other than what hes told us, I dont think Mr S has provided anything  to 
support that the quality of the repairs werent of satisfactory quality.
I can see that Aviva asked Mr S a number of times to provide an independent  assessment 
setting out that the brake discs fitted by the garage were  poor quality. But he didnt do so. I 
think it was fair for Aviva to ask Mr S to provide this. And, ultimately,  I cant  say that Ive seen 
enough to show  that the garage caused  further  damage or poorly  repaired  the accident  
damage. 
If Mr S is able to provide  further evidence to support that the repair was a poor quality, Im 
happy to review it. But, based on the information  Ive seen so far, I cant say that Aviva has 
treated Mr S unfairly in this case.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  decision and he raised the following points:
1.He says photos taken of the car clearly  show that the alloy wheel was not damaged  at 
all. And he said it was a very small speed accident;
2.His car accumulated 6.5 miles while being in the garages possession.  And he 
suggested this may be why the garages  documentation  provided when the car was 
returned contained  no recorded  mileage;
3.He said, after examining  the replaced items  on the job card and estimated labour  hours,  
he became worried  as the cost associated with the accident claim could affect his future 
insurance premiums.  He said Aviva wouldnt tell him the overall cost of repair. And he 
says this is what prompted him to check the condition  of the replaced parts. He 
maintained that the discs were not new, which he says is shown by a photo taken when 
he got the car back.  And he says that there  were other, easy to notice, shortcomings in 
the garages work;
4.He said he noticed heavy corrosion within 400 miles  rather than 600 miles as I said in 
my provisional  decision letter;
5.He maintained that, unless his car was involved in another accident while being in the 
garages possession, the garage must  have  invented  a completely  unnecessary  scope 
of work.  He said if he had known  that a minor scratch  repair  was to be converted by the 
garage into such a major  repair he wouldnt have  claimed on his policy.  
Aviva responded to accept my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN16896653my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken Mr Ss comments  into account, 
but I dont think  hes added anything that he hadnt already provided before. So it doesnt 
change the decision  I reached.
Ultimately, as I set out in my provisional decision,  it was for Mr S to show  that the quality of 
the garages repair wasnt of a satisfactory  quality. Mr S was asked a number of times to 
provide an independent  report, but he didnt  do so. And, other  than his comments,  I havent  
seen anything to say that the quality of repair  wasnt of a satisfactory  standard.
Mr S says that the garage  drove his car for 6.5 miles. But this isnt unusual as its standard  
practice for a repairer to take the car on a test drive  especially after the brake discs are 
replaced. I ultimately havent seen anything to show that the car was involved in an accident  
while it was in the garages  possession.
Im persuaded that the car did fail a geometry test following completion of repairs, which is 
why the garage  had to replace the brake discs. I dont think this was unreasonable. I note 
Mr Ss comments that this was a very minor accident. But I still dont think the garage  acted 
unreasonably here.
I note Mr S is unhappy I said hed done 600 miles since collection  when  he first noticed the 
rust, but hed actually  done 400 miles. But in his complaint  form he set out that hed done 
600 miles.  Its arguable  that the fact that hed only driven the car between  400-600  miles in 
the six months since the repair  has contributed  the presence of the rust as more regular 
usage may have  prevented this. But, irrespective  of this, Mr S has given us anything to show 
that there  was a reduced performance  of the brakes,  or that they didnt have a fair lifespan.
So, while I appreciate Mr S feels strongly  about this, I havent  seen  enough to say that Aviva 
has treated him unfairly in this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1689665