K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs F bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a loan. They applied 
for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 120-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £67.40 
with the PPI costing  an additional £6.99 making  the total monthly repayment £74.39. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr F for accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr and Mrs Fs monthly  loan repayment  for up 
to the remaining term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months 
in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr and Mrs F was employed  as a database manager. Despite our request, he 
has not told us how long he would have been paid sick pay or what his redundancy 
entitlement wouldve been. As such I ve assumed he was entitled to statutory sick pay and 
statutory redundancy pay.  Mr and Mrs F said they had joint savings equivalent to just over 
six months of Mr Fs salary. Mr F have said he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2001.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Fs representative says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs F 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Fs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Mr and Mrs F about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs F 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN13960042Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint
This sale took place  in 2000 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bank  of Scotland at the time. So, Im satisfied  I should  take the ABI code 
Ref: DRN13960043and these other publications  into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs F with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs F, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs F 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs F 
and Bank  of Scotland, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN13960044did Mr and Mrs F know they had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr F signed on the loan application to specifically indicate he wanted PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs F knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Bank of Scotland has said that advice  was provided during this sale. 
This means  Bank of Scotland had to advise Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs F. It seems Mr and Mrs F cant  remember  clearly  what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Fs financial circumstances, but there is no specific  evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs F would have been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Bank of Scotland  considered 
whether Mr and Mrs F had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs F given their 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland advised  with reasonable care and 
skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I do think  its more  likely than not that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs F had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Fs ability to 
continue to meet their loan repayments would  have been put under strain if Mr F was 
not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy and 
sick pay benefits I have  assumed  him to be entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs F.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs F. 
There was nothing  about Mr Fs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim.  
Ref: DRN13960045Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mr and Mrs F 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Bank of Scotland was recommending to them and make an informed decision about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F were  given a broad description of what  the policy  was 
intended to cover (as the application form said that the policy would protect  their payments if 
Mr F was unable  to work through accident,  sickness and involuntary unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs F would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs F agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs F Im not persuaded Bank  
of Scotland did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs F. Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland gave 
Mr and Mrs F all of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed 
decision about whether to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Fs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Fs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Fs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs F about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs F has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry 
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Bank  of Scotland ought to have done either. 
Ref: DRN13960046What effect did Bank of Scotlands  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs F? To what 
extent did Mr and Mrs F suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs F. So, I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs F suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must  decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs F would have  still taken out the policy, had Bank of Scotland  
done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs F has suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Bank of Scotland had explained 
things properly, Mr and Mrs F would have acted differently,  or whether they would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs F says they wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs F had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Bank of Scotland advised  them  that 
there was a suitable product they could buy that would  protect  their loan payments  in the 
event Mr F was unable to work because of accident,  sickness  and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Bank  of Scotland told them the exact premium  at 
the point Mr and Mrs F applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs F 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Bank  of Scotland  at the time, or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs F would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Bank of Scotland made clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs F 
would get back  in return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr 
and Mrs Fs expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
Ref: DRN13960047sufficient to meet their loan repayment) were significantly  different  to what  the policy actually 
did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease. condition  or injury 
which Mr F knew about or which a doctor thinks he ought  reasonably  to have known 
about or which he asked about  or got advice, treatment or counselling about, from a 
doctor during  the 12 months  before  the start date which  recurred within  24 months of 
the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs F wasnt a permanent  employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr F be unable to 
do his own job, or any job which his experience, education or training reasonably  
qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs F from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to Mr 
and Mrs F should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence 
to suggest Mr F wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think Mr 
and Mrs F had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
F might reasonably have  expected.  But its unlikely  they would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs F from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs F, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs F had known they could only claim for disability if Mr F was unable to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr F was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that they would be able to take up 
another similar occupation or paid work  for which he was qualified would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN13960048Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  were Mr and Mrs F made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs F would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs F would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs F found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs F believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mr and Mrs F compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Fs representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Bank of Scotland  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
Ref: DRN13960049circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs F in a better  position than if everything  had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 August 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1396004