K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for 
curtailment costs under their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L were  on a multi-leg  trip abroad, when an airline didnt allow  Mr L to board a 
flight to Bali from Brisbane. They say the passport couldnt be scanned due to damage.  
Mr and Mrs L say they were advised to fly to Singapore, using a different airline, to visit the 
British Embassy. In Singapore,  they obtained an Emergency  Travel  Document (ETD)  from 
the British Embassy.  They  say the British Embassy then cut the corner  of Mr Ls passport to 
make it null and void,  so it couldnt  be used to travel. Mr and Mrs L were  able to continue 
their trip, having changed their travel  plans.
Mr and Mrs L made a claim for curtailment costs of around £7,500,  including  unused and 
additional flights and accommodation. UKI declined the claim and said there  was no cover  
under the policy  for damaged passports. It said the only cover available  would be if the 
passport was lost, stolen  or destroyed.
Mr and Mrs L complained  and argued the passport was damaged to the point it was 
destroyed, because  they were unable to use it. So, they felt the claim should be paid. UKI 
maintained that the passport was only destroyed by customs, so the expenses  Mr and 
Mrs L incurred were  because the passport was damaged,  which isnt insured. UKI did offer 
Mr and Mrs L £50 compensation because the decision to decline the claim wasnt  clearly  
explained to them at first.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept UKIs offer and feel their claim should be paid, so theyve brought  
their complaint to us. 
I issued my provision decision on 31 July 2019  and my findings are below.  
my provisional findings
The curtailment section  of the policy is designed to cover costs  incurred as a result  of cutting 
short a trip after it has started. It lists the insured events and what  type of costs  are covered 
if an insured event occurs. On review,  this section doesnt list passport damage  or 
destruction as an insured event. So, I dont  think the circumstances of this claim are covered 
under the curtailment section of the policy. So, I think UKIs decision to decline the claim for 
unused travel and accommodation  under this section of the policy  was reasonable.
However, the policy does  have  a section that relates  to passport problems and I think  its the 
only section that is relevant  in the circumstances.  It says:
Section K Lost Passport  or Driving  Licence
We will cover you for:
reasonable extra travel, accommodation and administration  costs  that you have to 
pay to obtain:
-evidence of your driving licence from the DVLA if your driving licence is lost, stolen 
or destroyed  while you are on your trip; or
-an Emergency Travel  Document if your passport  is lost, stolen or destroyed while 
you are on your trip; and
Ref: DRN11592772the cost of the Emergency Travel  Document.
The most we will pay
The most we will pay for each person is £750.
Mr and Mrs L say the passport was destroyed by damage at the point they tried to fly to Bali 
from Brisbane, as Mr L could no longer use it. However, theyve also said an airline  was 
happy to accept  the passport and fly them to Singapore.  They  say Mr L was stopped  at the 
border in Singapore and he wasnt allowed to enter with his passport. They  say Mr L was 
given a temporary pass, so Mr L could go to the British Embassy. However,  I dont think  the 
airline would  have allowed Mr L to fly to Singapore if the passport had been destroyed.  I 
think the fact that the airline allowed Mr L to fly to Singapore means its likely other countries 
would have let him enter. I think its more likely than not the passport  was only damaged at 
this point because  the airline was still able to identify  Mr L and use its discretion to allow Mr 
L to fly to Singapore.
Mr and Mrs L say the British Embassy cut the passport in the corner when they collected the 
ETD, and confirmed it was then null and void, so it could no longer be used to travel. I think  
this also suggests  the passport was only damaged up to the point that the British  Embassy 
cut the corner and it was this that effectively destroyed it.
The policy covers reasonable costs of extra travel, accommodation and administration  that
Mr and Mr L have to pay to obtain the ETD, if Mr Ls passport was destroyed. However, I 
think Mr and Mrs L obtained the ETD because the passport was damaged, as it was only  
in effect - destroyed  at the British Embassy.  So, I think  UKIs decision to decline Mr and Mrs 
Ls claim for additional travel, accommodation  and administration costs is reasonable, 
because I dont think these cost were incurred because the passport was destroyed.  
However, I do think the above  section provides some cover in this case. The 
abovementioned term is split in to two parts. Part one states UKI will cover reasonable costs  
for extra travel, accommodation and administration if the passport is lost, stolen  or 
destroyed. However, part two, in relation to the cost of the ETD, doesnt list any conditions 
that need to be met. So, I think the policy covers  the actual cost of the ETD and UKI should 
pay this.
UKI offered Mr and Mrs L £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience, because  it 
didnt clearly explain the reason it declined the claim.  Both parties accept there  was initially  
some confusion about whether the claim was covered or not. However, I dont think  UKI 
made the wrong decision and therefore  I think the £50 offer is reasonable. UKI should pay 
Mr and Mrs L £50 it previously offered.
I appreciate that this decision  will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs L. However, on review  of 
the policy terms I dont  think  the circumstances of this claim are something  the policy covers,  
other than the cost of the ETD.
the responses to my provisional  findings
UKI said that Mr and Mrs L had not made  a claim for the ETD and didnt specifically 
complaint about  UKI not paying for the ETD. As such, UKI feels the cost of the ETD 
shouldnt form part of my decision.  
Ref: DRN11592773Mr and Mrs L said they consider the passport to have been destroyed  by Brisbane airport  
and that it was the good will of an airline  to allow  Mr L to fly to Singapore, as there was no 
British Embassy in Brisbane. 
They also said Mr L was not allowed  entry to Singapore and he was only allowed special 
leave to attend the British Embassy.  Mr and Mrs L said the British Embassy  only cut the 
passport so Mr L didnt  have both a passport and an ETD. 
They feel the offer of £50 compensation is unreasonable considering the curtailment of their 
trip and the additional costs incurred. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr and Mrs L havent complained about  UKI not paying for the cost of the ETD, this is 
a cost UKI should  have considered during  the claim and during the complaint. I have also 
considered this under my fair and reasonable remit as an ombudsman. 
Mr and Mrs L made a claim for costs and presented circumstances of the loss. It should 
have been clear to UKI, as the expert  party, that the cost of the ETD was payable under the 
policy and I think it was unfair not to have brought this to Mr and Mrs Ls attention.  So, I find 
no reason to change  my provisional decision regarding the cost of the ETD. UKI should  pay 
Mr and Mrs L the cost of the ETD obtained  in Singapore.    
With regards to Mr and Mrs Ls comments,  and to be clear,  there  is no cover under the policy  
for curtailment costs caused  by a damaged or destroyed  passport. So their claim for costs of 
unused travel and accommodation  has been rejected by UKI fairly.
However, the policy does  cover reasonable extra travel and accommodation costs in the 
event the passport was destroyed. While I understand Mr L was not allowed in to Singapore,  
I find it unlikely that the airline allowed Mr L to fly to another country if it considered the 
passport to be destroyed. I think its more likely than not that it was the discretion of the 
airline and border staff whether to allow Mr L to fly and to enter a country. It may have been 
different in another country.
Even if I did consider  the passport to be destroyed by Brisbane airport, an ETD could have 
been obtained from the British Consulate in Brisbane. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs L have 
claimed for reasonable extra travel and accommodation costs  to obtain an ETD. As per my 
provisional decision, I dont think the circumstances are covered under the policy  terms and 
conditions. 
UKI offered £50 compensation for service  issues only.  This is unrelated  to the costs Mr and 
Mrs L incurred. As such, Ive not found reason to change my views on compensation from 
my provisional decision.    
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Ref: DRN11592774Pay Mr and Mrs L the actual cost of the emergency travel  document;  and
Pay Mr and Mrs L £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019.
Ref: DRN1159277