K821x#15complaint
Mr L says that Quidie Limited  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 4 instalment loans Quidie provided to Mr L between  October  2017  
and August 2018. Mr Ls borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountApprox.
Maximum
Repayment
1 05/10/2017 31/03/2018 6 £150.00 £39
2 31/03/2018 20/06/2018 6 £200.00 £53
3 30/06/2018 17/07/2018 6 £250.00 £67
4 25/08/2018 14/11/2018 3 £200.00 £89
Mr L says that the amounts of the loans he took with Quidie  were  small to begin with until 
they became more  and more with each  loan. And he says this only increased his debt. He 
says that if Quidie had asked  him for further information on his applications it would have 
seen he had a high amount of debt including multiple gambling transactions at the time.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ls complaint  and thought  that Quidie  shouldnt  have given Mr L 
any of the loans. As Quidie hasnt accepted this view the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Quidie needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quidie should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN16185412the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quidie was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Our adjudicator explained that he felt that the information Quidie gathered showed Mr L was 
having problems  managing his money. And that in these  circumstances,  he thought that 
Quidie ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr L would have been  able to sustainably repay 
the first  and any subsequent loans. 
Ive looked at the information that Quidie obtained  before  each loan. This included  credit 
reports which showed what loans  Mr L had outstanding. I can see that the report  Quidie 
obtained before granting the first loan showed that Mr L had in excess of 12 outstanding 
unsecured loans / advances against income. And that nine of these  were  taken out within 
the two previous months. The credit reports for the other three loans  were  not dissimilar.
I agree  with Quidie  that Mr L repaid his loans with it either  on time or early.  I also agree that 
he managed to substantially reduce his overall indebtedness, as revealed by the searches, 
over the period he had loans with Quidie.  But that doesnt mean that the lending  was 
sustainable. I think that, in the circumstances of this complaint, from the lending history 
revealed by the credit  checks Quidie undertook it should have concluded that Mr L was 
under serious financial pressure and was having  to take out loans to repay other loans. 
Rather than using them to meet a short-term  cash-flow problem.
So I find that Quidie  should not have made  any of the loans to Mr L.
Ref: DRN16185413putting things right  what Quidie needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on his loans  with it;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;  and
remove any negative information  about these loans from Mr Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie to take off tax from this interest. Quidie must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint. Quidie Limited  should  make 
the payments  and adjustments set out above.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1618541