K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  Honda  Finance  Europe  Plc (Honda)  misrepresented a hire purchase 
agreement she entered into.
background
In June 2016, Mrs L took out a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used car. Mrs L says 
she took out the agreement to enable her son to acquire the vehicle; he has failed a credit 
score and had asked her to come to the dealership to see if she would be willing  to take out 
the agreement  on his behalf.
Mrs L says the salesperson at the dealership informed her when her son was able to reach a 
satisfactory credit score, perhaps in two-three months; she could transfer the agreement into 
his name.  Mrs L says she felt under a great deal of pressure  and only agreed to take out the 
hire purchase agreement on the basis it could be transferred into her sons  name.
When she tried to carry out the transfer, she was informed this wasnt  possible. Mrs L was 
very unhappy with the situation.  She continued to pay the monthly payments but in July 
2018, she handed the keys back into the dealership and informed them  she had left the car 
parked on a public  house  carpark.  
When the car was collected, the dealership noted  some damage and the vehicle was valued 
at £1750. This left Mrs L with an outstanding liability.
Mrs L complained, she says there was no damage  to the vehicle when she left it on the 
public house carpark and disputed the outstanding  balance, but Honda didnt uphold  her 
complaint. It said it was a different business  to the dealership, and it didnt know  what  was 
said at the point of sale.  It also said it doesnt  accept transfers  to third parties and as Mrs L 
had signed all the relevant documents to Honda, she was liable for the outstanding balance.
An investigator looked into matters for Mrs L. She found that Honda has agreed to end the 
agreement early when  normally it would only do so once the outstanding balance  up to the 
half of the agreement is paid and only once  the agreement has reached the half-term point. 
But, in order  to assist  Mrs L it agreed  to collect  the car early.
She said she sympathised with Mrs L. She understood her son had an arrangement with her 
to drive the car and subsequently  pay the monthly  instalments and unfortunately, he wasnt  
able to keep to this arrangement.  But she didnt agree that this was Hondas fault, or that it 
had acted unreasonably.
She also didnt agree  that Honda should  waive the damages. She pointed out Mrs Ls 
responsibilities as detailed in the agreement and as shed left the car on a public carpark,  
she hadnt adhered to the terms and conditions of the agreement. She also noted the vehicle 
whilst valued at £1750 had actually sold for less at auction and this loss hadnt  been passed 
on to Mrs L. She concluded  Honda  had acted fairly and reasonably and so didnt ask them  to 
do anything further.
Mrs L disagreed. She feels very strongly  that the hire purchase  agreement was 
misrepresented to her and she wouldnt  have entered into it if she couldnt transfer it into her 
sons name. She asked  for an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN15586842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
by both parties afresh. I appreciate Mrs L will be disappointed but Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what  I think is more 
likely to have happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Because I wasnt present when the discussions took place between  Mrs L and the 
dealership, I cant be certain  of what was said. Theres  no contemporaneous evidence of 
what was discussed.  In the circumstances, I need  to look at the available  documentary 
evidence in order to determine whats more likely to have happened  at the time when the 
agreement was entered into.
I looked closely at the hire purchase  agreement. The agreement was a valid and legally 
binding document,  which  has been signed  by Mrs L, and, in doing so, she had agreed to be 
bound by its terms and conditions.
From what  Ive seen, there  isnt anything in the agreement  to suggest it could be transferred 
to a third party. Honda  has said it doesnt offer a finance product that allows a consumer to 
obtain credit  on behalf  of a third party, who is unable to obtain  credit in his or her own right.  It 
has also said it doesnt offer a facility to allow a customer to transfer an active agreement to 
a third party.
I appreciate Mrs L feels very strongly that the salesperson from the dealership  led her to 
believe she could transfer the agreement but Mrs L still had a responsibility  to read the 
agreement before she signed  it.
In clause 14 (b) it says:
..any dealer, broker  or manufacturer who has been involved in this transaction is not our 
agent and we are not responsible for anything they have said,  or done or not done  unless  
we have specifically  authorised it in writing..
If Mrs L entered into the agreement with the expectation of making a change, in this case  
transferring responsibility  to her son, I think  it reasonable that she should  have checked with 
the finance provider first. I understand Mrs L has said she felt under pressure to agree to 
take out the arrangement  but from the information  I have available its very difficult to 
ascertain whether that was from the salesperson or her son who was with her in the 
dealership and who wanted  to acquire the vehicle but was unable  to do so.
At the point of sale, the car registration was being  transferred into Mrs Ls name as the new 
registered keeper.  Mrs L was also the insured person on the GAP  insurance policy and the 
Ref: DRN15586843service agreement. The paperwork Mrs L signed and received is clear and not misleading. 
Had Mrs L read the paperwork later she could  have raised any concerns much sooner.
I dont doubt Mrs L feels  very strongly  about what was said in the dealership but Im afraid 
that doesnt negate  her responsibility to read through the terms and conditions  of any 
agreement she enters  into so Im not able to find any evidence  to substantiate the 
agreement being  misrepresented.
Mrs L has also disputed the damage  charges. She says she gave the keys back and 
informed the dealership  of the vehicles location.  It took around 5-6 weeks to collect  the 
vehicle but Mrs L maintains  there  was no damage  to the vehicle when  she left it.
The terms and conditions  are quite specific that the car must be returned in good condition 
for its age and mileage. If its not in that condition Mrs L may be required to pay the amount 
required to bring  it up to that condition. It also states  that Honda will collect the car directly 
provided that the goods return fees are paid first, but if Mrs L wished to return the car 
herself, they will provide  details of their nearest contracted auction  site where the car can be 
delivered. 
The term 8.7 also explains that:
 upon  the return or collection, the car may be appraised in your presence. Any damage 
will be identified  and recorded. An amount will be calculated that would be needed to bring  
the car to good condition for its age and mileage. Should you wish to dispute  this amount, 
you may arrange (at your cost) for an approved independent inspection to be carried  out 
within a specified  period.
Im afraid that by leaving  the car on a public house  car park Mrs L hasnt adhered to the 
terms and conditions of the agreement and as its not possible to ascertain when any 
damages occurred  Im satisfied Mrs L is liable  for the damage charges.
Honda had the vehicle  inspected on collection. The inspection report shows damages to the 
car totalling £2923.20. Honda also checked  the current market value of the car with similar 
mileage and age and found the value to be around  £3275. They have allowed for wear and 
tear and had the car independently valued. At auction, the value was given to be £1750.00.  
But, instead of charging the full amount for the damages detailed in the inspection  report,  
Honda only passed on the amount theyve lost out, which was equivalent to £1361.25.  Thats  
the difference between the value  of the car in good condition  and the price  the auctioneer 
quoted for the car. The vehicle also only sold for £1600 at auction and Honda didnt pass this 
loss onto Mrs L.
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support Mrs Ls claim of 
misrepresentation and Im satisfied Honda have  acted  fairly and reasonably,  given the 
circumstances, in trying to assist Mrs L so Im not going  to ask it to do anything  further.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Ref: DRN15586844Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1558684