K820x#14complaint
Mr Q says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr Q took out with a charge card in 1989.  Its been 
agreed that Allianz should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to 
Allianz in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr Q disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Qs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Qs complaint. Ill explain why below.
Allianz has sent us a copy of Mr Qs application form for the charge card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if he wanted to take it out. And there  is a tick in the 
box.
Mr Q has said the form was filled in by the sales person  and he just signed it. But if Mr Q 
didnt agree with anything  on the form, he shouldnt have signed it. So I dont  think  theres 
enough evidence  for me to say that the box was ticked against Mr Qs wishes.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think Allianz made it clear to Mr Q that he had a choice 
about the PPI, and that Mr Q chose to take it.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Allianz  gave  Mr Q any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to him. This means Allianz didnt have to check  if 
the PPI was right for Mr Q. But it did have to make  sure he got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr Q about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But Mr Q doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve  been 
entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant  he didnt  need to rely on any savings or other 
means he had to make his repayments  if he wasnt earning.
So it looks  like the PPI couldve  been  useful to Mr Q if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. And so I dont think better information  about the PPI wouldve put Mr Q 
off taking it out.
Ref: DRN17655092my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1765509