K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs B say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Santander hasnt  got copies of all the paperwork that was completed at the time of the 
mortgage. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by 
since the sale took place. But where  there  is limited  information, I will make my decision 
based on whats more  likely to have happened, taking  into account  the evidence available,  
what  both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
From experience I think the type of form used at the time of the sale would  have given       
Mr and Mrs B a choice about whether to tale the PPI and the level of cover  they required.  
Ive also seen copies  of documents and letters addressed to Mr B that confirmed the cover 
that had been put in place. And I note the policy remained in place for many  years so I think 
Mr and Mrs B would have been  aware they were  paying for the policy.  If it was something 
that had not been discussed or that Mr and Mrs B didnt want, Id expect them to have 
questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive not seen any evidence  that they did so.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us they were  told that the PPI would help their mortgage application 
to be approved. Pressure is a subjective issue and if Mr and Mrs B only agreed to the PPI to 
obtain the mortgage, it seems unlikely theyd have continued to pay the premiums for so 
many years after the mortgage completed. Santander has told us its representative should 
have advised  Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy. So I do think it is likely the advisor told 
them they should apply for the policy, but thats  not the same as telling  them they had to. 
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs B were most likely made aware the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although  I can 
understand why they cant remember this after so long.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
The policy was set up to cover Mr B. from what Ive seen  he wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.
Mr B has told us hed receive 12 months sick pay if hed become unable  to work. From 
experience it would be rare to receive  12 months  full sick pay particularly  as Mr B had only 
been with his employer for 3 years. But even if Mr B were  entitled to this amount of sick pay 
the PPI would have paid him a monthly benefit  in addition to his sick pay so I still think  hed 
have found it useful, particularly if he became unable to work for a prolonged period of time.
Ref: DRN14644272The policy would also have paid a monthly  benefit  if Mr B had lost his job. Meaning he could 
use any redundancy pay for other  living expenses.
Mr and Mrs B had some savings, but as they chose  to keep  the savings rather  than use 
them to reduce their mortgage I think the savings  were important to them. And the policy 
would have helped  them to keep the savings intact  if things went wrong.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.         
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to                     
Mr and Mrs B.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Santander said that the level of commission and profit share  it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr and Mrs B paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI premium. It also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr and Mrs B 
for any time they were out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs B say there have been  other court  cases  in relation to non-disclosure of 
commission where consumers have received everything back. So they think Santander 
should refund all of the money  paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is the law. But I also need to take into 
account relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Santander has made Mr and Mrs B an offer of compensation in relation to the 
level of commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA.              
But Mr and Mrs B want  Santander to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs B and their  complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress  for them. 
But there isnt anything about  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint or circumstances that suggest  the 
redress paid by Santander isnt fair or reasonable.
Ref: DRN14644273In this case I think Santanders offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1464427