K820x#14complaint
Ms T has complained over several years  about  the way The Royal Bank  of Scotland handled 
her business  and personal  banking. She has also complained  on behalf of her company, and 
that complaint  is being considered separately  since the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  
cannot join  complaints brought by different legal entities, such  as an individual  and a 
company controlled  by that individual. 
Ms T believes  that the way the bank treated her and her company caused the companys 
collapse (its currently in liquidation) and led to significant financial difficulties for her. 
background
As Ive indicated, Ms Ts complaint goes back man years, and shes raised various aspects 
of it, both with the bank  and with us, over a long period of time. The full background  and 
the many  different aspects to her complaint   are familiar to her and to the bank, and I dont 
propose to set them out in detail here. But, in summary, Ms T says that RBS failed to provide 
adequate support to her company to enable it to expand. Specifically:
It didnt provide  proper  communication.  
It failed to keep company records updated and so sent correspondence to the wrong 
address. 
It didnt provide  her with a relationship manager. 
It didnt treat her positively and sympathetically.
It withdrew overdraft facilities and replaced  them with loans.  
It removed her accounts from branch control.  
This is not an exhaustive  list of all aspects  of Ms Ts complaint (or those of her company), 
but provides a flavour of what her concerns are  in line with our role as an informal  dispute 
resolution service. 
As Ive indicated, this service has already  considered complaints that Ms T has made about 
RBS and arising from the same facts. And the bank  has considered several complaints as 
well  and in some  cases  agreed to some extent with Ms T and arranged  for accounts to be 
credited as a result.  
Ref: DRN17340672In issuing a final decision in February  2014  one of our ombudsmen  summarised  Ms Ts 
complaint then as being that the bank caused her financial  difficulties,  failed to treat her 
positively and sympathetically and caused the loss of business contracts. He acknowledged  
that there  was poor service (because the bank  delayed in moving Ms Ts accounts back to 
branch control) and awarded  her £300.  But he didnt uphold  the thrust of the complaint. 
In March 2016 a different ombudsman issued a final decision dealing with the 
communication problems  Ms T had experienced, including her problems  in contacting  a 
relationship manager and the confusion over her companys correct address for 
communication. He concluded that those  issues did not prevent Ms T from making  
payments. 
Finally, by way of further background, RBS has started court  action for the recovery  of 
money it says Ms T owes on her credit card account. Those proceedings are stayed to allow 
this service to complete  its consideration of Ms Ts complaint. 
One of our investigators  considered Ms Ts complaint but  to the extent he felt that he was 
being asked to look at matters we hadnt  already considered  he wasnt inclined  to uphold 
it. Ms T didnt agree with his conclusions and so the matter has come to me, as the final 
stage in our consideration of it.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, we can exercise our discretion not to consider a complaint which we have already 
looked at. As Ive indicated, we have already looked at some points that Ms T raises here, 
including her main concern that RBS failed  to support her company (or her personally), 
causing the loss of business contracts  and significant financial difficulty. Whilst Im not 
declining to consider those points,  I see no reason to depart from the conclusions that my 
ombudsman colleagues  reached on that issue in 2014 and 2016. I dont accept that the bank 
was the cause of Ms Ts business  difficulties (and indeed, her own evidence  points  to other  
challenges her company  was facing),  or that she was prevented from operating  her 
accounts. 
I believe therefore that weve already considered Ms Ts main complaint, but Ill touch on 
other specific issues shes mentioned.
Ms T says she used her personal accounts in part to fund her business, and that the bank 
should not have allowed that. Ultimately, however, that was her choice,  and it wouldnt have 
been right for the bank to intervene and prevent her from doing  so.
She says too that the bank forced  her to take out a loan to replace her personal overdraft, 
which shed largely  run up supporting her business. I can well believe that she felt under  
some pressure to do that, but the bank  was under no obligation to provide overdraft facilities.  
Whilst full paperwork relating to the circumstances in which  the loan was taken out is no 
longer available, it is apparent that she had the benefit of it. 
When payments to the loan account stopped, RBS registered a default,  but then removed 
and reinstated  it some  three years  later. Ms T said that was unfair. The bank agreed to 
correct the information (to show that the earlier default date), but not to remove  it completely. 
In the circumstances, I think thats fair. 
Ref: DRN17340673Ms T also raised  the issue of direct debit  payments  incorrectly made from her account.  But it 
appears that a full refund was made  in or around  2010, together with additional 
compensation, so I dont  believe  it would be appropriate for me to require RBS to do any 
more in relation  to that.  
I mentioned earlier that RBS had started court action in relation to a credit  card debt. Ms T 
has pointed out, correctly, that regulators  rules  say that a consumer  credit  lender (which 
would include the bank in these circumstances)  shouldnt start court action where  there is an 
ongoing complaint with this service. I make the following observations in relation to that: 
I must  have regard  to regulators  rules  in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. But a breach  of those rules doesnt necessarily mean  this service must 
uphold a complaint. 
The bank  has agreed to a stay of those proceedings while  were  considering  matters.  
It appears that the court action was under way by no later than May 2013  before the 
Financial Conduct Authority regulated consumer credit activity and before the relevant 
rule came into force.   
I realise of course  that these issues have been ongoing for many years, and Ms T has 
pursued them vigorously  over that time.  She may well continue to try to do so. But, whilst the 
bank and we have acknowledged  that some mistakes were made, we concluded some time 
ago that The Royal Bank of Scotland  was not responsible for Ms Ts overall  financial 
situation; I hope she might now be able to accept those conclusions.  
my final decision
My final dcision is that I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint and dont require 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  to do anything further  to put things right.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or reject  my decision 
before 26 July 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1734067