K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend her money.
background
Mrs B took out 7 Uncle Buck  loans between February 2016 and February 2018. Theyve all 
been repaid. Heres  a table showing more information:
LOAN TABLE
Mrs B told us that she was reliant on high cost lending and couldnt afford to repay her 
borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Our adjudicator thought it wasnt unreasonable that Uncle Buck  agreed the first four loans  - 
but he felt that loans  5 onwards shouldnt have given to Mrs B. 
So our adjudicator recommended that Uncle Buck should refund all interest and charges that 
Mrs B had paid on loans 5, 6 and 7. And he said Uncle Buck should remove  any adverse 
information recorded on Mrs Bs credit  file in relation to loan 5  and all information about  
loans 6 and 7. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with everything  in the adjudicators  recommendation  but it did 
make an offer to refund interest and charges on loan 6 in full and final settlement of Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
Mrs B has rejected this offer. So, as the complaint hasnt been settled, it comes to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. loan loan starteddate loan 
paidamount £ number  of 
paymentsrepayment  
amount
1 04/02/2016 29/04/2016 300 3 £145.96
2 03/05/2016 29/07/2016 450 3 £221.88
3 24/08/2016 30/09/2016 250 3 £107.63
4 09/11/2016 31/01/2017 200 3 £95.48
5 05/05/2017 31/07/2017 200 3 £98.48
6 01/08/2017 31/10/2017 400 3 £201.77
7 02/02/2018 31/07/2018 300 6 £97.14
Ref: DRN14278992Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mrs B could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it did before lending to Mrs B. It asked Mrs B to 
provide details of her income and to tell Uncle Buck what  she normally  spent each  month  
including what she was paying for other borrowing. Uncle Buck  also carried out checks  on 
Mrs Bs credit  file  and said it adjusted  the figures where it thought  it helpful  to try and 
reflect customers real life financial circumstances  as accurately as possible. 
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of those checks and Uncle  Buck said it was aware that 
Mrs B was paying an outstanding court debt and she had some other borrowing. But overall, 
theres not enough information shown to make  me think that Uncle  Buck should reasonably  
have decided that loans 1 - 4 werent affordable  for Mrs B.
Ref: DRN14278993The repayments that Mrs B agreed  to make on her first four loans looked  affordable  
compared to the income that shed  declared to Uncle Buck.  So given these repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time, and her borrowing 
history with Uncle Buck, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for Uncle  Buck to ask 
her for the amount  of information that would be needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable before  agreeing the first four loans.
But, I dont think that Uncle  Buck shouldve given loan 5 to Mrs B. As our adjudicator 
explained, a proportionate  check for loan 5 would  most likely  have  shown that Mrs B was 
having problems  managing her money. 
Ive taken into account that Uncle  Buck says:  Just because an applicant  has other short  
term loans outstanding does not mean,  of itself, that lending was unsustainable. And I dont 
disagree with that statement.  In Mrs Bs case,  Uncle Buck  relied on credit report information  
it saw at the time of loan 5 which it says suggested that Mrs B had capacity on her revolving 
credit limit and only a small loan balance,  which represented  around one third of her monthly  
take home pay.
But Uncle Buck could see that when  Mrs B applied for loan 5, she also had three other 
outstanding short term loans at the same time. Mrs B had first borrowed from Uncle  Buck 
over a year ago and she was still in need  of funds. And although there was a pause  in her 
borrowing before  loan 5, Uncle Buck knew shed been taking out short  term credit  
elsewhere. And it shouldve taken  properly into account that it seemed likely Mrs B would be 
using money borrowed  from Uncle Buck to repay  other  short term loans that were due  and 
there was a real possibility that loans from other lenders were being  used to pay her 
borrowing with Uncle Buck. So I dont think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck to conclude  
that it was likely Mrs B would be able to repay  this, or any subsequent  loan, in a sustainable 
manner.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mrs Bs lending  with Uncle Buck  to see if there was 
a point at which Uncle Buck  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle Buck shouldve  realised that it wasnt 
reasonable to lend more money  to Mrs B. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I think  that by loan 6 Uncle  Buck 
shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to continue lending  to Mrs B. I say this because:  
Uncle Buck shouldve been concerned that, even allowing for some  short  gaps in 
between loans, Mrs B had by then been  indebted to Uncle Buck for around 13 
months or so during  the 17 months  that shed been borrowing from Uncle Buck.  
So Uncle  Buck  shouldve seen that it was likely that Mrs B wasnt borrowing to cover 
a short  term or unexpected  money problem. Instead, it looked like she had ongoing 
cash flow difficulties.  And she had to keep borrowing each time to cover the hole in 
her finances left by repaying earlier loans. This suggests that Mrs B couldnt 
sustainably afford  to repay what she had borrowed without borrowing again. 
Ref: DRN14278994Ive taken into account that Uncle  Buck says between loans 6 and 7 there was a non 
borrowing gap of over 3 months  and also a gap between loans 4 and 5. But this 
doesnt affect my overall view. These  gaps  werent long enough to enable Uncle 
Buck reasonably  to say that Mrs Bs financial circumstances  had improved 
significantly. And it looks like its own credit checks showed that she was borrowing 
from other lenders  during the gaps when she wasnt borrowing from Uncle Buck. 
After loans 1 and 2, its fair to say that Mrs Bs loans got smaller each time  but only 
up until loan 6. Looking  at her overall pattern of lending, I cant  fairly  say that Mrs Bs 
borrowing significantly and consistently  reduced  over a reasonable period of time. 
I think it was apparent that Mrs B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she 
owed. 
I think that Mrs B lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time. 
the length of time over which Mrs B had been  borrowing  from Uncle Buck  was likely 
to have negative  implications on her ability to access mainstream  credit  and kept 
Mrs B in the market  for these high-cost loans. 
So, overall, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint about loan 5 onwards.  
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do 
refund  all interest and charges that Mrs B paid on loans 5, 6 and 7 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*
remove any adverse information  about  loan 5
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Mrs Bs credit  file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  
Buck must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN14278995my final decision 
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mrs B as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1427899