K820x#14complaint
Mrs L and Mr L have  complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them  a 
packaged bank  account, called a Plus account in 2008. 
Mrs L and Mr L paid a monthly fee for the account and received several  potential  benefits in 
return. They think that HSBC should refund  them  all the fees they paid, plus interest.
(In around  2010,  HSBC changed the name  of the Plus account to the Advance  account,  and 
in around 2014  it changed  the circumstances under which Mrs L and Mr L would have to pay 
the monthly fee. But, for simplicity, I have  used the term Plus  throughout  this decision, and 
I havent described the changes to the arrangements for fees, as they did not affect  what 
happened in 2008).
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint and didnt think  
that HSBC had mis-sold  the Plus account  to them. 
Mrs L and Mr L didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review their case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mrs L and Mr Ls 
complaint. Ive looked into everything  that Mrs L and Mr L and HSBC have told us or sent us 
about the case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs L and Mr L have  banked with HSBC for quite a long time. I understand that from around 
1990 until August  2008 they held one of its fee-free accounts. HSBC then sold them  the Plus 
account. They kept this until 2019  when they switched back  to a fee-free account.  
In 2008, HSBC, along with other  banks,  was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two 
ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only  (or non-advised)  
basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well as giving Mrs L 
and Mr L a choice,  I would have expected HSBC to tell them  about the Plus accounts costs 
and benefits clearly; and in an advised  sale I would also have expected it to check  if the 
account was a reasonable match for their financial situation. 
HSBC has told us that it didnt recommend the account to Mrs L and Mr L, but sold it on an 
information-only basis  during  a meeting at one of its branches. Mrs L and Mr L have  given us 
a few more details. They have told us that the primary purpose of the meeting was to apply 
for a mortgage, which HSBC granted, and that HSBS  advised  them  to buy the Plus account 
to get a particular mortgage deal, along with the other potential benefits of the account.  They  
have described  the other benefits of the account as perks. 
Its now over a decade since HSBC sold the Plus account to Mrs L and Mr L and I cant tell 
for certain  what happened during  the meeting. However, from what  Mrs L and Mr L have told 
Ref: DRN17857242us, I certainly accept that they believed HSBC  was recommending that they should buy the 
Plus account. So, I have considered this complaint to be about an advised sale.  
 
In 2008, the benefits of the Plus account  included  worldwide  family travel insurance and fee-
free cash  withdrawals from some overseas cash machines. HSBC also offered customers  
with Plus accounts better interest rates on some  types of mortgages, saving accounts and 
loans and overdrafts  than it usually provided  to customers with fee-free accounts. 
I understand that Mrs L and Mr L travelled from time-to-time and, as I have said, they were  
interested in a mortgage. I think that these two factors  alone  would have made  it reasonable 
for HSBC to recommend the Plus account  to them. But I understand that they also held 
HSBC saving accounts which qualified for extra interest through  the Plus account  and also 
used an overdraft which qualified for a lower  interest rate. 
Mrs L and Mr L have  questioned the link between  the Plus account  and the mortgage. 
Theyve queried whether the discount they gained on the mortgage turned out to be in their 
best interests in the longer term and have told us they were advised towards that deal at 
the time.
In this decision, I am only considering the way HSBC sold the Plus account  to Mrs L and Mr 
L. I know little about their mortgage arrangements and I wont  comment on them. But Im 
satisfied that HSBC was within its rights  to offer the lower interest rate to customers  with 
Plus accounts. And Ive already  said that I think it was reasonable for HSBC to recommend 
the Plus account  to them alongside their mortgage.  
Mrs L and Mr L have  also told us that HSBC glossed over the other benefits of the account.  
I accept that it may not have discussed  these other benefits  at as much  length as it talked 
about mortgage interest rates, but I think its highly likely that HSBC told Mrs L and Mr L 
about them. After  all, it was trying  to sell the Plus account and it was in its own interest to let 
Mrs L and Mr L know  what they could gain by buying it. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that HSBC told Mrs L and Mr L about  the fees for the 
Plus account, and they have told us that knew they had a choice to keep their fee-free 
account, albeit  with a higher interest  rate on their mortgage.
So, in summary,  Im satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC to recommend the Plus 
account to Mrs L and Mr L; and I think it probably told them  about the accounts benefits.  
They seem to have  known about  the costs and been  aware  they had a choice. So, I dont 
think that HSBC mis-sold  the Plus account to Mrs L and Mr L. 
For clarity,  I would like to add that as Mrs L and Mr L have mentioned their mortgage  
arrangements in this decision, but I havent  considered them, they are free to raise them 
further with HSBC if they so wish. However,  I cannot give them any advice about  this, or 
speculate on the likely  outcome of any complaint.
Ref: DRN17857243my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint about 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. I am not going  to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2021. 
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1785724