K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied under a hire agreement 
with PSA Finance UK Limited.
background
In May 2016  Mrs P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with PSA 
Finance (trading as Citroen Contract Motoring).
Mrs P experienced faults with the car in September 2017, including the engine management 
and urea warning lights illuminating and the nitrogen oxide sensor needing  replacement.  The 
dealership carried  out repairs but Mrs P continued  to experience the same  issues.
Due to the continuing issues and the number of times Mrs P has had to return  the car to the 
garage for repairs, Mrs P was unable to use the car for her business as a driving instructor  
which led her to suffer a loss of earnings.
Mrs P reported the issues to PSA Finance  in March 2018. She asked to return the car at no 
cost. In its final response, PSA Finance  said it hadnt seen any evidence  to suggest  that the 
car was of unsatisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. 
Mrs P wasnt  happy with the response. She voluntary terminated the contract and 
complained to this service. She wants the early termination charge of £275.76  refunded and 
compensation for her loss of earnings.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said there was evidence showing repeated repairs 
on the car. He said a reasonable  person  wouldnt expect to experience faults  of this type on 
a car which was brand new at the point of supply and which was serviced every 10,000 
miles. The investigator recommended that PSA Finance refund the early termination charge 
and pay compensation of £1000 for distress  and inconvenience.
PSA Finance didnt agree with the level of redress so Ive been asked to make  a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that following  the supply of the car in May 2016, scheduled  services  were carried 
out every  10,000 miles.  No issues were  reported  at the first two services in September 2016 
and April 2017. However, at the 30,000 mile service in September 2017, oil was found on 
the cam cover. The dealership asked Mrs P to return with the car after a further 1000 miles,  
which she did in November 2017. By this time,  the engine management light had illuminated. 
The dealership investigated and repaired the air intake hose.
At the end of November 2017,  another oil leak was discovered on the cam cover. 
Subsequently the urea warning light illuminated.  The dealership tried to repair this on four 
separate occasions during February  2018 but the faults werent resolved.
Ref: DRN17597142Ive noted that Mrs P waited for the dealership to repair  the car on each occasion that she 
returned to the garage with the car. Shes explained  that she did this because she had 
driving lessons booked.  The car was also needed  for client driving tests. Mrs P has 
explained that she wouldnt be able to use the car for a driving test with warning lights  
illuminated as the test centre would deem the car unfit. Its not clear  whether the garage 
offered a courtesy  car to Mrs P. Mrs P has explained that this wouldntve been acceptable in 
any event because her clients  would be unfamiliar with the car.
Looking at the available evidence, I think its clear  that there were faults with the car which 
the dealership  didnt  successfully repair. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to 
experience repeated faults like this on a new car which had been  regularly serviced  and 
which had covered average  mileage.  Because of this, I think PSA Finance should have 
allowed Mrs P to terminate the agreement without imposing early termination  charges.
Im concerned to see that the car was returned  so many times for repairs  in particular, four 
separate occasions during February  2018. Im satisfied that this would  have caused  a 
significant degree of disruption and inconvenience  to Mrs P, who was trying  to operate  her 
driving instructor business during this time. On each occasion that the car was returned I 
think Mrs P was disadvantaged because she was unable to offer driving lessons.
Im not in a position to award  compensation or damages for financial loss/loss  of earnings. 
However, I am able to consider  the impact that the faults  with the car have had on Mrs P. 
Because of Mrs Ps need  to use the car for her business, the impact  on her has been greater 
than, say, someone who wasnt reliant on the car to operate  a business. Ive also taken into 
account the number of times Mrs P had to return the car.
Taking all of these factors  into account,  I think the impact on Mrs P was serious  and 
warrants a significant  level of compensation for distress  and inconvenience.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold the complaint.  PSA Finance UK Limited should:
Refund Mrs ps early termination charge of £275.76
Pay compensation of £1000 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1759714