K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint against Retail  Money  Market LTD, trading as Ratesetter (Ratesetter), is 
that it refuses to remove a CIFAS  marker it placed  against him.
 
background
In November 2018, Mr S applied  for a loan with Ratesetter. In doing so, he inflated his 
income, and submitted falsified bank statements to support this. When  Ratesetter did further 
checks, and realised what had happened, it recorded a CIFAS marker against  him for 
application fraud. 
Mr J accepts that he provided false information, and doctored statements, as part of his 
application. But hes very contrite  about doing  so. Hes explained that at the time of the 
events he was vulnerable, suffering with a gambling  addition, and mental  health  difficulties. 
Although he didnt appreciate at the time that he was ill, he cant remember making the 
application, and doesnt believe he was in his right mind when he did so. He thinks this 
should be taken  into account now by Ratesetter.
He wrote to Ratesetter, explaining in detail  his situation, and providing an unreserved  
apology. He accepted that what he did was wrong, but hoped that with the information he 
could now provide, Ratesetter would agree to remove the marker.
Ratesetter said it couldnt do this. It said it had taken all of what  Mr S had said into account, 
but that its CIFAS  report was a factual one. And that in making the report it had complied 
with the four pillars that needed to first of all be met, as per the relevant guidance. So while  it 
was sorry for what Mr S had gone through, it said couldnt change  or remove  the marker.
Mr S didnt think Ratesetter had treated him fairly, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  at the evidence, obtaining further submissions from both parties,  and 
concluded that Ratesetter hadnt dealt  with Mr S unfairly in declining  to remove the CIFAS 
marker. So he couldnt uphold the complaint.
He explained  why the markers exist, what they mean, and what the criteria is for applying  
them. And he showed why he thought Ratesetter had met that criteria  and behaved 
reasonably. 
But Mr S didnt agree, and made  further  detailed submissions, in which  he argued that the 
four pillars  hadnt  in fact been met. 
Our Investigator  considered these further submissions carefully,  but explained that they 
didnt change his view that he couldnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr S remained unhappy,  and felt that his questions hadnt all been answered. So he asked 
for an ombudsmans  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN11287852Having done so, Im afraid I dont have the answer  Mr S is looking for. While I have genuine 
sympathy for what  hes gone through, and admiration for how hes managed  to turn his life 
around, I cant reasonably say that Ratesetter has made a mistake  or treated him unfairly. 
I know this decision will be deeply  disappointing for Mr S. Now hes made significant life 
changes, he wants  a fresh start and feels that with a 6-year marker in place that will hold him 
back. I entirely understand this. But while I cant dissuade him as to the impact  of the 
marker, I cant  say that its been placed  in error,  or that its been unfairly placed. 
Im conscious that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties,  and in my 
own words. Id like to explain to Mr S that Im not going to respond to each and every  point  
hes made in response to our Investigators two views. No discourtesy at all is intended  by 
this. But instead,  Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues  here, and which  our rules 
allow me to do. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
So if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored  it. Thats  not the case  
at all. Ive considered everything carefully.  But. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on each 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency. Mr Ss name has been registered  with it for application 
fraud, because thats - as a matter  of fact - what happened in November 2018.  Thats  not in 
dispute. 
Businesses have an obligation  to report application frauds, and Im satisfied on looking at the 
four pillar  criteria that Ratesetter had enough  to record  the CIFAS marker  at the material 
time. And I note Mr S doesnt argue that this was the case.
Mr S now argues that, with hindsight, the four pillars havent been met, one of which is the 
fact that a false application will lead to non-repayments of credit, and loss to a business. Mr 
S staunchly says that despite his personal  problems, and his addiction, hes never missed  
any credit  payment ever. And that had he been  granted the loan he applied  for, he wouldnt 
have missed those payments either.  Im not disputing that, as its quite true that none of us 
can ever be certain what would have happened, but Im satisfied that Ratesetter was justified 
at the time to hold that concern, and that even knowing what  we know now it still wasnt  
unreasonable for it to do so.
Mr S accepts that Ratesetter was obliged to make the report  it did at the material time.  But 
he now wants it to review  its position  given what hes said about his circumstances.  While  I 
can see why hes asking  for this, this isnt a situation  where  mitigation  is relevant. Its more 
factual than that. As a matter of proven,  and accepted, fact Mr S made a fraudulent  
application, and thats what the record now shows. To amend that record wouldnt be right. 
Once again, Im genuinely sorry to hear whats happened  to Mr S, and I wish him well for the 
future. But it wouldnt be fair or correct for me to ask Ratesetter to change  the report it made 
to CIFAS. To do so would be asking it to exercise a discretion  it doesnt  have.
I know Mr S will disagree, but my role is to assess the evidence and reach an outcome thats 
fair to both parties. I hope Ive explained here why Ive reached the decision I have.
Ref: DRN11287853my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1128785