K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the response  of Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited,  (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background
Mrs W was contacted by a company that supplied  and installed solar panel  systems. Ill refer 
to the company as M. Following a meeting at her home, Mrs W agreed  to enter into a 
contract with M for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing around £8,000. To 
fund this Mrs W also agreed to enter  into a 10 year fixed  sum loan agreement with Barclays  
Partner Finance  (BPF).
Mrs W made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA via her representative. The 
representative said that M had told Mrs W that the solar panels  would  be self-funded and 
that the monthly loan repayments  would  be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) 
income. But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments  had been  much 
higher than the income.
In its final response letter,  BPF agreed that the benefits of the solar panels had been  
misrepresented to Mrs W. To put things right it said it had calculated the potential savings 
and income to Mrs W from the solar panels  over the term of the loan. It then said it would 
restructure the loan so that she wouldn't pay any more than this over the original loan term. 
As Mrs W had settled  her loan early BPF said the total amount that she had paid was less 
than the overall  benefits she would receive  from the solar panels. And therefore, it wouldnt 
be taken any further steps to resolve  her complaint.
Mrs W wasnt happy with proposal  from BPF and referred her complaint to this service. In 
summary, the representative  said that BPF had overestimated  the benefits that Mrs W could 
expect to receive from her solar  panel system and that it should also make  a payment to 
cover the ongoing  maintenance of the solar panel  system.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. Following our involvement BPF 
made some changes to the way it calculated the potential income and savings from the 
panels. This didnt  change  the overall position  that the total amount Mrs W had paid was less 
than the overall  benefits she would receive  by way of savings and income  over the original 
term of the loan. It did offer to pay Mrs W £100  to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator felt that the offer put forward by BPF was fair. Mrs W didnt agree and said 
the solar panels  should be removed from her home and all payments she had made  to BPF 
should be returned to her.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case has been passed to me to review.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W says that she was cold-called and during a sales  meeting told that the solar  panels 
would be entirely  self-financing.  As neither BPF nor Mrs W disagree that the benefits  of the 
Ref: DRN11856802solar panels  were misrepresented, this decision will deal with what  I consider to be fair 
compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking into account  the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether it would be fair for Mrs W to rescind the contract with BPF and have 
all monies she has paid returned to her and have the solar  panels removed from her home. 
However, here I dont  think it would  be fair or proportionate to require the removal of the 
solar panels.  Rather, I think the fair outcome  here is to put Mrs W in a position where the 
panels are self-funding over the original  term of the loan. By allowing Mrs W to keep the 
panels, Im satisfied that she will likely benefit  from lower electricity bills and FIT payments 
going forward (i.e. after the term of the loan has finished).
Mrs Ws representative has said that BPF has greatly exaggerated  the overall benefits she 
will receive from the solar panels over the term of the loan. It has worked out that the 
benefits Mrs W should expect to receive  would be £7,363 whereas BPF has said they would 
be £10,636. 
The figure that has been provided by Mrs Ws representative is based  on the FIT income  
alone. BPF has included electricity savings in its calculation. So, Ive considered whether 
any electricity  savings  should be taken into account when arriving at fair compensation. 
Neither party disputes that Mrs W was misled  into thinking that her solar panel  system would 
be self-funding. On that basis  I need to decide  fair compensation. When  thinking  about that 
question, I think  its fair to take account  of the electricity generated by the solar  panel 
system. On the one hand Mrs W has to pay her loan and for any electricity used in addition  
to that generated by the panels and on the other  she can off-set those payments by the FIT 
payments and the savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels. I consider 
it would  be unfair to ignore the electricity  generated and used by Mrs W when calculating fair 
compensation.
I have carefully considered the calculation and methodology BPF has submitted to this 
service when working out the total benefits  of the solar panel system.
These are based on the actual performance  and estimated future  performance  of Mrs Ws 
solar panel  system.
BPF has set out that when calculating the estimated future  performance  of Mrs Ws solar 
panels, it will use a number of assumptions. These  include using a self-consumption  rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mrs Ws solar panels that she is 
expected to use rather than buying electricity from her energy provider. 
The self-consumption rate used by Mrs Ws energy provider is 50% and this is based  on the 
rate that has been set by the Government. The Energy Savings Trust website previously set 
out a table that showed potential savings under various scenarios depending on the location 
and the consumers lifestyle rather than a specific percentage.
It is clear that self-consumption is impacted by the period of time that someone  is in their 
home and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity their solar  panel system is generating. 
Ref: DRN11856803It is self-evident that determining an exact  figure  over the period of the loan is difficult. My 
role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and reasonable 
overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact science. 
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that this takes into account changing 
consumer occupancy habits over the lifetime  of the solar panels. Once the loan has been 
repaid, as it has in this case, Im satisfied that it is highly likely that Mrs W will continue to 
benefit from the system  as a result  of a reduction in her electricity bills because  of the 
electricity generated  by the panels  as well as the FIT payments.
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by BPF, including  electricity price  inflation, 
the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that these 
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual  
average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
The representative has said that BPF should  also offer Mrs W £4,200  to cover the cost of 
having the inverter replaced on her system  as the 10 year warranty  M provided at the time 
the panels were  sold is no longer valid.
Ive looked at the current information available on the Energy Savings Trust website. It says 
that solar panels  dont  need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter will need  replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the solar  panels  at a cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer  may have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime of 
the solar panels.  The proposed approach to put things rights for Mrs W is to make  the panels  
self-funding over the original term of the loan. Once  the loan has been  repaid, as Ive 
outlined above,  Mrs W is highly likely to enjoy  significant  benefit from her solar panel  system 
by way of savings and the FIT income going  forward.
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs.
BPF has agreed that as long as Mrs W can provide it with a copy  of her warranty,  and it can 
be evidenced that it formed part of the initial contract,  it will honour  the warranty.  This 
doesnt guarantee the outcome of any future claim but, if Mrs W experiences  any system 
issues within the original  warrantee period, shed be entitled to raise a claim under the 
warranty and BPF will consider it under the terms of the warranty.
Usually, when a business, in this case BPF, calculates the potential  income and savings to a 
consumer over the original term of the loan it means  that the customer, in this case  Mrs W, 
will have overpaid on a monthly basis. And I would expect BPF to refund any overpayments 
made by Mrs W including 8% simple interest from the date the payments  were made until 
the date of settlement. In Mrs Ws case she paid off the loan early. This means that she has 
ended up paying  less than the overall benefits she will receive from the solar panels.  In 
summary, this means that Mrs W hasnt paid more than she should have done and therefore 
there is no refund due to her.
Ref: DRN11856804Im satisfied that this situation has undoubtedly caused Mrs W trouble and upset and 
consequently Ill make an award  of £100  to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Ws complaint should  be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  should:
allow Mrs W to keep the solar  panels,  and;
pay her £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1185680