K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that his mortgage lender, Landmark Mortgages Limited:
- hasnt done enough to help him in his financial difficulty, and
- has applied an unfairly high rate of interest  to his mortgage account.
Mr J wants Landmark to offer him a lower  rate of interest or allow his mortgage to be put on 
an interest only concession to help him. 
background
In 2006 Mr J, and his now ex-wife Mrs J, took out a capital repayment mortgage with 
Northern Rock for around £90,000 over 35 years  having received advice from a broker.  They  
were purchasing a property for around  £100,000.  At the same time as taking  out the 
mortgage, they also took out an unsecured together loan  from Northern Rock  for £10,000.  
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage was taken  out on a two year fixed  rate of 6.14%. Once this rate 
expired in 2008, the mortgage  reverted back onto a variable rate which  their lender 
guaranteed would be less than its standard variable rate (SVR).
In 2008 Northern Rock was nationalised, and soon  after Mr Js mortgage  was transferred to 
NRAM. In 2016  Mr Js mortgage was transferred again to Landmark. Ive referred to Mr Js 
lender as Landmark throughout  this decision,  although Im aware that Mr Js mortgage has 
been with these other predecessor lenders at different times.
Mr and Mrs J separated  in 2011.  Since that time Mr J says hes asked Landmark  for help on 
a number of occasions. Mr Js said hes asked Landmark to switch his mortgage to interest 
only and to help him by lowering the interest  rate its charging him. But Landmarks said it 
couldnt do anything  to help. Mr Js complained to Landmark about  this. He received a final 
response to his complaint about  the interest  rate and lack of help in financial difficulty  from 
NRAM on 15 January 2016.  He also got a final response from Landmark about  the fairness 
of its interest  rate on 26 August 2016.
Mr J was unhappy with the responses hes received and brought his complaint  to us.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Js complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think Landmark  
had acted unfairly by not offering Mr J a lower interest rate. He also said the mortgage  
contract allowed  Mr J to take his mortgage to another lender if he remained  unhappy  with 
the interest rate he was paying. Our investigator  thought it was Mr Js personal 
circumstances that meant he couldnt move his mortgage elsewhere.
Mr J disagreed with our investigator, He replied  to say, in summary:
-why isnt Landmark offering new interest  rate products to its mortgage  customers?  
-his mortgage  is bad debt and that prevents him moving his mortgage  elsewhere like 
any other normal mortgage customer to another company;
-hes received a remediation payment recently on his unsecured loan and he 
considers this to be evidence  of Landmarks unfair treatment of its customers.
-Mr J says hes asked for his remediation payment  on his together loan to be used  to 
reduce his arrears  on his mortgage but Landmark wont allow this.
Mr J didnt accept our investigators findings so this complaint has now been passed  to me. 
Ref: DRN10333132During our investigation, Mr J has made a complaint about other new issues  to Landmark,  
and hes referred these further  concerns  to us. The new issues include support given to Mr 
J in late 2018/2019 and whether he can now use a remediation payment hes recently 
received on his together loan towards his first charge mortgage.  As I say, these are new 
issues. Landmark has given Mr J separate final responses on these  matters  in recent 
months. 
To be clear, I havent looked at these issues as part of this decision. Theyll  be looked at 
under a different complaint reference. I dont  think it would be appropriate  to delay this 
complaint any further while we investigate these new issues.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision, dated 20 June  2019 setting out why I thought this complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. My provisional decision said:
help  in financial  difficulty
Mr Js explained how difficult its been  for him to maintain his mortgage payments since he 
separated from Mrs J. Hes complained that when he asked Landmark to help by lowering 
his interest rate or switching the mortgage  to interest only, it wouldnt agree to this.
Ive tried to build a picture of what was discussed  at the time by looking at the contact history  
between Landmark  and Mr J in 2014, and in 2016.  
Mr J called Landmark on 2 June 2014 and asked for help. He was hoping  Landmark would 
agree to convert the mortgage to interest only to help him lower  his repayments. Mr J had 
been making his mortgage repayments for some time using  his savings. But he warned that 
his savings would soon be gone and hed no longer be able to pay the contractual monthly  
payment. Landmark  asked Mr J to complete  an income and expenditure. It also wanted Mrs 
J to do the same. The operator made a note that no interest only concession  could be 
agreed without the consent and co-operation of the other account holder. Mr J said he has 
no contact with Mrs J other than through a solicitor  so this was clearly  going to be very 
difficult for him to do.
I can see why Landmark would have been  concerned about  the other mortgage account  
holder. This is a joint mortgage, and in a subsequent call it told Mr J that there are 
implications for the credit files of both account holders if payment arrangements are agreed. 
However, I also sympathise with Mr Js position.  He is the one living  in the property and he is 
the person paying the mortgage to Landmark  each month. If Mr J had stopped  making the 
mortgage repayments, and the mortgage  fell into arrears, that position  would also be 
recorded on both account holders credit  history. Mr J was the person trying  to prevent that 
by reaching an agreeable solution  with Landmark. 
Two weeks later, Mr J spoke  to Landmark  again  and his income and expenditure was 
explored. Landmark agreed  to try and contact  Mrs J too. Its established that Mr J cant  
afford the mortgage  interest payments on his own, even if Landmark were to agree to switch  
the mortgage to interest only. The call ended  with Mr J deciding he will think about his 
options and try to contact  Mrs J.
Ref: DRN10333133In November 2014 Mr J calls Landmark  again. He tells Landmark hes been  off work with 
stress and that he cant afford to make  his monthly  repayments. The contact history says 
that Mr J declined  assistance and that he is now thinking about selling the property. 
Landmark sent him a leaflet about  the support it could offer through  the Assisted Voluntary 
Sale (AVS) process. I dont think it was unreasonable that Landmark sent this information to 
Mr J at this time, especially if hed established  he couldnt meet the mortgage  repayments on 
his own, he was unable  to work, and he was already thinking of selling the property. 
Mr J didnt call Landmark again until early 2016  and he seems to have kept up to date with 
his payments during this time without selling the property.
In February 2016  Mr J asks Landmark  for his mortgage to be converted to interest only or for 
him to be given a reduced interest  rate. Landmarks notes show  Mr J wanted to explore  a 
change of borrower application  at that time, and try to remove Mrs J from the mortgage.  
However, the notes  say that once Mr J met with an advisor to explore this process  this 
wasnt what he wanted and the application wasnt  completed. Mr J at that time is recorded 
as saying he wanted to sell the property.  
Having looked  carefully at records  from the time, I dont  think there is enough evidence to 
support Mr Js recollection that Landmark wouldnt help him in his financial difficulties in 
2014 or in 2016.
I sympathise with the problems that Mr J faced prioritising his mortgage  repayments in 
challenging circumstances and over a long period of time. Im mindful  of the sacrifices hes 
explained he had to make  to keep paying  his mortgage in full. While acknowledging this 
dilemma for Mr J, I also dont think there  were many  options open for Landmark  to consider 
at the time. Any material change  to the mortgage would have required the consent of the 
other mortgage account holder. There were  no lower interest rates  available  to any 
customers, and Mr Js finances were under significant pressure.
In 2014 Landmark looked into Mr Js situation  in detail to see what  he could afford  each 
month. At that time, even  if switching the mortgage  to interest only,  the payments didnt 
seem affordable. I wouldnt expect a responsible  lender to agree a payment arrangement  if it 
doesnt look to be affordable.  Especially if there  is no sign in the medium  term of the 
situation improving  or the mortgage  becoming  affordable in the near future. Thats  because  
when an interest only arrangement comes to an end, the capital still has to be repaid over 
whats now a shorter time.  An interest  only arrangement  for the short or medium term can 
increase the monthly payments over the longer  term, and so it wouldnt generally be the right 
thing to do unless  theres  a real prospect of Mr Js situation improving.
This mortgage was taken  out on a joint basis. Its clearly been a real struggle for Mr J to 
manage the repayments on his own. Its a credit to Mr J that hes managed  to do this for so 
long by making other sacrifices. If Landmark  had agreed to convert  the mortgage to interest  
only, or to give Mr J a payment break,  I think this could arguably only have been in Mr Js 
best interests on a short term basis to enable him to sell the property  or until some  
improvement in Mr Js position.  The long term nature of Mr Js difficulties suggests that 
switching the mortgage to interest only wouldnt necessarily have improved the position he 
now finds himself in. 
My provisional decision is that this part of the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Ref: DRN10333134I imagine that Mr J will have already had advice and support from a debt counsellor. Its 
really important that Mr J does get advice to help him to manage his borrowing and to make 
sure hes getting access to all the help hes entitled  to.
is it fair that Landmark  isnt offering any new interest  rate products?  
Mr Js unhappy that hes trapped with Landmark- and as a result hes stuck on an interest 
rate which he thinks is unfairly high.  He wants Landmark to offer more competitive rates of 
interest to him as one of its existing customers,  like other banks do. 
Typically if Mr J was unhappy with the rate of the SVR hed be able to apply for a new 
interest rate product  with this lender or remortgage  elsewhere. Im aware  there isnt an early 
repayment charge  (ERC)  anymore that would  prevent him moving this mortgage. The last 
fixed rate product (with  an ERC) that applied to this mortgage expired in 2008.  However  Mr 
Js been unable  to move  his mortgage because of other  reasons.  His financial situation has 
changed a great deal since  taking  out the mortgage in 2006,  including  his separation from 
Mrs J. Mr J has recently changed career  after a period of study. His sole income may be 
lower than when  he and Mrs J took out this mortgage on a joint basis  in 2006. There  are 
clearly practical barriers that would prevent Mr J from being able to move  his mortgage to 
another lender, such as getting  the consent  of Mrs J. 
Because Mr J cant go elsewhere,  hes complained that Landmark isnt making new interest 
rate products available to its customers. Landmarks told Mr J that its not an active  lender 
and it isnt offering  any new interest rates or further  lending to any of its customers. 
Landmark (and the predecessor lender NRAM) has also explained to us, in considerably 
more detail than it gave to Mr J, the reasons  for this. 
There are competition laws which  prevent  a government-owned lender being in direct  
competition with other banks. For this reason, when Mr Js mortgage was managed  by the 
state-owned NRAM, it says it couldnt offer new rates. And, to that extent,  it wasnt treating 
Mr J any differently to any of its other customers. 
But that isnt the reason that Landmark  isnt making  new interest rate products available  to 
Mr J. Landmarks  said its not an active lender, and it isnt trying  to attract new customers 
through offering low rates. It says its taken a commercial decision in the interests of the 
financial management of its business  to maintain all its customers on the SVR once their 
previous interest  rate products expire. To that extent, its not treating Mr J any differently to 
any of its other customers.  
I can see why Mr J is frustrated by Landmarks  commercial decision and why hes 
challenging this. Ive looked carefully  at Mr Js mortgage agreement. Theres  nothing in Mr 
Js mortgage agreement  that says hes entitled  to a new rate  and thats  also true of most 
other lenders mortgage agreements too. Theres also nothing in the regulators rules that 
requires Landmark  to offer new interest  rates. 
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  I do that by taking into account the law, regulators rules  and 
guidance, and good industry  practice   but ultimately Im not constrained  by them  if I think  
fairness requires me to do something else. Ive thought  carefully about whether its fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances that Landmark wont  offer Mr J a new interest  rate thats 
lower than its SVR.
Ref: DRN10333135Through no fault of his own, Mr J has ended up with a closed  book lender that doesnt offer 
new rates.  Landmark  is his lender,  and legitimately so. Its decided not to offer new interest 
rates to any customers,  including  Mr J. Under current law and regulations, thats a decision 
Landmark is entitled to take.  
But in this case, Mr Js worried that he wont be able to move his mortgage  to another 
lender. There are a number of aspects of Mr Js specific financial situation that make me 
think it would  be difficult for him to move his mortgage to another  lender. Even if Landmark 
did offer new interest rate products, he may still struggle to commit to a new interest rate 
product with an ERC without the agreement  of the other mortgage account  holder.  
While I appreciate Mr Js frustration that Landmark has decided not to offer new interest rate 
products to its customers, I dont uphold this part of his complaint.
is the mortgage interest being charged to Mr Js mortgage unfairly high? 
Mr J took out the borrowing in 2006  on a two year fixed rate of 6.14% until 1 December 
2008. Since December  2008 Mr Js mortgage has been on a variable rate which I will call the 
Guaranteed Rate (GR). Northern Rock described  the GR in the mortgage  offer as being a 
variable rate guaranteed  to be below Northern Rocks SVR for the remaining term of the 
mortgage. From the information provided  to me it appears that the GR has tracked NRAMs 
SVR and then Landmarks SVR at a discount  of 0.01%. Mr Js mortgage has been  on an 
interest rate of around 4.50% to 5.00% over the period  complained about. 
Mr Js said he thinks its unfair because prevailing  interest rates, such as the Bank of 
England base rate, have fallen and yet his lender hasnt always chosen to pass  such 
reductions on to its SVR. In particular  he refers to a time in 2016 when Landmark chose not 
to pass a 0.25% reduction in Bank of England base rate to its mortgage  customers.
It is true that the margin, or differential, between Bank of England  base rate and Landmarks 
SVR hasnt remained the same. In particular, as Bank of England base rates  fell to record  
low levels, Landmark (and the predecessor lenders)  SVR didnt fall at the same  rate. Ive 
looked at the mortgage  documentation to see whether Northern Rock ever said that it would 
in the mortgage agreement. 
There arent any guarantees  or references in the mortgage documentation that say the SVR 
or GR will track Bank  of England base  rate. In Clause  7.1 of Northern  Rocks  Mortgage Offer 
General Conditions Edition 3 (2/2005), it says the lender  can reduce the SVR at any time. 
But it doesnt make  a commitment to do so if prevailing interest rates fall, and it doesnt say 
that the SVR must track Bank of England  base  rate. Clause 7.2 lists a number of reasons 
why the lender may choose  to increase SVR. The reasons given include a general trend to 
increase interest  rates on mortgages generally  or mortgages similar to yours, for good  
commercial reasons and to maintain  a prudent level of profitability.  But, again there is no 
commitment to track  Bank of England base rates.
Ive also thought about the level of interest thats been applied  to Mr Js mortgage.  As Ive 
said above, Mr J was charged interest  at around  4.5% to 5.0% since his last fixed rate 
expired in 2008. Overall I dont think this interest  rate is out of line, or unreasonably higher, 
than other  lenders SVRs  over the same  period  of time. 
Ref: DRN10333136I appreciate that there are practical barriers that now prevent Mr J from being  able to move 
his mortgage elsewhere, but I dont think these events that could have been  foreseen when 
the contract  was entered into, by either the lender or Mr J. Overall, while I know how 
disappointing my provisional decision will be for Mr J, I dont think Landmark (or the 
predecessor lenders) acted unfairly in the level of the SVRs set or the way interest  has been 
applied to Mr Js mortgage.
my findings
Landmark has said it has no further comments to make following my provisional decision.  Mr 
J replied to say hes noticed  lies, deceit and discrepancies on the part of NRAM/Landmark. 
However Mr J said, if I could honestly say Id done everything I could to help him, then he 
had no further  comments to make in response to my provisional decision.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and further arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand why Mr J is 
disappointed with my conclusions and I see why he feels hes been unfairly treated by his 
mortgage lender.  While Im sympathetic to Mr Js situation and I see his dilemma, my 
decision remains unchanged. I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons already given.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1033313