K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained Payzone UK Limited is pursuing him for payment of a hire agreement 
for a card terminal which he didnt take out.
background
In June 2018 Mr R got a visit from a sales representative of Payzone. This was essentially a 
cold call as Mr R hadnt arranged anything. The agent offered him 30% savings on his 
existing card terminal arrangements.  Mr R wasnt interested. Mr R was then busy  taking a 
delivery and had to go.
He found out soon  after from his bank that a hire agreement for a card terminal had been 
taken out in his name. He cancelled the direct debit and contacted  Payzone. He was upset  
at how they treated him. He felt theyd taken no notice of what he was saying:
Hed not taken  out the agreement;  and
The signature on the agreement wasnt his.
As Payzone  continued to believe we have no reason  to believe that it was not yourself  that 
signed to agree to the Hire Agreement  with Payzone, Mr R brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the evidence. She felt the signature on the hire agreement,  
supposed to be Mr Rs, was sufficiently different to a recent signature on a licence that 
Payzone had obtained  as proper ID. She also noted Mr Rs business  already had a card 
terminal arrangement  so wasnt sure why hed enter  into another  agreement. She asked  
Payzone to cancel  the agreement; remove any reference to it from Mr Rs credit  record  and 
pay him £250 for their treatment of him.
Payzone didnt  agree  with this outcome. They  provided additional information which 
suggested Mr R had entered  into the agreement, including a copy of a signed direct debit 
agreement. Our investigator believed that regardless of whether Mr R had signed the 
agreement or not, hed contacted Payzone within 14 days  to cancel the hire agreement.
Payzone still didnt  agree  this was right as their terms and conditions  only specified a five 
day period to cancel.  Theyve asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
There is really  only one issue at the heart of this complaint.  Did Mr R agree to a hire 
agreement for a card terminal with Payzone or not?  
To help me reach a conclusion,  Ive reviewed the evidence which includes Mr Rs testimony.
The main  issues I have  considered include:
Ref: DRN19346952Mr Rs runs a partnership  with a different company name.  The hire agreement  
suggests he is a sole proprietor with the company having his name.  This isnt the 
case;
The signature on the hire agreement doesnt look like Mr Rs. I am generally  loath to 
make judgements on signatures  being faked or otherwise as we are not signature 
experts. But the neat controlled signature  on the hire agreement thats supposed to 
be Mr Rs seems to be a better match to the agents signature than Mr Rs;
The circumstances around  this agreement and whether  Mr R agreed to a visit or not 
remains in dispute. Mr R says he didnt agree to an appointment on 26 June  whereas 
Payzone say thats what their records show. Ive noted this but to be honest, this 
hasnt played  a crucial part in my decision;
Mr Rs story about what happened in his business premises  on the day he got a visit 
from Payzones agent hasnt changed. He got pulled away to manage a delivery.  
When hed finished, the agent  was no longer on the premises;
I think there is a possibility that the agent and Mr R may have been halfway through  
agreeing a card terminal agreement. It does look as if Mr R may have signed the 
direct debit  instruction.  Mr R then got busy.  Whilst he was missing, the agent 
completed the rest of the paperwork  by using what information hed already gleaned 
from Mr R. That is certainly one scenario to explain what  happened but possibly not 
the only option;
This doesnt mean that Mr R agreed  or signed the hire agreement. I dont believe the 
evidence shows this to be the case;
Payzone sent a copy of the agreement to Mr R using his correct business email.  
They imply this means  he knew and consented  to the agreement. Im not sure this is 
really the case. In fact Mr R got in touch  with Payzone pretty swiftly to complain when 
he found out a direct  debit instruction had been  lodged with his bank;
Mr R also contacted  his local police as he was so concerned about what  had 
happened with Payzone; and
There has been a flurry  of contact from Payzone to Mr R throughout this saga, 
including a number  of texts about  the growing debt which Mr R has found upsetting 
and concerning.
Overall I dont believe theres enough evidence to show Mr R did sign or agree to the hire 
agreement. This means Payzone cant ask him to pay for any of the costs relating to it. 
During this dispute  Payzone has registered  a default on Mr Rs credit  record which theyll  
also need to rectify.
Ill also ask Payzone  to check that any payments theyve taken from Mr R are repaid along  
with 8% simple interest. I dont think any payment was taken as Mr R made sure his direct  
debit was cancelled  but I cant be sure based on what Ive seen.
Im aware Payzone feel theyve done  nothing wrong and object to paying Mr R any 
compensation as our investigator requested. Ive thought  about  this specifically. When we 
look at what compensation is payable we consider  the impact any dispute has on the 
individual. So Ive looked  at Mr Rs age and the distress this has caused  him for what  is now 
a year and a half. Having considered everything, I agree £250 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Payzone UK Limited to:
Ref: DRN19346953Cancel  the hire agreement in Mr Rs name;
Repay  any money that has been paid under  this agreement  along with 8% simple 
interest from the date the money was paid until the date of settlement;
Remove  any reference  to this agreement from Mr Rs credit  record,  including the 
adverse information; and
Pay Mr R £250 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1934695