K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that the new television offered by AXA Insurance  UK Plc is not a like-
for-like replacement of their damaged one, as set out in their insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J made  a claim under  their home  contents insurance for a television that was 
accidentally damaged.
Mr and Mrs J say that AXA made offers of various different televisions, all of which  are not 
like-for-like replacements.  They say they should  get a Sony OLED television to replace  their 
damaged Sony 3D television. 
Mr and Mrs J also say that one of the televisions  previously offered would have less of a 
warranty than they had on their original  television. They were also unhappy with the 
customer service  they received from AXA.
AXA say they initially offered an LG or Samsung  replacement of similar specification  but 
following contact from Mr J, made an offer of a Sony television with a similar  specification  to 
the original set.    
AXA say they recognised  that their customer service  fell short  of what should be expected  
and paid £25 compensation  to Mr and Mrs J in recognition of this.    
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept AXAs offer of the television and brought  their complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  think that AXA needed to do anything further because they had 
offered a suitable  replacement television and an adequate amount of compensation for the 
poor customer service. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree because they say the television  offered is not of the same  high 
specification as the original purchased. They asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have not upheld  the complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs J say they bought their television in 2013 for approximately  £1,700 and that it 
was close to top-of-the-range at the time. Whilst they accept that 3D televisions are no 
longer manufactured,  they feel that the televisions offered as replacements  are mid-range 
models.
Having seen Mr and Mrs Js insurance policy, it says the following under How we settle 
claims:
We can choose to repair, reinstate or replace  the lost or damaged property, 
however, you can decide  to have a settlement of cash, or cash equivalent (including 
vouchers and/or storecards), instead.   
Ref: DRN17496242In my judgment,  AXA has offered  a choice of televisions of equivalent specification, albeit 
without 3D functionality, to replace the damaged television. I note that the first products 
offered were  an LG set and a Samsung with curved screen technology. Mr and Mrs J felt 
that both products were not appropriate  replacements. AXA then made a further offer of a 
Sony with Ultra 4K technology. I can see from the specification comparisons between the old 
television and new, that the one offered is similar, and with significant improvements  in 
certain areas, to the damaged television.  I appreciate it does not have  3D capability but, as I 
have already said, this technology is no longer available  and Mr and Mrs J accept this. I 
think the Ultra 4K technology sufficiently  compensates for the loss of 3D functionality. 
I accept that the television  offered costs less than Mr and Mrs J say they paid for their 
television in 2013.  But I think  this is understandable given that technology  develops  over 
time and prices inevitably reduce as new technology replaces previous technology. This 
means that what was top of the range five or six years ago is likely to be standard  or 
obsolete now, with equivalents available at a lower price. For these reasons I think  that the 
Sony Ultra 4K set is, so far as reasonably  possible,  of similar quality and specification to the 
damaged television. 
The Sony OLED television Mr J has suggested as a more suitable replacement  would,  in my 
view, be too much of an upgrade on the original television. I say this because OLED 
technology is a more advanced  specification  than the original television had. The aim of 
insurance is to put you back  in a position  you would have been in before the incident 
occurred. I am satisfied the offer of the Sony Ultra 4K television would do this. For these  
reasons, I think that AXA has acted  fairly  and reasonably in making its offer to Mr and Mrs J.   
Mr and Mrs Js insurance policy also says the following with regard to when AXA agree to 
pay cash or a cash equivalent to settle a claim 
the amount  we pay will reflect:
any discounts we may have  received  had we replaced your contents
AXA offered  to settle Mr and Mrs Js claim by issuing a voucher  for £1,049  or a cash  
settlement of £944.10. I note that these  offers do not deduct  the amount  of excess payable.  
I think these are reasonable  alternate offers because they reflect  the discounts AXA would 
have received if they replaced the television (which the insurance contract permits).
Regarding the shorter warranty  on the Samsung television, I think  that this is no longer 
relevant because AXA has offered a replacement Sony television. In any event, it seems that 
a lesser warranty would probably be regarded as an uninsured consequential loss and 
therefore outside the scope of cover. Contents  cover  insures  loss or damage to chattels 
(i.e. physical  possessions)  rather than choses in action (i.e. intangible legal rights over the 
possessions, such as the right to sue or claim under warranty).  The policy terms and 
conditions contain  an exclusion clause to this effect:  
General exclusions  what  is not covered
Additional loss or expenses
Other loss, damage  or additional expense following on from the event for which  you 
are claiming. Examples of such loss, damage  or additional expense  are costs 
incurred in preparing  a claim or loss of earnings following your bodily  injury  or 
illness.
Ref: DRN17496243I believe a warranty that was lost or reduced as a result of the occurrence of the insured 
event would fall within such an exclusion  clause.  We can compensate consumers for the 
reasonably foreseeable consequences of a businesss  wrongful acts or omissions; but not 
for the contractually-excluded consequences that result just because  an insured peril such 
as accidental damage has occurred.  
I think that AXA has acted  fairly  in making  an offer of a new Sony  television of a similar 
specification to replace  the damaged one. And also in apologising and offering £25 
compensation for the distress  or inconvenience  caused by their relatively  minor  
maladministration of the claim, such as not managing it better or confirming the 48-hour call-
back times.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, AXA Insurance UK plc has acted correctly in line with 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Js policy.  They  have  already made an offer of a like-for-like 
replacement for the damaged television or alternatively to pay £1,049 in vouchers or 
£944.10 in cash. They have also made an offer of £25 to Mr and Mrs J for the poor customer 
service experienced.  I think these  offers are fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that AXA Insurance UK plc should, subject to all relevant policy terms and 
conditions (e.g. excesses,  item limits, etc), pay either the voucher or cash settlement, or 
replace the television within 28 days of receiving  notification from Mr and Mrs J of which  
option they prefer. AXA should also pay the £25 compensation offered for poor customer 
service. 
Mr and Mrs J can accept the offer by accepting my decision  and indicating  their preference 
for cash,  vouchers or a replacement. However,  they should note that accepting  the decision 
makes it legally binding  on both parties, so they wouldnt then be able to take legal action 
over these matters. If they reject  the decision,  it wont be binding and their legal rights  will 
remain intact. But, strictly speaking, an offer isnt binding until acceptance of it is 
communicated  so Mr and Mrs J would  then need  to contact AXA themselves to finalise  
settlement.    
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1749624