K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about the whole of life policy she took out with Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada  (U.K) Limited  (Sun Life). She feels the policy has been  lapsed unfairly 
and without notice  as she says he never received any notification that this could happen.
background 
Mrs A took out a whole  of life policy in 1997.  The initial sum assured was £101,000 with a 
premium of £125 per month. The policy also included terminal  illness  benefit.
The policy appears  to have been reviewed  in line with its terms and conditions but no 
changes were required until 2014  when Mrs A had to increase her premiums to maintain the 
sum assured or reduce the sum assured and keep paying the same  premiums.
Sun Life sent Mrs A a letter in May 2014  explaining the policy had been  reviewed and that 
changes had to be made to the policy in order to maintain the cover.  As no response was 
received it sent another letter chasing a response  in June.
However, again as no response was received the policy remained at the initial level of 
premium and because  more monies  werent  paid into this the value in the policy  gradually  
diminished over the years  resulting in it lapsing.
In 2019 Sun Life sent a letter to Mrs A to explain that the policy  had lapsed because  the 
premiums were no longer  sufficient to support the benefit the policy had been providing.
Mrs A complained explaining  that she had never received the letters  and if she had she 
would have increased her premiums.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He was satisfied the letters were  sent and there was no evidence that they had been 
lost in the post. He felt that Sun Life had acted  in accordance with its contractual terms and 
had reviewed the policy and communicated the results of those reviews to Mrs A as it had to. 
But when no response was received it implemented the lower sum assured for the same  
premiums as it was bound to do by its terms and conditions. He also felt that the policy  
lapsed in accordance with the terms and conditions and that ultimately this had been  made  
clear in the letters Sun Life sent in 2014.
Mrs A didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that she didnt receive 
those letters. She said she had been  misinformed by Sun Life. She also feels  she wasnt  
given enough  of an opportunity to reply to the letters in 2014 and that more than two letters 
should have been sent to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In order for me to be able to uphold this complaint I need to be able to safely  conclude  that 
Sun Life unfairly lapsed Mrs As policy. Having looked at everything provided,  I dont think  
this is the case.
Ref: DRN18923822I appreciate why Mrs A is frustrated that the policy has lapsed. It was a valuable  life 
insurance policy that she had been paying  into for years. However  I cant see that this was 
the fault of Sun Life.
The policy was reviewed  in line with the terms and conditions.  These  state the reviews would 
happen on the fifth anniversary of the start date of the policy.  It also stated in the terms and 
conditions that following  the review the policyholder would  be presented with a number of 
options to keep the protection  benefits in force until the next review. So given this, Mrs A 
was aware that her policy would be reviewed on a regular basis  and that changes may be 
needed for her to keep the protection  in place.
Therefore, in light of this all Sun Life was obliged to do in relation to the reviews  was to 
inform Mrs A as the policyholder of the results of those  reviews and present her with the 
available options  that would affect her policy. Only if Sun Life hadnt  done this would I be 
able to conclude  that it had made an error that needed to be rectified.
I have seen the letters Sun Life sent to Mrs A in 2014. The letter in May explained why the 
policy had been  reviewed and what this meant for the cover the policy was providing. It also 
gave the options that were available to her if she wanted to keep the policy  going   either 
increase her premiums to maintain the sum assured or accept a lower sum assured and 
keep the premiums as they were. The letter also clearly stated in the Q & A section that if 
you do nothing the level of protection will reduce and benefits  may run out altogether  in five 
years.
In my view this letter clearly explained  what was happening to the policy, what  Mrs A had to 
do to keep her cover  in place and also what would happen if she did nothing.
Ive also looked  at the letter that was sent in June chasing a response from Mrs A. Again 
another warning  was contained in this letter  explaining what would happen if she did nothing.  
It states its very unlikely we will be able to continue to provide your current level of 
protection for the next five years and the policy will lapse.
Again in my view this letter clearly  explained  what would happen if Mrs A did nothing in 
response to those letters.
I therefore think that having read these letters Mrs A would have  known exactly  what  she 
needed to do to keep the policy  in place and what would happen if she decided to do nothing  
or not respond.
I know Mrs A has said that she didnt receive these letters but the address where the letters  
were sent is correct and there is nothing to confirm  the letters  were  not delivered or received 
by her. Also, I think its unlikely that two letters from the same  company would be lost in the 
post. I am satisfied that Sun Life did send the letters and if they werent received by Mrs A, 
Sun Life cant be held responsible for any failure in the postal system. Therefore I cant say 
for definite that the letters werent received.  So as I think  they were  and I think the letters  set 
out the options available to Mrs A options  I think she had all the information  she needed to 
make a fully informed decision about  what to do with the policy  at that point in time.
I know Mrs A has said she feels she was misinformed by Sun Life but I dont think  this is the 
case. As I have illustrated above, she should have been aware the policy  would be reviewed 
regularly as this was clearly set out in the terms and conditions. I appreciate  she feels she 
didnt have enough time to respond  but two letters, one being a chaser,  is all I would expect 
Ref: DRN18923823any business to send in a situation such as this. Its really the policyholders responsibility to 
ensure they are aware  of what  was happening with the policy.  Also it has taken four years  
for the policy to lapse  so Mrs A had ample  time to contact Sun Life to enquire  why her policy 
value was reducing every year which she would have seen form the annual statements 
I know she received.
Therefore in light of everything I have said, whilst its unfortunate that the policy  is no longer 
available, Sun Life hasnt done anything  wrong. It reviewed the policy as it should  have done 
and sent Mrs A a letter detailing  the result of that review. Its very normal  for a policy to 
reduce in value  if the right amount isnt being paid into it so what has happened isnt 
unusual. Also it was Mrs As responsibility to keep up to date with what  was happening  with 
her policy which would  have been  noticeable from the annual reviews  she received. So 
overall for those reasons  I dont  think Sun Life has done anything  wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1892382