K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow)  was irresponsible to lend him 
money.
Background
Mr A took out two instalment  loans with Cash4unow between September  and October  2017. 
Loan one was for £150 and Mr A was due to make  three monthly repayment of £73 each.  
Mr A repaid  loan one on 26 September 2017  and applied for loan two in early October 2017. 
Mr A borrowed £300 that he was due to repay by six monthly instalments of about £88 each. 
Mr A wants  Cash4unow to refund the interest and charges that he paid together  with interest 
on the refund.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr As complaint should  be upheld.  He asked 
Cash4unow to refund the interest  and charges that Mr A had paid together  with interest.  And 
the adjudicator  recommended that Cash4unow  remove any negative information about the 
loans from Mr As credit file.
Cash4unow disagreed with the adjudicators view. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN12919082There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Cash4unow has told us that before agreeing both loans, it asked Mr A for details of his 
income and outgoings. Based on the information that he gave, it appeared that Mr A had 
under £500  of disposable income each month. On the face of this, it looked  as though Mr A 
had enough disposable income to be able to afford to repay loans one and two.
However, Cash4unow also carried out credit  checks on Mr A. These showed that Mr A owed 
money to at least three other short term lenders. I think  that this information suggested to 
Cash4unow that Mr A wasnt asking for credit to meet unexpected expenses  but rather  to 
help support his finances in the longer  term. And Cash4unow shouldve  considered  that 
taking on additional  high cost credit to meet Mr As ongoing needs  wasnt  the purpose for 
which these kinds of loans was intended.  So Cash4unow shouldve seen that the loans were  
likely to be unsustainable for Mr A.
It follows that I uphold  Mr As complaint about the loans. 
Putting things  right  what  Cash4unow needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr A paid on the loans;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any negative information  about the loans from Mr As credit  file; 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4unow  to take off tax from this interest.  Cash4unow 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct  Novaloans Ltd (trading as 
Cash4unow) to put things right as detailed  above. 
Ref: DRN12919083Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1291908