K822xcomplaint
Mr C and Mr H complain that Mary Henderson  trading  as Botanic Financial (Botanic  
Financial) acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  dealing  with the re-mortgage of their 
properties. They want compensation  and matters put right.
background 
Mr C and Mr H had two properties  which they wanted to remortgage as the current products 
were ending in October  2018. Botanic Financial were their mortgage brokers.  Mr C and Mr H 
said that they chose new products, provided  the necessary information and thought  matters  
were progressing from August 2018 onwards; they later discovered that the new mortgage  
products were not in place when the old products ended. Mr C and Mr H said Botanic 
Financial failed to return  calls and contact them about the situation until November, when it 
said a full valuation  was required.  
Mr C and Mr H complained to Botanic Financial.  It said that the lenders hadnt  given  the 
information needed and werent  able to agree the valuation provided by Mr C and Mr H. 
Botanic Financial also said that it didnt like giving consumers  bad news. It offered to pay the 
difference between  the extra interest paid by Mr C and Mr H and what they shouldve  paid 
for a two month period  if the remortgages  had completed, but the money wasnt  received. 
Botanic Financial said one application was progressing, but Mr C and Mr H went  to another  
broker and had a new buy to let mortgage  in place by February 2019 and a new residential 
mortgage in place by April 2019.
Mr C and Mr H complained to us, and said that it appeared Botanic Financial hadnt provided 
all the information  the lenders needed. Botanic Financial said it had told Mr C and Mr H that 
it couldnt help arrange a new product for the buy to let property  due to the lenders IT 
issues, and a full remortgage wasnt appropriate  due to the current  use of that property. It 
accepted that it hadnt given good service  to Mr C and Mr H for their residential mortgage  
and said it was willing to pay £828  for the extra interest paid for the residential  mortgage to 
cover a three month  period of financial loss. Botanic Financial also offered £200  for the 
trouble and upset  caused by its failings.
The adjudicators view was that Botanic Financial was initially asked to deal with both 
mortgages, but it then explained that due to the lenders IT issue  (which was well known), a 
new product wasnt available for the buy to let mortgage. He noted  that the attempts to get a 
new mortgage for the buy to let mortgage failed due to the use of the property. The 
adjudicator didnt think this was unfair or unreasonable and Mr C and Mr H had been told of 
the reasons.
But in relation to the residential  mortgage,  the adjudicator said that Botanic Financial 
struggled as the proposed new lender wanted to see evidence of income from the buy to let 
mortgage; this was a problem  as the source of that income wasnt  acceptable to any lender. 
This meant the only realistic option was just a new product  with the current lender  both the 
adjudicator and Botanic Financial accepted that the service here wasnt good enough as it 
shouldve been  more proactive. The adjudicator  said £828 for the financial loss and £200  for 
the trouble and upset caused was fair and reasonable compensation in all the 
circumstances.
Mr C and Mr H disagreed.  They  said three months had passed when Botanic Financial 
hadnt updated them or communicated at all, and denied that theyd been told about the 
Ref: DRN15607422issues affecting their buy to let mortgage.  Mr C and Mr H felt more compensation should  be 
paid, both for financial loss and the trouble and upset theyd suffered. The adjudicator said if 
Mr C and Mr H could provide evidence of the financial  loss, hed review his view.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I asked for more information from both parties. I asked Mr C and Mr H to provide  evidence 
about the old and new residential mortgages  and the alleged financial  loss, which  was 
provided promptly. I also asked Botanic Financial for evidence  about the advisory  process 
and the information given  to the consumers; this wasnt  provided promptly  or at all as 
Botanic Financial said that the evidence didnt  exist.
The buy to let mortgage
The IT issue which affected  the original  lender  for this mortgage is well-known to this 
service. While Botanic Financial has not supplied evidence  about this point, I do accept  that 
it wasnt possible to remortgage with that lender  in 2018. And I am aware that the industry as 
a whole does  have concerns about  the alleged use of the buy to let property  its standard  
industry practice to require a longer tenancy  than one or several nights for buy to let 
mortgages. There are often strict rules  about  what type of letting is and isnt acceptable. But 
I note Mr C and Mr H got a new product in place by February 2019. 
Whats important about this issue was whether Mr C and Mr H knew about the problem.  
Botanic Financial says that it told them from the start about the problem and its written file 
note at the bottom of the fact find is the evidence of this. Mr C and Mr H say that they 
werent told.
I think its striking  that theres  so little information  or emails about the buy to let mortgage 
from the time that Botanic  Financial was advising Mr C and Mr H. I wasnt  there  at the 
meetings so I have  to decide whats more likely than not to have happened.  The main 
contemporaneous evidence available is an email from the business to the consumers on 
9 November 2018. Botanic Financial says that it tried to apply to three lenders and each of 
them had a problem  with the valuation.  No evidence of the applications has been  supplied 
and I can see Botanic Financial suggested  that the application was then made as a holiday 
let if a claim against the current lender  failed  (due to its IT issues).
Whats odd is that the business recently  told this service that there  were  no suitability reports  
available as its policy was to only produce them if an application was made. This means 
either what it told Mr C and Mr H is incorrect, or the recent assertion to this service is 
incorrect. I think the lack of evidence suggests that no applications were  made.  Im unable to 
place weight on Botanic Financials submissions as they conflict  with both the evidence 
available and arent supported by objective  evidence. I think  it did accept instructions to get a 
new buy to let mortgage, despite  all the obvious  problems. Why else would the email  of 
9 November 2018 talk in depth about the applications Botanic Financial claim to have  made?
I think Mr C and Mr H werent told that Botanic Financial  couldnt help until 9 November  
2018. This wasnt fair or reasonable  in my view, particularly as the problems faced by the 
application were  known, or shouldve been known, to Botanic Financial from the start. 
Ref: DRN15607423But I am aware that the lender paid compensation for the inability to get a new product. It 
paid £250 for the trouble  and upset caused, and £1,115.60 for the extra interest  paid 
between 1 October 2018 and 31 December 2018,  with additional  interest to reflect  the loss 
of the use of the money. And the lender has confirmed that it changed the product to the 
lowest available for Mr C. This means  that theres no financial loss, but I accept Mr C 
suffered trouble and upset due to Botanic Financials failings. 
The residential mortgage
The residential mortgage was affected  by the same  problem as the buy to let mortgage,  but 
in a different way. If a lender asked to see proof of the source of income from the buy to let 
mortgage, it was likely that it wouldnt be acceptable under the lending policies at the time as 
the income wasnt coming from a suitable  tenancy.  This affected affordability.  But again, 
I note that Mr C and Mr H have overcome the difficulty  and got a new mortgage  with a new 
lender, which  started on 1 April 2019.  And I can see by 9 November 2018, Botanic Financial 
said the application to the current  lender  was proceeding well.
But Mr C and Mr H first saw Botanic Financial months  earlier in August so what was the 
cause of the delay? Botanic Financial  itself accepts that it caused two months worth  of 
delay, and later offered  to pay £828  for three months of financial loss. In its emails of 9 
November 2018,  it also mentioned paying  the extra interest until the new product was in 
place. The difference between the standard variable interest rate and the previous fixed 
interest rate for the original mortgage  meant that Mr C and Mr H were paying an extra 
£352.78 a month;  £828 doesnt  equate to three months financial loss, particularly when 
interest on the loss of use of that money is borne in mind.
And I dont  agree with the adjudicator that the only realistic option was to remortgage with 
the original lender  Mr C and Mr H remortgaged  elsewhere in April 2019 and received the 
mortgage offer in late November, only weeks after Botanic Financial said that the application 
to the original lender was progressing. This shows that other options were  available at the 
time. Theres no evidence  from the business  that there was a problem with the residential 
mortgage application to the current lender  outside of its control; its concession shows  the 
opposite  Botanic  Financial was to blame.
Why did Mr C and Mr H change broker in November 2018 and go to a new lender? Given 
the accepted poor service and delay  by Botanic Financial, I think its likely to be due to its 
unfair and unreasonable behaviour. This did mean that they remained paying extra  on the 
original residential mortgage  for longer, but I think in all the circumstances this was an action 
directly caused by Botanic Financials conduct. I think the financial loss caused by the 
business is the extra £352.78  for six months Mr C and Mr H paid (totalling £2,116.68), and 
this should be refunded  together with 8% interest  from the date of payment of each 
mortgage payment  to the date of refund  to reflect the loss of use of this money. I understand 
that no fee was paid to Botanic Financial by Mr C and Mr H, but if it has been,  that fee 
should be refunded together with 8% simple interest  from the date the money was received 
by the business to the date of refund.
Ref: DRN15607424Trouble and upset
Botanic Financial offered £200  for the trouble  and upset caused by its failings. Money  never 
truly compensates for trouble and upset. Mr C and Mr H were misled  by Botanic Financial 
about its ability to help with the buy to let mortgage,  and suffered delays  with the residential 
mortgage. Ive dealt with the financial loss, but Mr C and Mr H havent really  set out why 
£200 isnt fair or reasonable. We award  compensation  for trouble and upset on the basis of 
whats been suffered,  not the size or nature of the failings found. On the basis  of the 
evidence available  to me, I think £200 does fairly and reasonably reflect  the trouble and 
upset suffered by Mr C and Mr H from when the new products shouldve been in place and 
their successful completion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In response to my provisional decision,  Botanic Financial acknowledged  receipt  but made no 
further comment. Mr C and Mr H made  no comment either.
In light of the absence of any comments disagreeing with my provisional decision, and 
having considered the matter again, I remain  of the view set out previously and confirm that 
my provisional decision is my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Mary Henderson trading as Botanic 
Financial should  pay Mr C and Mr H £2,116.68 compensation together with 8% interest as 
outlined above  for their financial loss, and £200 compensation for the trouble and upset  
caused. Mary Henderson  trading as Botanic Financial has 28 days from the date that it is 
notified by this service  that the final decision is accepted to pay the money  in full to Mr C and 
Mr H, and will need to provide a tax deduction  certificate to Mr C and Mr H if any tax is 
deducted from the interest award. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C and Mr H to accept  or reject  my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1560742