K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a claim he made on his Great Lakes Insurance SE legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Great Lakes declined that claim.  Mr K says they were wrong to do so.
All references to Great Lakes  include  their claims handlers.
background
Mr K made a claim on his legal expenses insurance  policy to be paid for lost salary or wages 
whilst he was due to be off work  on jury service.
Great Lakes declined that claim on the basis that the event which  gave rise to the claim took 
place before the policy was in place. Mr K wasnt happy with this. He said that Great  Lakes 
were wrong to interpret  his policy in this way.
Our investigator assessed Mr Ks complaint and didnt uphold  it. Mr K doesnt agree so the 
matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Ks 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mr Ks insurance policy doesnt cover  a claim arising out of an event he might  have  known 
about before  the policy was in place.  Thats  not unusual. Legal expenses  insurance policies 
like his are intended  to cover uncertain  risks. 
In this case Mr K took out an insurance  policy to cover him for lost wages for jury service  
because he received a letter asking him to do this before  the policy was in place. Ive heard 
a call recording during  which  Mr K confirms when speaking with Great Lakes.  So he was 
seeking cover for an event that was known  to him before he took out the insurance. The 
policy specifically excludes  cover for this so I think Great Lakes were right to decline his 
claim.
Mr K says the event  which gave  rise to his claim didnt occur before he took the policy out. 
Rather he says its when he actually took part in jury service. But I dont  agree.  The event 
which gave rise to the claim  is, in no uncertain terms, the date of receipt  of the letter  inviting 
Mr K to take part in jury service. That wouldve been before the insurance was in place as 
this is what prompted  him to buy the insurance. As such it was a risk that was known  to him 
at the time he purchased the cover.
Mr K has also said his jury service was cancelled and that he was invited  to take part in it 
again at a later date.  I dont think that matters  for the purposes of Great Lakes decision to 
decline his claim because  it doesnt change the fact that he bought  the cover for the 
purposes of covering him for a known risk.
Finally, Mr K says the wording of the policy is vague in relation to the question of whether his 
claim should be covered.  I dont  think thats correct. The policy  makes  clear that it excludes 
Ref: DRN10301202events which  occur before the policy is in place and that such events are defined as the first 
in the series of events  that give rise to a claim. In this case  that event is Mr K receiving a 
letter asking him to take part in jury service.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint  against  Great  Lakes 
Insurance SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1030120