K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the amount  that hes been charged by Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading  
as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions, at the end of his hire agreement  and about the service 
that hes received.
background 
A new car was supplied  to Mr B under a hire agreement with Hitachi  Capital that he signed 
in April 2016. Hitachi Capital says that it was arranged that the car would be collected from 
Mr B in April 2018 but it was aborted because the tread on one of the tyres  was below the 
legal limit. Mr B was charged an aborted collection fee of £123 and the tyre was repaired. 
The car was then collected  by a third party on behalf  of Hitachi Capital  in May 2018. An 
inspection report was prepared which  identified the following  damage  and recommended  
charges to the car: four gouged  wheels (£65 each), broken door-pull (£19.57) and scratched 
door post (£75). The report also said that the spare key was missing and that decals on the 
car needed to be removed and charges of £145.67 and £50 were recommended.  
Mr B was charged the recommended amounts  but he complained to Hitachi  Capital  and it 
removed the charges  for the aborted collection fee, the wheels  and the decal. It then agreed 
to remove the charge  for the door-pull and to reduce the remaining charge by £50 as an 
apology for not responding  to his e-mails. Mr B wasnt  satisfied  with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr B 
had mis-placed the key but then found it and returned it to Hitachi Capital in August 
2018 by which time the car had been sold. So she thought  that the charge for the 
missing key was reasonable. And she said that the photo  in the inspection report 
showed that the scratch to the door post was just over 10mm  and was down to the bare 
metal so was chargeable and that Hitachi Capital had applied  the charge fairly. 
Mr B has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that:
hes received appalling customer service from Hitachi Capital in its failings leading up 
to the incorrect charges;
he was given incorrect information  about the repair that was required to the alloy 
wheels; 
the damage wasnt there when he left the car at the dealer and hes not paying for 
damage that he didnt  do; and
he returned the key when he was told that it was missing  and Hitachi  Capital 
shouldve asked  him about the key.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Hitachi Capital  on 11 February  2020.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Mr B and Hitachi Capital give very different accounts of what happened when Mr B 
returned his car at the end of his hire agreement.
Mr B says that he had issues with Hitachi Capital when  he approached it for prices  to 
replace his car and that he contacted it about  four to six weeks  before the agreement 
Ref: DRN12909092ended to use the wheel protection cover  that hed paid for. But he says that he was 
instructed to take the car to a garage (which he told Hitachi Capital wouldnt be able 
to repair  the wheels but it insisted that he should  do so). He says that he was then 
contacted by a collection  agent  who said that he was on his way to collect  the car 
from Mr Bs home. He says that the garage wasnt able to repair  the car so he 
contacted Hitachi  Capital which told him to leave the car at the garage and it was 
then collected  from there  about four weeks later.
Hitachi Capital says that Mr B dropped the car off at a garage in April 2018 and 
collection was arranged  but was aborted due to an illegal near side front tyre. It says 
that the tyre was repaired and the collection was rearranged in May 2018.  It says that 
Mr B has provided a video  showing the condition of the car when he dropped  it off 
but the post doesnt appear  in the video  and it believes  that the damage to it was 
likely to have been caused by the seat belt being  caught when the door was closed  
or a shoe scratch when getting in or out of the car.
Its clear from the evidence that Mr B has provided  that he wanted to avoid any end 
of contract  charges.  He says that hes hired other cars from Hitachi  Capital and 
always takes them to a body-shop to have any minor scratches repaired and that he 
has them  professionally  valeted before collection.  And he says that before he left the 
car at the garage he took videos and photographs of both the inside and outside of 
the car as evidence  of its condition  and that theres no way he wouldve handed  the 
car back with the scratch on the post.
The video and photos show that the car was in a good condition  when  it was left at 
the garage and the scratch to the post shown on the inspection  report looks to me to 
be recent damage. The car was at the garage for about four weeks before it was 
collected. Im not persuaded that Hitachi Capital has provided  enough  evidence  to 
show that the post was scratched when the car was left at the garage by Mr B. I 
consider it to be more  likely than not that the car was damaged after Mr B left it at the 
garage  and I dont  consider that its fair or reasonable  for Mr B to be charged  for 
that damage. So I find that Hitachi Capital should  waive the charge that its made  for 
the scratch to the post.
Mr B says that he was instructed to leave the car at the garage in April 2018 and was 
sent a collection  e-mail  by Hitachi Capital about  a month later. He says that hed 
forgotten to include the spare  key when he took the car to the garage and if Hitachi 
Capital had notified him that the key was missing he wouldve returned  it. But he says 
that the first time that he was made  aware  of the issue with the spare key was when 
he received an invoice from Hitachi Capital and he then sent it the key.
The terms and conditions  of the hire agreement  say:
You will ensure that on return the Vehicle  is accompanied by everything  
originally supplied with the Vehicle, including all keys (and key fob operating 
units) .
So Mr B had agreed that when he returned the car he would also return the spare 
key. But he didnt return the spare  key with the car so I consider that it was fair and 
reasonable for Hitachi Capital to charge him for the cost of a replacement.  But these 
events have caused distress and inconvenience  to Mr B. And to compensate  him for 
that distress and inconvenience,  I consider  that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Ref: DRN12909093Hitachi Capital to waive the outstanding balance on his account. That would leave 
nothing further  owing  by Mr B. And I consider that to be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances.
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or Hitachi Capital, my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part.
Neither Mr B nor Hitachi  Capital  has responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither Mr B nor Hitachi  Capital has 
responded to my provisional decision I see no reason to change that decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. And I 
order Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions,  to:
1.Waive the charge  for the scratched post.
2.Waive the outstanding  balance  on Mr Bs account as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  that hes been  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1290909