K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Amtrust  Europe Limited failed to indemnify  him for defects with his newly 
converted apartment when the developer failed to complete necessary repairs.
References to Amtrust  include the acts and omissions of its agents.
background 
Mr C bought his property in 2015. Unfortunately  he found a number of defects with his home  
shortly after moving in and some  of these proved difficult to resolve. For example, issues  
remain with the windows and the patio door.
When Mr C purchased his home  he also got a Premier Guarantee policy.  This is typical of 
the cover  people receive with new build or newly converted properties. It combines a 
builders warranty with an insurance product.
Amongst other benefits, Mr Cs policy provided cover  for building defects identified within the 
first 12 months. Here its the builders  responsibility  to put defects  right. But where this 
doesnt happen, in specified  circumstances the insurance cover kicks in.
Mr C had a number of concerns  about  what happened. For example he thinks  Amtrust 
shouldve progressed his claim for the windows much sooner than it did. He thinks it 
shouldve accepted his claim for the defective  patio door. And hes told us about  poor case 
handling and the impact  this has had on him and his family.
Amtrust accepted Mr C had a claim in relation to his windows. But it said the issue  of the 
patio door was still subject to a conciliation process,  so the matter wasnt a claim it had to 
consider.
The investigator upheld  this case.  Amtrust disagreed. So Mr Cs complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month.  Amtrust accepted  my conclusions.  And 
Mr C asked for a couple of clarifications,  which I will provide in this final decision.  But as Ive 
received no new arguments  or evidence I see no reason to depart  from the outcome I set out 
previously.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
There are some important points to note before  proceeding. The first is that Amtrust didnt 
think I should consider  the merits of Mr Cs complaint insofar  as it related to the patio door. It 
thought this element of his case was outside of this Services scope. I issued a jurisdiction 
decision about this specific matter last month.  I set out why I did have  the authority to 
consider all the matters  Mr C brought to us.
Ref: DRN14271632Following a report produced by an independent professionally qualified expert, its no longer 
a matter of dispute  by Amtrust that there  were  defects  to the windows and patio door in Mr 
Cs apartment. So, the focus  of this decision is about whats  fair in terms of Amtrust putting 
things right for Mr C. Im going to focus on four matters  in particular: the patio door;  the 
windows; his claim for loss of earnings;  and the trouble and upset Mr C has been caused.
the patio door
Mr C first reported  the defects in his property to the builder in 2015.  He escalated matters  
through the dispute resolution  service in July 2016. While some  issues were addressed, 
others remained outstanding, including problems  with the patio door.
Nearly a year later, Amtrusts  agent put in place arrangements  for a claim investigation 
survey. A report was produced in May 2017, and this sought  evidence from the builder about 
compliance with the technical specifications. Amtrust had difficulty  in getting the necessary 
evidence and on 25 July 2017 it escalated matters  telling  the builder in a formal warning that:
Despite our previous  correspondence you have not responded  to our requests for 
information nor rectified the failure to comply with the functional requirements of the 
technical manual  at [Mr Cs property].  We will therefore now investigate the claim and if 
appropriate underwriters  will proceed  to indemnify the policyholder(s) under the warranty.
You will be liable to indemnify the underwriters against any payments, claims, liabilities, 
losses and expensesThis situation  will affect your insurance rating and will be considered 
when initiating terms and rates for any future  sites.  This may also lead to a breach of the 
Consumer Code for Home Builders  making it difficult to obtain future terms for structural 
warranty cover.
Subsequently the builder provided some information and concluded  the problems at Mr Cs 
property werent defects. Mr C contested this view and towards the end of 2017 the issues 
were considered by an independent expert. He concluded the following about the patio door:
The Premier Guarantee Technical Manual  defines  a defect as: A failure to comply  with a 
functional requirement  in the Technical Manual  I find that as the door installation exceeds 
the specified weight requirements for the model installed, [it] is therefore defective.
Mr C asked for confirmation of how long it would take for the defects identified  in the report  
to be put right. He was told the following by Amtrusts agent:
this [the adjudicators report]  has been reviewed by our surveying service and I can 
confirm that they would consider one month  to be a reasonable time to remedy the issues 
identified as a defect.
Amtrust also confirmed to Mr C that the builder had been informed of the deadline. That 
means works shouldve  been complete by the end of February 2018. They werent.
Amtrust has provided a copy of the claims history  notes for Mr Cs case. Its clear that at 
various times throughout  the whole period the builder has been unresponsive (both towards  
Amtrust and Mr C). And on occasion there appear to have been concerns about  the factual 
accuracy of the information it supplied in relation to the matters in question.
Ref: DRN14271633The builders  performance in terms of pace, engagement and communications effectively 
stymied a resolution. Mr Cs claim entered dispute resolution in 2016  its not reasonable for 
it to have remained at that stage for so long.
Amtrust eventually accepted the problem with Mr Cs windows should be passed to the 
claims team under his insurance cover because the builder  had failed to respond adequately 
in order to resolve the defect. It took a different view in terms of the patio door. Here Amtrust 
told Mr C that:
following  the outcome  of the arbitration the builder has cooperated fully toward  the 
finalisation of the issue with the door
I find this assertion surprising. As already established, Amtrust had significant concerns 
about the performance of the builder. The formal warning it issued in July 2017 was followed  
with similar  warnings. For example in May 2018, when there were more delays to resolving 
matters related to the patio door, it again  put the builder on notice that it had failed to comply 
with its requirements. Theres a strong argument  Amtrust shouldve accepted liability  for Mr 
Cs claim for the patio  door from July 2017.
Amtrust told us that in the event of Mr C making  a claim for the patio door it would rely on 
certain terms in the policy. It said:
In the event of a valid claim under the policy the underwriter shall only be responsible  for 
costs and expenses  that a reasonable  person  would  incur if spending their own money. 
I can see that Amtrust has now managed to engage  the builder and it has proposed  a 
solution to put Mr Cs door right.  It thinks  it should be given  the chance to fix the problem  via 
this route.  But I also note that Mr C has obtained  confirmation from the manufacturer  that the 
remedial works proposed  have never  been  tested. So I can understand his reservations.
When responding to a claim its normal and reasonable for an insurer  to take into account  
the terms of a policy. And similarly, in principle  it may choose to work with the original builder 
to resolve the defects.  How it fulfils  its obligations as an insurer is, within reason, up to it to 
decide.
The problem in this case is that Amtrust has taken an unreasonable  amount of time to 
resolve the issues Mr C has raised. The solution  that its proposed for the patio door hasnt 
been tested. And it seems  the original builder  is in line to do the work, despite  a breakdown 
in trust, and not just from Mr Cs perspective  it would seem.
As Ive set out, the insurance policy must  now respond to the problem with Mr Cs patio door. 
And in some  respects,  given the circumstances Amtrust has forfeited some  of the control  it 
would normally expect  to exercise in this regard.
I think Amtrust  should have one month  to propose and arrange to carry out remedial works 
to Mr Cs patio door.  It should engage  a specialist contractor - Mr C shouldnt  have to deal 
with the original builder  for reasons already outlined. The proposed solution must give him 
comfort that the outcome will be a door that performs in all respects as it was intended to do, 
and for the foreseeable future.
Ref: DRN14271634Mr C asked for clarification as to whether it was my intention that the professional opinion of 
the specialist contractor would hold sway.  Thats to say its opinion about  whether the 
proposed solution would be effective  and lasting, would be what matters. I can confirm that 
is the case  I would expect Amtrust to adhere to the advice it receives.
Mr C also asked that I stipulate the specialist contractor  should be independent of Amtrust.  I 
understand his request here. However, Ive already  determined that the original builder cant 
be involved. And that the matter of the patio door is covered by his insurance policy.  These  
findings should provide  him some  assurance  about  how matters  will now be conducted by 
Amtrust.
I dont feel it would be right to totally fetter Amtrust in how they try to resolve matters.  Given  
the specialist nature of the parts and works  required,  the number of qualified contractors 
maybe small. And so to exclude any that have  a relationship of some kind with Amtrust could 
be counter-productive. That said its quite possible that the specialist contractor employed 
will be independent.
Its important to note that when an insurer  chooses to settle a claim  by repair, we expect it to 
indemnify the consumer  by carrying out an effective  and lasting repair . This isnt something 
that is always written into a policy but we think its a fair and reasonable approach.
To be effective the repair must fully put right the damage. And to be lasting it must do so for 
an appropriate amount of time. Whats appropriate will depend on whats  being repaired. So 
in this case, wed expect the remedial works to last many years,  and certainly at least  a 
decade.
If Amtrust cant  arrange for the works to be carried out to the proper standard then it will 
need to agree a cash settlement based on the replacement  of the whole patio  door unit. I 
said in my provisional decision that Mr C should  attempt  to secure three  quotes  for the work.  
Mr C says that given the specialist  nature of replacing a large timber framed patio door he 
may only be able to secure two quotes. In this instance, Amtrust should be given the 
opportunity to suggest a qualified alternative supplier to provide  the additional quote for 
comparison. If this isnt possible,  then it would be necessary to work on the basis  of only the 
two quotes.
Obviously, by going down the cash settlement route  this would mean  any problems that 
were to arise  related to the remedial works  on the patio door would be a matter between  the 
chosen contractor  and Mr C - Amtrust would have no further liability.
the windows
The independent expert who inspected Mr Cs property reported  in January 2018 that:
In regard  to the windows, I find that there is a defect in the ventilation  and extract  system 
evidenced by the inadequate removal of condensation and a failure  to comply with the 
Technical Manual in regard to the control  of condensation in failing to install  insulated  metal 
frames and background trickle ventilation.
Ref: DRN14271635Amtrust accepted Mr C had a claim and it offered to make a cash  settlement. He supplied 
three quotes for the remedial  works in May 2018. The next month Amtrust wrote to Mr C with 
an offer to pay him £3,168.  This excluded the VAT element of the quote,  which  Mr C could 
claim later when  hed been  invoiced.  And it included  a reduction for payment of the policy  
excess. Both these  adjustments are normal practice  by insurance companies and are 
reasonable.
I can see there was subsequently some to and fro between the parties. Amtrust was trying  to 
secure acceptance of the offer. It noted  in its first offer on 5 June 2018 that the quote it had 
selected was only valid for 30 days. And Mr C wanted all the outstanding matters to be dealt 
with together,  and to have some comfort  there  was no conditionality to his acceptance in 
respect of other aspects  of his overall claim.
The matter  in dispute now is whether Mr C should be allowed to obtain up to date quotes. I 
can understand Amtrusts  position that its not responsible for the long delay since it first 
made a cash settlement  offer to put the windows right eight months ago. But I note by the 
time it made  the offer the quote had already elapsed.
I appreciate that Mr C says there was a trust issue by the time Amtrust had made  its offer 
and he wanted  to ensure that in accepting settlement he wasnt  affecting his position  on the 
other outstanding issues. But Amtrust did clearly confirm this wasnt the case  in September  
2018. Ultimately Mr Cs preference was simply to get everything sorted together.
I err towards Amtrusts  position on this matter, but this is not a binary  matter.  By delaying 
acceptance of the offer Mr C was potentially prejudicing  Amtrusts  position because the cost 
of putting things right mayve increased.  But I also note by the time it had made its offer the 
quote was no longer  valid anyway. And it wasnt until three months later it provided the 
comfort Mr C requested about how other elements of his claim would be affected by 
acceptance.
So, I think Mr C should be allowed to approach the company whose quote Amtrust  had 
accepted and ask for an updated  estimate for exactly the same  specified works. Any price 
increase between the original and new quote should be shared proportionately by Mr C and 
Amtrust on a 70/30 basis.
loss of earnings
The investigator awarded Mr C compensation for loss of earnings. Hed had to take three 
half days off of work to allow three contractors into his flat to review the situation with his 
patio door being  jammed  open.  I can understand the logic here; had the problem been dealt 
with more effectively  this wouldnt have been necessary. But I do have some  reservations 
about this approach.
Amtrust argues that its insurance wouldnt  cover this sort of consequential  loss - I accept that 
argument. Nevertheless I could still require it to cover losses  outside  of what  the policy 
provides for. But to do so Id have to be satisfied that Amtrust was responsible for the loss 
and that any cost exposure  was properly incurred.
Ref: DRN14271636There are important arguments that undermine an award here. Firstly, Mr C told me that he 
didnt approach the original builder or Amtrust  to review the situation. Had he done so then 
they mayve been  able to respond with less disruption to his work situation. Its also arguable 
that he couldve arranged  for the three  contractors  to attend during the same half day. And 
its difficult to be certain  that Mr C, who is self-employed,  wouldve definitely  had work on the 
days in question.
On balance, I dont  think it would be fair to require Amtrust to meet  Mr Cs claim for loss of 
earnings.
trouble and upset
Were all inconvenienced occasionally in our day-to-day lives,  including in our dealings with 
other people, businesses and organisations. When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint 
like this, Ill think about whether its fair to award  compensation  for trouble and upset. This 
isnt intended  to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the regulator.  But when 
somethings gone wrong, a businesss recognition of the emotional  and practical impact can 
make a real difference.
For me to award compensation, I need  to decide what the impact  of Amtrusts actions was. 
Thats separate from the trouble and upset caused by the original event itself, the 
consequences of what the policyholder did or didnt do and his situation. These things were 
beyond Amtrusts control.
I can see that at various stages in Mr Cs claim journey Amtrust raised arguments (internally 
or with Mr C) which suggested  he either had no cover or that cover was somewhat limited. 
For example:
-It suggested his claim  for the defect to his window  fell under a common parts term 
which wouldve meant a £10,000  excess. This proved  to be an incorrect reading  of 
the terms.
-Following the independent  experts report into the problems at Mr Cs flat there was 
some internal debate about  whether the findings  were binding or not. 
-After Mr C brought his complaint to us Amtrust  asserted that Mr C hadnt properly 
registered the defects within the first year of taking on his property and so couldnt 
rely on insurance cover. It later accepted it was wrong to advance this argument.
-Amtrust also challenged  this Services jurisdiction to consider Mr Cs complaint.  Ive 
now issued my decision making clear we can consider his complaint in full.
Of course its reasonable for insurance companies  and their agents to reply on policy terms 
and conditions where these are clear, fair and not misleading. But it seems in this case 
rather than validating Mr Cs claim in the round early on, these challenges  were  raised  
sequentially and over a long period of time.
I dont think it was the case that Amtrust  intended  to thwart what ultimately proved to be a 
proper claim to which the insurance  policy  should  respond. The effect  of its actions  
nonetheless was to delay  and frustrate  Mr Cs progress in resolving matters.
Ref: DRN14271637Mr C bought a newly  refurbished property for a significant sum of money. He was entitled  to 
think it would  be defect  free. And then when this proved not to be the case  he shouldve 
expected matters would be put right quickly and effectively. 
But we know  that despite complaining about  defects  with his property in 2015, we are now in 
2019 and Mr Cs patio  door and windows  still havent been  put right. As well as being 
unsatisfactory generally, Mr C has told us about the effect of having to live in an unsecure  
and unsafe property for months on end - a situation that has impacted him and his family.
I think Amtrust  should make an award  to Mr C in recognition  of the substantial trouble and 
upset its caused  him during the handling of his claim.
putting things right
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
-Identify a specialist  contractor to propose  and arrange to carry out effective and 
lasting remedial works to Mr Cs patio door. This should happen within  one month of 
the date of Mr C accepting my final decision.
-If Amtrust  cant arrange for the works to the patio door be carried  out to these 
requirements then it will need to agree a cash settlement based on the replacement 
of the whole patio door unit. Following  submission of quotes,  it will have 2 weeks to 
make Mr C an offer which would be at least equivalent to the lowest of estimates  
(with the usual adjustments  for VAT and the policy excess).
-Cash settle for the defective windows in accordance with the offer it made in June 
2018. But this will be uplifted  by 30% of any increase in price between  the original 
quote and an updated estimate if Mr C can obtain  this for exactly the same  specified 
works from the same company within one month  of the date of his acceptance of my 
final decision.
-Pay Mr C £1,500  in recognition of the trouble and upset its caused him and his 
family during  the pursuit his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint. I require Amtrust Europe  Limited  to 
put things right as Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1427163