K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is that JPMorgan Funds Limited (JPM) applied a level of fees to his 
investment account   over around  15 years, up to 2019  that was excessive, that was 
concealed until 2019, that was not agreed  by him and that was not justified by its service  to 
him/his account. He seeks financial redress for the matter.
background
The main  documentary evidence submitted  by Mr D with his complaint was a page  from his 
account statement. The statement covers  the period 6 January  2018 to 5 January 2019. His 
complaint includes  his dissatisfaction with the statement being sent to him in April 2019, 
three months after its 5 January end date.  The page refers to the following charges:
Ongoing  charges (under the heading   Investment Product Costs) of £165.30, at the 
rate of 1.47%.
Transaction Costs (under the heading   Investment Service Costs)  of £0.17 and (under 
the heading  Investment Product Costs)  of £54.42,  at the rate of 0.49%.
Total Costs  and Charges of £219.89,  at the total rate of 1.96%. [Mr D says the correct 
fee rate as of 5 January 2019 was 2.176% and not 1.96% but, in either case, it was 
excessive, unjustified,  concealed and was applied without his agreement.]
JPM disputes the complaint. In the main, it says as follows:
The Markets  in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) II rules affected,  from 2018, its 
disclosure of ex-post (after the event) and ex-ante (before the event) investment costs and 
charges. Mr D did not invest new money in/after 2018 so the ex-ante information on costs 
and charges, on its website, might  not be known to him but the statement he received  was 
JPMs fulfilment  of its ex-post  costs  and charges disclosure.  As this was a new 
requirement, it took some  time to ensure that the information provided to clients in the 
statements was as accurate and clear  as possible, hence their provision in April 2019.
The ongoing costs/charges are for management,  administration and fund fees.  The 
costs and charges  associated with the investments  were agreed in the fund terms and 
conditions or Fund Prospectus when the investments  were  made.  They were not 
concealed in any way and were readily  available through its website. All clients invested  
in the same  funds  as Mr Ds were  charged  ongoing and transaction costs at the same  
rate for the same period and the ex-post  rate applied  during the charging period in 
Mr Ds statement  was broadly similar to (but also a little less than) the ex-ante cost and 
charges rate for the same period. The difference between  the total rate in the statement  
and the rate Mr D has calculated relates to his calculation being based on his accounts 
value on a specific date, whereas  the rate in the statement is based on the account 
value over the relevant 12 months period.
The costs and charges  do not correlate with performance of the relevant investments, 
they apply regardless  of whether the investments perform well or not.
One of our lead adjudicators looked into the complaint, concluded  it should  not be upheld 
and agreed, broadly, with the points made by JPM. He also noted  that the costs and charges 
applied to Mr Ds account were not inconsistent with comparable costs and charges in the 
sector. Mr D disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
Ref: DRN14679192my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Available documentary  evidence about  the costs and charges in dispute appears to be 
limited to the page from Mr Ds 2018/2019 account statement, which he shared with us and 
which JPM commented upon. I do not completely discount his reference to incurring such  
fees over around  15 years  (up to 2019). That is possible, in the context of any holdings of 
relevant investments with JPM over that period, but I should  note that statements for this 15 
years period  (other than for 2018/2019) have  not been presented. I appreciate  this is 
probably a result of the disclosure requirements being different prior to MiFID II.
I mention the above to clarify the scope  of my findings. They  are mainly based on what is 
disputed in the 2018/2019 statement, which I have seen, and on both parties  submissions 
about the statements contents.  
I have also considered JPMs Key Features and Terms and Conditions document  (effective 
from 2015)   available from its website  for its investment  accounts.  However  it should  be 
noted that the costs and charges disputed in this complaint are investment product costs 
not the account costs, so this document was arguably of limited  relevance. To address this 
further, I have considered  the ex-ante costs and charges  information  presented  by JPM and 
I have looked  into the Key Information Documents  (KIDs) for the JPM funds (the products) 
that Mr D appears to have  invested in and in relation  to which the disputed  charges appear 
to have been applied. Unfortunately the KIDs post-date 2018 but overall and on balance, I 
consider them broadly  reliable in terms of what the contents of the pre-2019 versions would 
probably have  been.
The KIDs confirm that the ongoing  costs  for the funds   as described by JPM  were  part of 
the inherent terms of investing within them. On balance, I accept the implication that Mr D 
would probably  have had to agree with such terms in the course of investing  in the funds. 
The ex-ante  costs and charges information shows  that the charges applied  to Mr Ds 
investments in those  funds were actually a little less than they would have been for new 
investors during  the same period. 
The charges  were not dependent on or related to investment  performance,  so whilst I can 
understand Mr Ds displeasure about  them being  applied even where  his investments made  
a loss (which is an example he submitted), the absence of correlation in this respect means 
legitimacy of the charges was not defined by whether (or not) the funds made a profit.
I am not persuaded by evidence  within the complaint  and in a wider sense  that the 
charges were excessive.  A total ongoing charge rate of around 2%  for management, 
administration and fund fees  is not particularly an outlier in the sector.  Even if it could  be 
argued as being  at the higher end of the average  I do not consider  it to be excessive as 
alleged by Mr D.
I do not consider  that, prior to MiFID II, the charges were concealed from Mr D. They  were  
probably not disclosed in the same manner as they were in 2019 (for the preceding year) but 
I have verified that the relevant account  and product related charges  are available and 
reasonably accessible  in JPMs website, and I am persuaded that they would have been 
equally accessible to Mr D during previous  periods of his investments.
Ref: DRN14679193I also do not consider  that JPM committed a meaningful wrongdoing by providing  the 
statement to Mr D three months after its end date.  It was not unreasonable  for JPM to have 
taken time to ensure the new disclosure  requirements were being properly executed and that 
the information to be given in the statements was accurate  and properly presented. The 
exercise would  have involved consolidation of account information for all of its clients 
accounts, for a 12 months period, so the three  months period does not appear  to constitute 
an undue  delay.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1467919