K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about Legal  and General  Assurance  Society  Limiteds decision to turn 
down his claim for critical illness benefit.
background
In August  2015  Mr N applied for term assurance with critical  illness policies with L&G.  
During the application he was asked several questions about his health, including:
Apart from anything youve already told us in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen  a doctor, nurse, or health professional for:
Raised blood pressure, raised  cholesterol or condition affecting blood  
or blood vessels for example  anaemia,  excess sugar  in the blood, blood  
clot, deep vein thrombosis?
Mr N answered  yes to this question. He said hed suffered  from high blood  pressure and had 
been advised to take medication. He said his blood  pressure had been checked  two months 
ago and was 138/70.  
Mr N also recorded his height as 6ft and weight as18 stone. 
L&G sent Mr N a copy of his application  to check the accuracy of the answers  hed provided.  
Mr N signed and returned the application  to L&G on 1 October 2015. L&G agreed the term 
assurance and critical illness cover, but not on standard  terms because of the information he 
provided about his body  mass index and his blood  pressure. 
Mr L contacted L&G in October 2018  to make  a claim as hed unfortunately suffered a 
stroke. L&G requested medical evidence to allow it to assess his claim. It found the 
information Mr N provided on his application form about his height,  weight and blood  
pressure was incorrect.  L&G said GP records showed that in May 2015, Mr Ns height and 
weight had been recorded as 5ft 9inch and19 stone  respectively. And a blood  pressure 
reading from July 2015 was recorded  as 158/96. In view of this L&G declined  the claim and 
cancelled Mr Ns policies. It refunded all the premiums hed paid. 
Mr N was unhappy with L&Gs  decision  and referred  his complaint to our service. He said 
hed provided  L&G with what he considered to be accurate information. He said his weight 
fluctuated throughout the year and hed always considered himself to be 6ft tall. He 
maintained his most recent blood pressure reading  at the time of the application  was 138/70.   
Our investigator considered the complaint  but felt L&G had acted reasonably by declining  
the claim.   
Mr N disagreed with the investigators findings, so his case  has been passed to me for a 
review. He maintained  that a blood  pressure reading of 138/70 had been taken by a nurse,  
but had seemingly not been recorded in his medical records.  He also told us L&G was aware 
of his high blood pressure  in relation  to a previous application where critical illness  cover had 
been declined.  
Ref: DRN10459552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it, for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator. During the course of my review, Ive obtained 
further information from both Mr N and L&G. 
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what  CIDRA  describes - as a qualifying  misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show  it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer  can show  it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid  the policy, the insurer must show  it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid  the policy, it means  it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying  misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer  hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim  and settle it proportionately  if it accepts it. 
Did Mr N take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation or 
misrepresentations?
Ive thought carefully about the questions posed  by L&G on the application  form Mr N 
completed in August  2015 around height,  weight and blood pressure, and Im satisfied they 
were clear  and specific. 
height and weight
The medical records show  Mr N measured (180.7  cm) 5ft 9inches  in May 2015. But I can 
see he recorded his height as 6ft on all previous applications to L&G and said he considered 
himself to be that height. He also told L&G hed measured 6ft as part of his post stroke follow  
up. So, on balance  I think it was reasonable of Mr N to record  his height  as 6ft on the 
August 2015 application.  
I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show  Mr N provided an incorrect weight of 18 
stone on the application form. This is because I think its perfectly feasible hed lost a stone  
in weight between  May 2015 (when his weight was recorded as 19 stone)  and August 2015  
when he completed  the application. He said his weight fluctuates.  And I can see he was 
given health and lifestyle advice during his May 2015 GP consultation,  which may well have 
Ref: DRN10459553helped him to lose some weight. So, I dont believe theres sufficient evidence to prove  the 
weight Mr N recorded on the August 2015  application was incorrect. 
So, I dont think Mr N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
regarding his height and weight on the application he completed  in August 2015. 
blood pressure
The main  issue - as I see it - is the information Mr N gave on the application  form about  his 
latest  blood pressure reading when checked  by your doctor or nurse . 
L&G has argued the latest recorded reading,  from July 2015, is 158/96, so believes this is 
the reading Mr N shouldve provided. But this isnt the information  the question  asked Mr N 
to provide. It asked him to provide the latest  blood  pressure  reading when checked by Mr Ns 
doctor or nurse. So, if hed had his blood  pressure checked by his doctor or nurse and it was 
138/70  which was the answer he gave, Mr N wouldnt  have made a misrepresentation at 
all in answering this question. 
Mr N told us he attended a drop in session on or around 12 July 2015 at his GP surgery and 
had a blood pressure reading  of 138/70 taken by a nurse. He told us that the nurse  was very 
busy when she took the reading.  But he remembers her calling  through  to the GP to say the 
reading was 138/70 and the GP confirming no further tests  were needed. Mr N said he had a 
record of the reading at the time on his mobile  phone, which is how he knew  what to put on 
the August  2015 application. But he no longer has that record.
L&G has maintained  throughout  that theres no evidence Mr N saw a nurse, GP or had a 
clinic review in July 2015 to follow up on his blood pressure or that a blood  pressure  
recording of 138/70 was taken.  L&G has since told me if a nurse or GP omitted this 
information from Mr Ns medical  records, it would not be an oversight but would constitute 
gross negligence, and wouldve had serious consequences for the medical 
practitioner/practice. L&G has also argued that there are eight  blood  pressure readings in 
Mr Ns medical  records  and only two of those are below 140/90. One of the low readings is 
20 months before the application and the other is after a change of blood pressure 
medication (introduction  of Labetalol and Lercanidipine)  two months after Mr Ns stroke.  
So, L&G dont think Mr Ns medical records suggest  its likely a reading of 138/70  was taken 
in July 2015. Its said his medical  records show his diastolic figure has never been recorded 
near 70 for any of the readings taken. Therefore, L&G has said if a reading of 138/70  had 
been taken, it wouldve  been a significant improvement in Mr Ns blood pressure, meaning  it 
should and would have been recorded  in his medical records, especially  if thered been a 
conversation between the nurse  and the GP.  And I think  L&Gs view and the points its 
made are understandable. 
I contacted Mr Ns GP surgery and asked  for some  more  general information about the 
process in place in 2015 for blood pressure readings to be taken. It confirmed that a drop in 
process was in place  in 2015. And that there was no appointment system. The GP surgery  
said a nurse  would take the reading and record the result on the computerised  medical 
records. If the nurse needed  to speak to the GP, then this would also be recorded  on the 
computerised medical records.  
So, whilst Mr Ns recollection of events is supported by his GPs confirmation  that a drop  in 
session was in place in 2015, I think its very unlikely the nurse  wouldve forgotten  to record 
Ref: DRN10459554information about his visit on the GP surgerys computer system, particularly given the 
implications of not recording such information both on the GP surgery  itself, but also on the 
future management of Mr Ns high blood  pressure. And this means  I dont think theres  
enough evidence  for me to say Mr N did have his blood pressure taken at 138/70 in July 
2015 by a nurse at his GP surgery.
This means  that I think L&G has done  enough to show Mr N failed to take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation about his latest blood pressure reading  when  he completed 
the application in August 2015 and said his latest blood pressure reading was 138/70.  I 
appreciate Mr N is adamant  he did have this reading taken, but I have to decide whats  more 
likely than not to have happened  based  on the evidence available.  And Im afraid I think  the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not Mr N didnt see the nurse  and have this reading  
taken in July 2015. 
Did the misrepresentation make  any difference  to the terms L&G offered?
Under this heading,  I have to consider whether  Mr Ns misrepresentation in respect of his 
blood pressure  reading made a difference to the terms L&G offered.  In other words, would 
L&G have acted any differently had it known  Mr Ns latest blood pressure reading was 
158/96 when applying for the policy as opposed  to 138/70. L&G has said if Mr N had said his 
blood pressure  was 158/96 it wouldve offered  life insurance cover,  but not critical illness  
cover. So, Im satisfied  it wouldve made a difference.  
And this combined  with what I think was a failure by Mr N to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation about his blood  pressure reading in July 2015  means  I think he 
did make  a qualifying  misrepresentation  on his application in August 2015. 
Was the qualifying  misrepresentation deliberate/reckless or careless?
L&G classifies Mr Ns misrepresentation  as deliberate/reckless. Given my findings above 
about the fact I consider it more likely than not that he didnt have a blood pressure reading 
of 138/70 in July 2015, Im satisfied  L&Gs  view that Mr Ns misrepresentation was 
deliberate/reckless is reasonable.  
As Ive explained above, in cases of deliberate/reckless misrepresentation, CIDRA says L&G 
can avoid the policies applied for, refuse  all claims and keep the premiums paid. L&G has 
avoided the two policies Mr N took out as a result  of his application, but has returned  the 
premiums, which  it wasnt  obliged to do. But this doesnt alter its right to class the 
misrepresentation as deliberate/reckless. And it means I dont think L&G was wrong to avoid 
Mr Ns policies and refuse his claim as a result of this. 
Ive already shared my findings with Mr N and so I know from what hes told me that my final 
decision will come as a great disappointment  for him. Im really sorry this isnt the outcome 
he was hoping for. This has been  a very difficult case to decide,  in part because of Mr Ns 
current circumstances and the impact of his stroke. But also because I appreciate his 
strength of feeling  that the138/70 blood pressure  reading was taken but not recorded. But 
taking everything into account, and looking at whats more likely than not to have happened,  
I think L&Gs decision to avoid Mr Ns policies and refuse  his critical illness  claim was in line 
with the relevant legislation  and fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So, I wont be 
asking L&G to take any action. 
Ref: DRN10459555my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1045955