K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about his mortgage  lender NRAM Limited. Hes unhappy that his mortgage 
lender:
-hasnt offered any new interest  rate products  and so hes trapped on a Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR);
-sets its SVR at an unfairly  high level and is quick to pass on increases to the Bank  of 
England base rate to customers but it doesnt pass on decreases at the same  pace;  
and 
-Mr J says he was told in 2004 that hed always be able to get new interest rate 
products when the previous one expired.  He was also told his mortgage would revert 
to a tracker rate of 0.5%  above Bank of England base  rate when his fixed rate 
product expired. Hes later found that wasnt the case  and his mortgage moved onto 
the SVR.
Mr J wants NRAM  to refund the additional interest hes paid over the years  because of its 
unfairly high interest  rate.
background
In 2004 Mr J took out an interest only mortgage  of around £192,000 with Northern Rock 
through a mortgage broker. The mortgage  was taken out with a fixed rate that expired in 
2006. Mr J then took out an 18 month  fixed rate in 2006.
In late 2007/early 2008 Mr J didnt take out a new product before Northern Rock collapsed 
and was nationalised. His mortgage  was transferred to NRAM Limited.  In 2016 it was 
transferred again  to Landmark Mortgages Limited. 
Weve been told by NRAM that because  Mr Js complaint  began  before the mortgage was 
transferred to Landmark, NRAM  Limited  will take responsibility for this matter. Ive referred to 
Mr Js lender as NRAM throughout this decision,  although Im aware his current lender is 
Landmark. 
Mr J is unhappy that hes not been  able to take out a new interest rate product since 
Northern Rock collapsed.  He cant remortgage elsewhere because hes in negative  equity 
and Mr J says hes now trapped with his current lender and hes paying an unfairly  high 
interest rate.
Mr J complained to NRAM in 2016 but it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr J brought his 
complaint to us.
NRAM didnt give its consent  for us to look at any part of Mr J complaint  that went  back  
further than February  2010. Our investigator thought about our rules,  and said which  parts of 
the complaint  he thought we could  and couldnt  look at. He also went on to give his view 
about the parts of the complaint  we could look at.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators findings.  Mr Js said he cant sleep  at night because 
hes so worried that his mortgage interest  rate will increase. Hes also worried that property 
prices may fall following Brexit. Mr J thinks hes already in negative  equity but he thinks this 
position could  get worse.  He asked that an ombudsman look at his case  again. 
Ref: DRN12827442I issued a jurisdiction  decision in April 2019 setting out which  parts of Mr Js complaint we 
could and couldnt look at. I said we couldnt look at Mr Js complaint that:
-in 2004 he was told that his mortgage  would become  a tracker rate when his fixed  
rate product expired;  or
-that he was promised there would always be interest rate products available to him.
I found that these  issues  had been  brought to us out of time according to our rules, so we 
dont have the power to look at these parts of the complaint.
In this decision Ive turned to the merits of the parts of Mr Js complaint that we can look into.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision dated 28 May 2019. It said:
I appreciate  why Mr J is anxious  about the financial situation he now finds himself in. I dont 
underestimate his strength  of feeling about this matter and I understand why this issue is so 
important to him. 
is Mr J trapped  on an unfairly high interest rate?
Mr J says hes trapped with a mortgage lender  that doesnt offer any new mortgage  interest  
products. 
The lending environment in which Mr J took his mortgage out in 2004  was very different to 
the present day. Now, its much harder to get an interest  only mortgage. Mr Js also said that 
he suspects he is in negative equity. As a result, he says its not been  possible for him to 
move his mortgage elsewhere, and so hes had to pay the interest rate NRAM and then 
Landmark has charged.
Mr Js mortgage is on a discounted loyalty rate that tracks NRAMs SVR. Since Landmark 
took over the mortgage its been  linked  to Landmarks SVR, but in practice much the same 
rate continues to be applied.  NRAM  was prevented from offering new interest rate products 
by the terms of its government bailout because of legal restrictions  on government bodies  
competing against the market. I therefore think its reasonable  that NRAM didnt make new 
interest rate products  available to Mr J (or any other  borrower) following  the collapse of 
Northern Rock and its subsequent nationalisation.  Quite simply,  it wasnt able to.
That doesnt  apply  to Mr Js current lender,  Landmark, which  is a private company. Theres 
no legal  or government policy bar to Landmark  offering new interest rate products as there  
was with a government-owned lender. Nor is there anything in its regulatory  permissions 
which would prevent it doing so.
Landmark could  offer new interest rate products to its customers. But its chosen not to do 
so. It says that its not an active lender,  and isnt trying to attract new customers  through  
offering low rates. It says its taken a commercial  decision  in the interests of the financial 
management of its business to maintain all its customers on the SVR once their previous 
interest rate products  expire. To that extent, its not treating Mr J any differently to any of its 
other customers.
Ref: DRN12827443Landmark is a closed lender in that its not taking on new business,  but its still regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  and has to follow its rules. But theres nothing in the FCAs 
rules that says a lender has to offer new interest  rates to its customers  once their old ones 
expire. The rules say that a lender has to treat its customers fairly taking account of their 
best interests; it has to communicate with them in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way; it has 
to notify them of changes to their monthly payments; and it mustnt  take advantage of 
customers who cant move their mortgages  elsewhere by treating them differently to other 
customers with similar characteristics.
In this case, NRAM has notified  Mr J of changes to his payments from time to time. It isnt 
treating Mr J differently  to its other  customers  all customers  must  stay on the SVR once  
their products expire,  just like Mr J. So I dont  think NRAM has been in breach of any of the 
regulators rules in not offering a new rate.
I dont think NRAM, has acted in breach of the terms of the mortgage  agreement.  Mr Js 
mortgage offer from 2006 set out that he would pay a fixed  rate for 18 months, and 
thereafter the SVR and/or  Northern Rocks variable loyalty discount rate for the rest of the 
term of the mortgage.  Northern Rocks  loyalty discount rate is a variable rate that operates at 
a discount to its SVR,  awarded to long term customers  of the bank so long as payments 
were maintained in full. Nothing in the mortgage  offer or the mortgages terms and conditions 
say that Mr J would  be entitled to another  fixed interest rate after that one expires.
I know that its common for borrowers  to take a fixed or tracker rate product  and then, at or 
shortly before its expiry,  take another rate rather than revert to the SVR.  Sometimes  thats 
with their existing lender;  sometimes its with another lender. But as I say, theres nothing in 
Mr Js mortgage agreement that says hes entitled to a new rate  and thats also true of 
most other lenders mortgage agreements too. 
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage contract, 
that required NRAM, or Landmark, to offer new interest rates. Nor is it under any other  legal 
obligation to do so.
However, thats not the end of the matter though. My role is to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I do that by taking  into account the law, regulators  rules 
and guidance,  and good industry practice  but ultimately Im not constrained  by them  if I 
think fairness requires  me to do something  else. 
So the question  I have to answer  is whether, taking into account the rules and the mortgage 
terms, its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that Mr J isnt able to apply for a new 
interest rate thats lower  than the SVR.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Ive taken into account everything  Ive set out above. 
Its very unfortunate  that, through  no fault of his own and through  a series  of events entirely 
out of his control, Mr J has ended  up with a closed book lender that doesnt offer new rates.  
Mr Js lender has decided  not to offer new interest  rates to any customers, including Mr J. 
Under current law and regulations, thats  a decision it is entitled to take.  
Mr J might,  in theory, have been  able to access lower  rates if he moved  his mortgage 
elsewhere. I think Mr J hasnt been  able to take his mortgage elsewhere because  he has an 
interest only mortgage, and because he has a high loan-to-value (and potentially hes in 
negative equity). Its now much harder to get an interest only mortgage than it was, and 
Ref: DRN12827444lending criteria are much stricter. So if Mr J were  to move his mortgage elsewhere its likely 
he would  have to take a repayment mortgage   and the payments would be higher. Given  
that for most  of this time Mr Js said that hes in negative equity, I think another lender would 
have been unlikely to have accepted an application.
As a result, it seems moving his mortgage wasnt a practical option  in Mr Js case.  But I think 
the main reason he hasnt been able to do that is because of external changes  in his 
circumstances and the wider lending environment   changes which arent part of his 
mortgage contract,  that arent within NRAMs control, and couldnt have been foreseen by 
any party  when he took the mortgage out. There doesnt appear to be a contractual barrier to 
Mr J moving his mortgage elsewhere, such as an early repayment charge (ERC). 
Ive thought carefully about the fairness  of the SVR and whether it has operated this variable 
rate in line with how it said the rate could change in the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage. Ive looked  closely at the terms and conditions that apply  to Mr Js mortgage  and 
the mortgage offers that were given to him both when he first took out a Northern Rock 
mortgage, and when he took out a fixed rate in 2006. 
Clause 7 of the General Conditions (2004) sets out the circumstances in which  Northern 
Rock could change  its SVR, either by increasing  it or reducing it.
Clause 7.1 simply says We may reduce the SVR at any time. This clause is broadly drafted 
although I dont  think its clearly to Mr Js detriment that his mortgage  lender can reduce 
interest rates at any time as this would lower the cost of his mortgage. It doesnt  say 
anywhere in the mortgage paperwork that Northern Rocks  SVR must track the Bank of 
England base rate or that any fall in Bank  of England base rate will be passed through to the 
SVR.
Ive also looked  at when Northern Rock  said it could increase its SVR.  This would be a 
greater concern and would  increase the cost of borrowing  for mortgage customers like Mr J. 
In Clause 7.2 Northern Rock said any one or more of the following reasons should apply 
before the SVR will be increased.  The reasons include  there has been,  or we reasonably 
expect there  to be in the future, a general trend  to increase interest rates  on mortgages 
generally or mortgages  similar to yours . Other reasons include good  commercial reasons, 
to maintain a prudent  level of profitability and increased administrative costs. In my 
experience, these are fairly standard reasons given by mortgage lenders at the time to 
increase SVRs. I think its reasonable that the mortgage lender might consider increasing the 
SVR if theres an increase  in Bank of England base rate under Clause 7.2.
Mr Js said that NRAM  passed on increases  in the Bank of England base  rate quickly  to its 
SVR, but it didnt pass on decreases in Bank  of England base rates at the same pace. As 
Ive already said, there isnt anything in the terms and conditions  that said the SVR would 
track Bank of England  base rate at all, and certainly  not within any given timeframe. Ive also 
thought about the level of the SVR over the period  Mr J is complaining about. While it is 
significantly higher  than other new interest rate products offered by other lenders, such  as 
fixed rates  or tracker rates  which customers typically have to be eligible  for and can often 
attract a product fee, I think its broadly  similar  to other lenders SVR rates. The level of the 
SVR applied to Mr Js mortgage doesnt  strike me as being unreasonably high.
The SVR has changed between 2016 and 2018. As the Bank of England base  rate has gone 
down and then back up again in that time, the SVR has changed by broadly the same 
amount at broadly the same time.  As Mr Js mortgage rate is linked to the SVR,  albeit with a 
Ref: DRN12827445discount, his interest  rate has changed at the same  time. Its a variable rate, and it doesnt  
automatically track the Bank of England  base  rate. But base rate is one of the factors  under 
clause 7.2 that the lender  can take into account in setting the SVR,  so I dont think  the 
changes in 2016 to 2018 were unfair.
Taking the facts  of this case into account, and taking into account the law, rules  and my 
findings about the level of Mr Js lenders  SVR, I dont think  I can fairly uphold this part of the 
complaint.
what do I think should happen now?
It may be possible  for Mr J to move  his mortgage to another  lender which  can offer lower  
interest rates. Because he has an interest only mortgage, and he believes his property  is in 
negative equity, it might be difficult. But there are lenders who offer interest  only mortgages 
 and Mr J may be able to afford a repayment mortgage or to have part of his mortgage on a 
repayment basis and part on interest  only. I think Mr Js options should  be explored.
Im aware that other lenders with closed books,  or who have withdrawn from sections of the 
market, have made arrangements for their borrowers to consult mortgage advisers to see 
whether they can move  elsewhere to a lender that would offer new interest rates. I think  that 
represents good industry practice, which is one of the factors  I have to take into account  in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
I think it is fair that NRAM should  arrange for Mr J to meet with a regulated mortgage adviser 
who is able to offer regulated mortgage advice about specific  mortgages Mr J may be able to 
apply for, and to help him with an application. If Mr J is not able to move his mortgage  at 
present, that advisor may be able to help identify  what steps  be could take to help him to 
work towards moving  his mortgage  elsewhere,  and on a more  competitive rate of interest,  in 
the future.
Ultimately it is for Mr J to decide whether he wishes to explore his options with a mortgage 
adviser. But, should Mr J wish to do so, NRAM should make the arrangements for Mr J to 
have such advice without  cost to him.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr J was disappointed  with my provisional  decision  and didnt agree that his mortgage 
lender wasnt responsible  for the position  he now finds himself in. Mr J still feels  Northern 
Rock is responsible for him being  trapped on what he considers to be an unfairly high 
mortgage interest rate today.
Mr J has asked various questions about  our process  and I will arrange for our investigator to 
clarify with him directly about  these  queries.
NRAM responded to my provisional decision to say it made Mr J aware that he could get 
help with his mortgage requirements if he wanted to. Mr J didnt ask for or enquire about any 
of these services so it doesnt think its fair that this complaint is upheld  against  NRAM now. 
NRAM has said that Mr Js new lender, Landmark,  offers a referral  service to StepChange,  
who offer free independent  mortgage  advice. 
Ref: DRN12827446my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and thought  about  the further arguments made 
by both parties to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the arguments that Mr J is making.  And Im mindful that hes concerned that 
regulations may change  as a result of media  pressure, and that what  the regulator currently 
allows may change  in the future. I can only make my decision in the context of current  
regulation and legislation. Im not able to predict  where the regulator may change  its stance 
in the future. As things stand today, I think NRAM has acted reasonably  with respect  to the 
complaint made here. I havent  seen any new evidence or further arguments that have led 
me to depart from my provisional  findings.
NRAMs argued that its offered the help Im proposing to Mr J before and he didnt  want  to 
take it. Ive looked  at the evidence sent by NRAM to show what support its made available  
to Mr J in the past. I cant see that it has arranged for Mr J to meet  with a regulated 
mortgage broker to discuss  his wider financial situation and what  mortgage products might  
be suitable for him from other lenders. NRAM has signposted Mr J to various debt charities, 
either at the end of letters about the way hes managing his mortgage  account, or via its 
website. 
But I want to be clear  to NRAM, that isnt what Im proposing here.  I think NRAM needs to 
arrange for Mr J to discuss his financial situation  with a regulated mortgage broker  for advice 
about what mortgage products might be available to him in the wider mortgage  market 
today. I think it is reasonable  that NRAM arranges  this to help Mr J in his current  situation, 
and it should be at no cost to him. If NRAM wont make these arrangements for Mr J, it 
should allow  Mr J to make his own arrangements to see a regulated  mortgage  broker of his 
choice, and NRAM should pay for the reasonable cost of this. 
To resolve  this complaint  I think NRAM needs to do something differently. That is why this 
complaint is being  upheld in part against NRAM. I think  it is fair that NRAM takes this action 
now to help its customer, Mr J.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against NRAM Limited.
-I dont uphold the part of this complaint about  the fairness of NRAMs SVR or the fact 
that Mr Js lender isnt offering new interest rate products to him; 
-However, I think NRAM Limited should now make arrangements  for Mr J to have 
access to regulated mortgage  advice at no cost to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1282744