K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain because Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs N bought  a travel insurance  policy online through a price comparison website. 
Their policy  is provided by IPA.
Unfortunately, Mrs N fell ill while on holiday and was admitted to hospital.  Mrs N was given a
diagnosis of acute postmenopausal bleeding and small uterine  fibroid.
Mr and Mrs N made  a claim with IPA for the cost of Mrs Ns medical treatment, but IPA said
the claim wasnt covered.  IPA said this was because Mrs N had been diagnosed with fibroids
in 2016 and had subsequent GP consultations  and a referral to a specialist for this condition.
IPA said, if Mrs N had told it she had fibroids when buying the policy, it would never have
sold her the cover.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs N complained to IPA and then brought their complaint  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think IPA had acted unfairly  or unreasonably by turning down the
claim. Mr and Mrs N didnt  agree,  so the complaint was passed to me. I made  my provisional 
decision about the complaint in March 2020. In it, I said: 
IPA says this policy doesnt  cover pre-existing medical conditions and that Mr and Mrs N
misrepresented facts about Mrs Ns medical  history to it when they took out this policy.
I think the principles set out in the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure  and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to apply these to the
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate  remedy  if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered  when deciding  whether a
consumer has taken  reasonable  care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were.
I asked IPA to provide  evidence to show the questions Mr and Mrs N were  asked  when they
bought their policy through a price  comparison website  in July 2018.  The question  they were
asked on the price comparison website said;
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing medical condition?
To ensure you have  the right cover for your trip it is important  you tell us about your
medical history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate  your
policy. Examples include diabetes, high blood  pressure, depression and respiratory
conditions (including  asthma). You do not need  to declare pregnancy as a medical
condition.
Ref: DRN15332942I think this is a clear question, to which Mr and Mrs N answered no. Ive considered Mrs Ns
medical records, as well as what Mrs N has told us about her medical history to decide
whether I think she took reasonable care when answering this question.
Mrs N says she suffered from irregular  periods and, although she has fibroids, she never
had any symptoms as a result of these. Mrs N also says she never had medication,
treatment, surgery or investigations  for fibroids.
Mrs Ns medical  records  show  she consulted her doctor in July 2016 with a two-month
history of menorrhagia. Following a scan in September 2016, Mrs N was noted as having
period problems and fibroids  and was prescribed medication.
In May 2017  and June 2017, Mrs N was again noted  as having menorrhagia.  Mrs Ns
medical records say she had a further scan in July 2017, which  again showed  fibroids.  Her
GP notes say she consulted for fibroids in August 2017, at which point she was referred  to a
gynaecologist.
A gynaecologists letter  to Mrs Ns GP dated September  2017 says Mrs N presented  with
menorrhagia, gives  a diagnosis of fibroid uterus and asks the GP to prescribe medication.
Mrs Ns GP records dont  have any entries  about  consultations between  the date of this
letter and Mrs Ns subsequent claim with IPA.
I understand Mrs N says she wasnt examined by the gynaecologist and fibroids werent the
reason for the referral.  However, Mrs N had two scans in the two years leading  up to buying
the policy, both of which are recorded  in her medical records  as showing fibroids.
Overall, I think a reasonable consumer would have realised this was something  IPA would
want to know about in response  to the question asked about pre-existing medical conditions.
So, I dont think Mrs N took reasonable care when answering the above  question in the way
she did.
Before completing the purchase of their policy, Mr and Mrs N were  directed to the following
information:
Important Information
Please note that the policy you have selected  is not designed to cover claims arising
from pre-existing medical conditions. If you can answer no to the following
questions, please select I Agree to proceed
1) Within  the last 5 years have  you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy
suffered any medical  condition that has required prescribed medication and/or
treatment including  surgery, tests  or investigations?
I also dont think Mrs N satisfied the criteria  to tick I Agree to the important information. This
is because her medical records show she was prescribed  medication  and had tests  or
investigations for a medical condition within the previous five years   regardless of what  she
considered this medical condition to be.
I think Mrs N made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA,  so IPA is entitled to apply
the relevant remedy.  These remedies apply regardless of whether there is a connection
Ref: DRN15332943between the consumers medical history  and the reason for their claim.  In cases  of careless
misrepresentation, if the insurer can show  it would  not have entered into the contract on any
terms, then the insurer  can avoid the contract and refuse all claims but should  return the
premium paid.
Im satisfied here that, if Mrs N had told IPA she had a pre-existing medical condition, it
wouldnt have sold her this policy. Instead, Mrs N would have been  directed back via the
price comparison  website  to a list of insurance  policies  from insurers  who do offer cover for
pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs N would  then have been presented with a range of policy  options  from different
providers at different  prices and with different benefits. I dont think I can fairly say, on the
balance of probabilities, that its more likely than not Mr and Mrs N would have chosen to
take out a similarly  branded  but more expensive policy  with IPA which did cover pre-existing
medical conditions .
IPA has now said it is prepared to refund  Mr and Mrs Ns policy  premium  to them, in line with
the remedy for careless misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs N but I think this is a fair and reasonable offer in the
circumstances and I wont be recommending that IPA should  do anything  more.
IPA responded  to my provisional decision  and said it had nothing further to add. Mr and 
Mrs N confirmed theyd received my provisional  decision  but also said they had nothing 
further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information nor made any additional  submissions,  I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA has made  an offer to refund  Mr and Mrs N the premiums  they
paid for their travel insurance policy. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances, so I
direct that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay this to Mr and Mrs N.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1533294