K820x#14complaint
Mr I complained that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited refused to cover  his private health 
insurance claim. 
Sadly, Mr I passed away while we were considering the complaint. His wife, Mrs I, has 
provided information to show  she is authorised to deal with complaint on behalf of her late 
husbands estate.  
background
The late Mr I had health insurance through Mrs Is policy with AXA for many years. He had 
several medical conditions including peripheral  arterial disease  (PAD). The claims history 
shows AXA paid claims for treatments for Mr Is PAD over several years.
In January 2018 AXA wrote to Mr I to say it would  only cover the treatment for his diabetes, 
PAD and associated  symptoms including complications of a toe amputation until a given 
date in April 2018.  AXA said Mr Is medical history showed those were chronic medical  
conditions, as defined  by the policy, which the policy didnt cover. 
In mid 2018  Mr I needed revascularisation bypass surgery for the blocked  artery in his leg. 
AXA declined the claim because it said the revascularisation was to treat Mr Is PAD.
Mrs I, on behalf of Mr Is estate, wants AXA to pay the claim for the surgery.  She accepted 
Mr I had a history of PAD. But she said the policy  did cover  acute  flare-ups of chronic  
conditions and Mr Is inability to walk because of the pain caused by PAD was an 
unexpected acute flare-up. 
Mrs I also said shed researched Mr Is medical  conditions and if AXA was aware  he was at 
risk of developing  PAD, and there would be no cover for the chronic condition, it should  have 
made Mr I aware years ago when he had a chance to move to an insurer  who provided 
better cover for chronic conditions. Instead  AXA excluded  medical  conditions  when he was 
over 60 years old when it was very difficult to get alternative cover.
Our investigator said AXA had fairly declined the claim for Mr Is surgery. He explained AXA 
wouldnt need to anticipate specific conditions its policyholders may develop and tell them 
the condition may not be covered. But if Mrs I thought  there was an issue with terms of cover  
not being clear  when  she bought the policy she may want  to consider complaining about the 
sale of the policy.
Mrs I, on behalf of the later Mr Is estate, doesnt  accept AXA fairly declined  the claim and 
wants an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  for Mrs Is loss and to disappoint her as I dont  uphold this complaint.
I have to decide whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN16385802Unfortunately, Mr I suffered from ill health  for several years. I understand that when AXA told 
Mr I that it wouldnt cover certain medical conditions it would  have been  very difficult  for him 
to get alternative  cover.  But our investigator has correctly explained that AXA didnt need to 
predict what specific medical conditions Mr I might have developed in the future and warn 
him that specific conditions may become chronic and not be covered. AXA needed  to make 
the policy terms about cover clear  and if Mrs I has concerns about  that issue  she would need 
to make a separate complaint about the sale of the policy.
As to the claim, the policy doesnt cover chronic conditions. The policy defines chronic 
condition as:
a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following  characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups and/or  tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back  or is likely to come back.
From the claim history  and medical  notes I can see Mr I had a long history of PAD with 
complications due to his toe amputation. Im satisfied that Mr Is PAD met the chronic  
condition policy definition.  Im also satisfied that the claim for surgery  related to Mr Is PAD.
The policy does cover:
in-patient treatment of acute exacerbations or complications (flare-ups)  in order to 
quickly return the chronic condition to its controlled  state.
But AXA considered the information  about PAD from the NHS website and found the 
symptoms Mr I experienced were typical of PAD. And from Mr Is medical information the 
treating physician  considered revascularisation  of the artery of Mr Is leg in 2016. Ive seen 
no medical evidence  to support Mrs Is suggestion  that Mr Is surgery in 2018 was to treat an 
acute exacerbation  or complications  in order to quickly return Mr Is PAD to its controlled 
state. 
On the evidence I have AXA made a fair and reasonable decision to decline  the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I on behalf of 
the late Mr Is estate  to accept or reject my decision before  9 August 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1638580