K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when he 
experienced financial difficulty. 
background
Mr C said he began  to experience some financial difficulties at the beginning of 2018. His 
household income had been reduced. So he contacted Nationwide  for assistance. Mr Cs 
loan with Nationwide was for £367  per month.  And it was his biggest outgoing. So he spoke 
to Nationwide  and went through  his income  and expenditure.  A period of two months  
interest only payments  was agreed on the loan. 
Mr C said he was aware it would cause arrears. But he felt it was necessary and Nationwide 
assured him it could  be dealt with amicably  at another  point. When  he spoke to Nationwide  
some months later he found it obstructive and hostile. Mr C felt the building  society was 
trying to make him default so it could  impose  harsher penalties.  When Mr C became 
overdrawn for a day in August 2018 Nationwide  removed his overdraft  without notice. It was 
reinstated but led to multiple charges for failed direct debits. So Mr C would like Nationwide  
to provide a written explanation.
Nationwide apologised in Mr C felt let down. A re-write of the loan had been discussed  as a 
possible option. But Nationwide  had told Mr C he would need to meet the criteria for that to 
be considered. Unfortunately the building societys information suggested  a re-write wasnt 
affordable. And it couldnt agree to a plan that didnt appear to be affordable. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response. So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  understand Mr Cs frustration. But she felt 
Nationwide had acted  sympathetically by providing a repayment  plan and working with Mr C 
 even though there  were issues along  the way. 
Mr C didnt agree. He is unhappy different departments  within Nationwide didnt 
communicate with each other. Nationwide was his main financial provider. But he had to 
contact different departments one at a time.  And each asked for a separate  financial 
assessment. Mr C said it felt like a policy designed  to wear him down. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how difficult this mustve been for Mr C. Nationwide provided  most of his 
financial services. But when he asked  for help Mr C felt it was being deliberately difficult.  So 
Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr C and Nationwide have said.
When Nationwide became aware  of Mr Cs financial  difficulties I would expect  it to respond 
positively and sympathetically. But Mr C said he had to repeatedly provide information to 
different departments within  the building society. And it felt like Nationwide  was trying to 
force him to just pay what they demanded. 
Ref: DRN16332222It mustve  been extremely frustrating having to repeat the same  information. And I can 
understand why Mr C felt Nationwide was being  deliberately difficult. Different  departments 
within Nationwide didnt  seem to communicate with each other in a way that mightve  helped  
Mr C. But its not the role of this service to tell Nationwide how to run its business.  Thats  the 
role of its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.  So, as our investigator has explained,  
we cant ask Nationwide to review how it passes information from department to department. 
While I understand Mr Cs frustration its not something I can tell Nationwide  to review.
I can see Nationwide looked  at Mr Cs income  and expenditure.  I know  Mr C feels he was 
given the impression a re-write wouldnt be a problem. But Nationwide  felt there wasnt  
enough of a surplus to meet the criteria for a re-write of the loan. And I dont think  it wouldve 
been a responsible action  for Nationwide to agree to a plan that it didnt  think  Mr C could  
afford. 
When Nationwide became aware  of Mr Cs difficulties  it reviewed  his accounts. Nationwide  
initially withdrew the overdraft facility on his account  and then asked him to repay  £800  of his 
overdraft. Mr C wasnt in a position to repay the amount immediately. So Nationwide  agreed 
a repayment plan with Mr C to reduce the overdraft facility. I do appreciate Mr Cs concerns 
that he felt it became harder to manage his finances afterwards. And he was charged for a 
number of failed  direct debits as a result. But I cant say Nationwide has breached the terms 
and conditions of Mr Cs account by deciding to alter his overdraft limit. 
Ive looked very carefully at everything Mr C has said. I can see Mr C feels very upset about 
the treatment he received  from Nationwide after he got into financial difficulty. And I realise 
Mr C felt he received either  more  supportive, or at least clearer, guidance  from other 
financial organisations he had to deal with. Mr C says he was only able to manage with 
some help from elsewhere and through his own diligence. 
I do sympathise with the circumstances  Mr C found  himself in. And I can understand his 
frustration at the difficulties he then experienced while trying to discuss alternative 
arrangements with Nationwide. But the role of this service is to see if Nationwide has made 
any mistakes. And I am afraid I agree with our investigator that it hasnt done  anything  
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I do not uphold  this complaint and wont  be asking Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1633222