K820x#14Complaint
Ms A complains  that Monzo  Bank Ltd repeatedly  blocked and then closed her account 
without explanation. She also says Monzo  took too long to release her funds. 
Background
Ms A had a current with Monzo.
Between September 2018 and 20 November 2018,  Monzo carried  out three  separate 
reviews of 
Ms As account. Whilst it carried out its reviews it placed a block  on the account. This meant  
Ms A couldnt access the money in her account or make any transactions out of the account.
Monzo completed its first two reviews within two days. The third review of Ms As account 
started on 31 October 2018  and was completed on 20 November 2018. Following its third 
review, Monzo decided to close  Ms As accounts  and wrote  to her to let her know  she 
needed to make alternative  banking arrangements. Monzo released  the money in Ms As 
account on 22 November  2018.
Ms A says shes operated her account properly since opening it in May 2018 and hasnt 
done anything  wrong. Shes explained that the repeated blocking of her account caused her 
a great  deal of stress and inconvenience.  Shes  said she was left without any money  for 
everyday expenses including food and rent. And had to borrow money  from friends to get by, 
which was embarrassing  and upsetting. Ms A has also explained  that at the time she was 
unwell and undergoing treatment for a very serious health  condition. So not being able to 
access her accounts made  her already stressful  situation much worse.
Ms A complained to the bank. Monzo  said it hadnt done anything  wrong.  And it had blocked 
and then closed  Ms As account in line with the account terms and conditions. Ms A wasnt 
happy with this response. She wants Monzo  to apologise  and give her an explanation for 
why it kept blocking  and then closed her account.  She also wants Monzo to pay her 
compensation for the trouble and upset  shes  been  caused. 
An investigator looked at Ms As complaint. She said Monzo  hadnt  done anything wrong 
when it blocked  and closed Ms As account. Ms A disagreed. Shes  still upset by what  
happened and says Monzo  kept hold of her money  for two months which  caused her a great 
deal of stress and anxiety.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that Ms A has been  so unwell and that what  happened made an 
already difficult situation much harder. Its clear from what  Ms A has told us and the bank 
that she feels very strongly  about her complaint.  And I appreciate Ms A is upset  Monzo 
blocked and closed her account.  But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that 
the bank has done something  that wrong. And in this case, I dont think  it has. Ill explain 
why. 
Ref: DRN10294602Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which  includes the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds  of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017 and the Financial  Conduct Authoritys financial crime requirements, place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses to verify a customers  identity, establish the 
purpose and nature  of the business  relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. Monzo  has 
said that Ms As account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Ms A says she hasnt  done anything which would cause Monzo  to keep blocking and then 
close her account. And that may be the case.  But as Ive already explained businesses have 
a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked  at whats  
happened in this case, Im satisfied that the bank was complying with its legal and regulatory  
obligations when  it blocked Ms As account each time. So, I cant say it has done anything  
wrong. The terms and conditions of Ms As accounts also permit Monzo to block an account. 
Having considered those terms, Im satisfied Monzo acted in line with them.  
The terms and conditions  of the account, which both Monzo  and Ms A had to comply  with 
also say that under  certain circumstances, it could  close  Ms As account immediately. I think 
considering what  happened in this case its fair and reasonable Monzo  took the action it did.   
I can also see that Monzo wrote to Ms A on 20 November  2018, to let her know it was 
closing her account immediately. So, its entitled to close Ms As account as its already 
done.
 
I know Ms A is frustrated  that she hasnt been given  a proper explanation why her account 
was blocked and then closed. But under the terms and conditions Monzo doesnt have to 
give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say Monzo has done  anything wrong by not giving 
Ms A this information  as much as shed like to know.
Ms A says the last time Monzo blocked  her account it kept hold of her money  for two 
months. However, this doesnt appear  to be the case. I say this because  Monzo  has 
provided us with a screen shot showing Ms As funds were paid into a new account  on 22 
November 2018.  So, Im satisfied that Ms As account was blocked for approximately 20 
days, and not two months as Ms A has suggested. Having said that, any review should be 
completed in a timely manner. And having looked  at the enquiries  Monzo  was completing I 
think it carried out the review as quickly  as possible.  I can also see that as soon as it had 
finished it released Ms As funds to her immediately.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Ms A feels about whats  happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  and worrying time. So, I realise  Ms A will be disappointed by my decision, 
but overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Monzo have acted unreasonably 
and treated Ms A unfairly when it blocked and closed  her account. So, Im not going  to ask 
them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ref: DRN10294603ombudsman
Ref: DRN1029460