K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Mr M says American Express Services Europe Limited  (AmEx) mis-sold him 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, AmEx had to make it clear to Mr M that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr M says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent.
AmEx has sent us a copy of Mr Ms application  form for the credit  card.  This included  a 
section on PPI with a box to be ticked if Mr M wanted to take it out. And there  is a tick in the 
box. If Mr M didnt want to take the PPI I think he could  have left the box blank. And Mr M 
shouldnt have signed the application form if he didnt  agree with what it said.
So I think AmEx did make it clear to him that he had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr M 
chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that AmEx  gave  Mr M any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to him. This means AmEx didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mr M. But it did have to make sure he got the information  he needed to decide if 
it was right for him.
Its possible the information AmEx gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he 
wouldve been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  
couldve paid out for significantly longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to sick 
pay. And hes told us he didnt have any savings or other means he couldve used to make 
his repayments  if he wasnt  earning. So the PPI would have been  useful  for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr M off taking it out.
Which means AmEx doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But AmEx will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
AmEx  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  AmEx didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, AmEx has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN11093592what the business needs  to do
AmEx has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. AmEx should also pay back  to Mr M any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
AmEx should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the difference  between 
what Mr M owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. AmEx  should  also pay Mr M 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1109359