K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that PSI-Pay Ltd froze and closed her account.  She wants PSI to allow her 
access to the money remaining in her account.  
background
Mrs O had an account with PSI.
On 16 April 2018, PSI blocked Mrs Os account. This meant she couldnt access the money  
in her account. On 20 April 2018, PSI wrote to Mrs O to let her know it had decided  to close  
her account  immediately. 
Mrs O complained to PSI and said the money in her account was from online gambling sites 
and should be released. PSI said it hadnt done  anything wrong  and had acted in 
accordance with the account terms and conditions. Unhappy with this response, Mrs O 
brought her complaint  to this service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Os complaint.  He said PSI had acted in line with its legal  
and regulatory  obligations when it blocked Mrs Os account. And it hadnt done anything  
wrong when it closed her account. Mrs O disagreed.  She wants PSI to release the money in 
her account.  So the complaint has come to me decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the block of Mrs Os account. Anti-money laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive  obligations on regulated  financial businesses  
to have suitable systems  in place for customer identification. Financial institutions  must also 
establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the origin  of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. PSI 
has said that Mrs Os account  was frozen to meet these  legal requirements.
Mrs O says she hasnt done  anything wrong and she doesnt understand why PSI wont give 
her access  to the remaining money  in the account. Whilst I understand Mrs Os strength of 
feeling, as Ive already explained businesses have  a legal  obligation to comply with various 
laws and regulations.  Having looked at the evidence in this case, I think  its fair and 
reasonable PSI took the action it did when it blocked  Mrs Os account. The terms and 
conditions of Mrs Os account  outline that PSI can block an account. Having considered  
those terms carefully, Im satisfied PSI acted in line with them.  So, Im not going  to ask PSI 
to release any money to Mrs O. 
I know Mrs O wants  PSI to explain the reason it restricted her account. And I can understand 
Mrs Os frustration, especially given the length  of time that has passed. But PSI is under no 
obligation to provide this information to Mrs O, as much  as shed like to know. So, I cant  say 
PSI has done  anything wrong  by not providing  this information to Mrs O.
Ref: DRN13927242account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Section 23.4 of the terms and conditions of Mrs Os account confirm PSI can close  the 
account immediately.  It states:
we may at our discretion  suspend or otherwise  restrict the functionality of your 
ecoAccount and your right to request Transactions and receive  eMoney  transfers  or 
close Your ecoAccount at any time. 
Ive seen a copy  of an email which PSI sent to Mrs O dated 20 April 2018 informing her that 
her account  had been closed and funds frozen. So, Im satisfied that PSI has complied with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
I appreciate that the closure of the account has caused Mrs O inconvenience.  But the bank 
can make  commercial decisions about  who it offers banking services to. They  cannot unfairly 
discriminate against  a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do business with 
individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide  who they want to 
contract with. And Im satisfied that PSI has exercised its commercial decision  legitimately  
when it decided to close Mrs Os account. So, I cannot fairly and reasonably say its done 
anything wrong.
In summary,  whilst I acknowledge  Mrs Os frustrations with the situation  relating  to her 
account. And that the account  being frozen and closed impacted  on her. I dont  think PSI 
failed to properly  follow its own procedures. So, Im not going to ask PSI to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1392724