K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that he was mis-sold  a packaged  bank account  called  a Select Added Value 
Account (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mr I took out a SAVA in August 2005 which incurred a monthly  fee of £7. 
Mr I says he chose to take out the SAVA  because Lloyds told him it was the only way he 
could increase his overdraft facility.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Is complaint  and decided  that Lloyds didnt mis-sell the 
SAVA. Mr I disagrees so the complaint  has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Is complaint.
Firstly I need to consider  whether or not Mr I was aware the SAVA  was optional and whether 
he was given a clear choice in out taking the account.
I think its more likely than not that he was aware and I say this for the following  reasons.
Mr I had previously  had a fee free account. So I think he knew that fee free accounts  were 
available. 
Mr I says he was interested  in increasing his overdraft facility.  I think  its more likely  than not 
that he wouldve  been aware  that using an overdraft wasnt the only way he could borrow 
money from Lloyds or elsewhere if he needed  it. So I think  Lloyds discussed  with him that 
the SAVA provided a fee and interest  free £50 arranged overdraft facility  and this appealed 
to him.
I can see from his SAVA  statements that he didnt make significant use of the overdraft  for 
several months after opening the SAVA. So I dont think he had an immediate financial 
demand that drove him to take the SAVA  when he didnt need to.
So I think Mr I was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the SAVA.
Lloyds advised  Mr I to take out the SAVA. So, Lloyds  needed  to provide Mr I with sufficient 
information about the SAVA to make  an informed choice. And in recommending  the SAVA, it 
also needed to take adequate steps  to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Is 
circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including AA breakdown cover,  mobile phone 
insurance and sentinel  card protection. And it offered the fee and interest free £50 arranged  
overdraft facility. 
Ref: DRN11791562I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mr I about the SAVA but I think  it 
wouldve been of interest to him in his circumstances.  The AA breakdown service covered  
Mr I whether he was driving  a vehicle or simply  a passenger. Lloyds has provided evidence  
that he had a mobile phone and registered it for the insurance cover shortly  after taking out 
the SAVA. And he used and benefitted from the overdraft facility several months later.  And 
there was nothing in his circumstances that would have stopped  him using any of the 
benefits.
So in my view the SAVA was suitable for Mr I. And there was no information that he didnt  
receive from Lloyds that would likely  have put him off taking  out the SAVA. So I dont think 
Mr I lost out when Lloyds sold him the SAVA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1179156