K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he lost out as the value of his tax free lump  sum reduced between the 
date he requested it from Scottish  Equitable  plc (trading  as AEGON) and the date it was paid 
to him. 
background
Mr M said he reached his retirement age and wanted to take his tax free lump  sum. When he 
first asked the fund was worth about  £205,000. By the time the requested the tax free 
amount it had fallen  to £202,000. He said AEGON said he had to have a conversation about 
fees and costs and this caused delay. He decided  to go ahead but was told it would take four 
weeks but it took eight weeks.  When he received payment in November 2018 he was paid 
about £46,000 and not the at least £50,000 he expected. He felt he shouldve  received the 
value when it crystallised and not the lower  value paid. He said he made commitments in 
reliance on the higher  amount.
AEGON said that it sent an offer pack in late September 2018. At that time the transfer figure 
was around £202,000 but wasnt guaranteed and would vary with the underlying 
investments. It had all it needed to proceed  on 12 October 2018 and a claim date of 16 
October was set. By this time the plan value  was about £186,773. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong.
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that while  the initial  transfer value was 
quoted as around £202,000 it was made  clear this value could go up and down and wasnt  
guaranteed. He considered whether AEGON had caused any unreasonable  delay. Mr M had 
been sent the offer pack in late September 2018  and he confirmed he wished to proceed  on 
16th October  and the forms were received on 18th October. AEGON said they processed his 
claim within two working days of receiving his forms. The plan value was then transferred on 
23 October at which time it was worth around £186,000, and was received on 2 November  
2018 into the flexi access wrapper. The value available for payment on 13th November 2018 
was around £46,000 tax free cash. He didnt think this showed there had been any 
unreasonable delay. Mr M had been provided with details of fund prices between 24 
September and 23 October showing the change  in values which resulted in the overall  
transfer value  and hence affected the tax free cash.  He didnt think  AEGON  were 
responsible for the fall in value 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said the delay between his first instruction on 20th September  and 18th 
October was due to the postal system and it wouldve been quicker if it had used email. The 
loss was around £7.55%. He felt AEGON couldve notified him of a drop in value in excess  
of 5%. He also thought the time lag between 23 October  and 2 November was a long time 
for a BACS transfer.  He had done  a draw down of another pension and it only took two days.  
He also didnt agree  with their calculations base on the fund prices the provided. He was 
less concerned about the value of the retirement  account which  had now increased in value 
and the time lag in the clearance  of the BACS transfer.
AEGON explained  it had quoted fund prices or a generic version  of the fund which had a 
lower annual management charges but the exact version had a 1% a charge.  The figure 
provided for the transfer was correct.  The investigator didnt change  his mind. Mr M still 
didnt agree and queried the number  of units held but AEGON  confirmed  they were  correct 
and provided a detailed analysis of units in each fund type.
Ref: DRN18820102AEGON had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having review the booklet called Your Pension  Information I can see that in the important 
information section  it warned  the investment values change day to day so the withdrawal 
value could be impacted. The notes from the telephone call with the person from AEGON 
Assist also confirmed that the value wasnt guaranteed and could go up and down.  It also 
seems Mr M commented that the value had already fallen by the time of the conversation  so 
he was aware of this. He was also advised the transfer could take several weeks.  So it 
seems that Mr M wouldve been aware  that the value would change and could go up and 
down in value.
AEGON wasnt providing financial advice to Mr M so it wasnt  responsible  for monitoring Mr 
M investment values  nor to warn his about  any changes in value. So I dont think  AEGON 
was obliged to warn Mr M of movement  in excess of 5% or at all.
I have also considered the time taken to process the request and it seems that it was 
processed within the times set out in its service standard so I cannot  see that AEGON was 
responsible for any unreasonable delay.
I have considered the initial delay  which Mr M says was due to postal  delay. But I cannot 
hold AEGON responsible  for that as it was outside of its control. Nor can I direct how 
AEGON carries out its business so I cannot say that AEGON  shouldve dealt with this by 
email.
AEGON has given an explanation as to how the transfer was calculated and explained the 
differences between  the fund values based  on the underlying charging  structure  for each 
individual fund.  While I cannot  check detailed figures  the explanation and detail provided 
appears reasonable. 
So while I can understand Mr M is frustrated this transfer took longer than that of another 
provider, I dont think AEGON did anything wrong  and I cannot uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1882010