K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Anglo Pacific International plc mis-sold her a marine  transit insurance policy.
background
Mrs S was moving overseas, so she enlisted the services of Anglo Pacific.  Its responsibility 
was to arrange for the packing of her belongings, loading these into a container,  arranging 
port and customs clearances and delivering  her effects to her new address.
Anglo Pacific  is registered with the Financial  Conduct Authority as an insurance broker. This 
means it can provide  access to insurance  policies underwritten by other companies. In this 
case it sold Mrs S a marine  transit  policy.
Unfortunately when Mrs S arrived in the USA she discovered that some of her possessions 
had been damaged. When  she tried to make a claim it was declined  because she didnt 
have the necessary cover in place.
Mrs S has a number of concerns about  what happened. For example, she says the 
insurance she bought was mis-sold because it didnt  provide the cover she was told it would. 
She thinks Anglo Pacific should meet her claim  of over £4,000 for damaged goods.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mrs S disagreed and so her complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mrs S says she was originally told by Anglo Pacific  it would be able to insure items using the 
packing inventory.  But ultimately  it wasnt able to do this due the way the packers had 
completed the form. She says it left everything  until the last moment and were chasing for 
paperwork as she boarded the plane.  Mrs S says she was then told she could be insured up 
to the value of the removal cost, for any damage to her property.
Anglo Pacific  says it informed Mrs S what she needed to do if she wanted insurance cover 
for her belongings from the outset of the process when she sought  a quote for its services.  It 
says she was the only person who couldve completed the proposal form with valuations of 
her property. And it says it made clear to Mrs S the insurance she ended up buying was only 
to cover shipping costs.
As well as the testimony of both parties, Ive reviewed documents provided by Anglo Pacific  
to Mrs S about its services,  including information  about the marine transit insurance. 
Unfortunately there arent call recordings or detailed case  notes of the conversations which  
took place between the parties.
In situations like this, where there are different versions of events and the evidence is 
incomplete, I have to weigh the information  I do have and base my findings  on what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened.
Ref: DRN16575862Mrs S has raised a number of concerns - Im going  to focus on what I think are the three 
main areas  theres  inevitably some overlap between these. The first matter  relates  to 
insurance for her belongings. The second  is about the insurance she ended  up buying.  And 
the third concerns how paying for insurance  cover  usually  works.
My starting point is the documentation provided  by Anglo Pacific about  its services. Theres 
no debate about whether this information was received; indeed Mrs S provided copies of 
much of this paperwork in support of her case.
For example, I can see that in June 2017  Anglo Pacific provided Mrs S with a quote for its 
removal services.  On the second page  it said the following about marine  transit  insurance:
We take every  precaution to protect  your possessions whilst in our care. Nevertheless, we 
recommend you cover  your goods  for a sum equivalent to replacement  value at destination. 
Our insurance covers  loss or damage  in transit from receipt of goods until delivery to final 
residence or store. Cover  is available  for professionally  packed effects at a rate of 3% of the 
value you declare and is effective upon  receipt of your completed insurance proposal  form.
Its reasonably clear at this stage that responsibility  for completion of the proposal form 
would sit with Mrs S. And thats not unusual - shes the only person who couldve provided 
information about the replacement value of her property at her destination and what she 
wanted to insure.
Mrs S confirmed she wanted to use Anglo Pacifics services at the end of October 2017. It 
sent her further  information and some forms to complete. One of these was a shipping  
instruction form which she signed  on 10 November 2017. As well as confirming her 
acceptance of the quote,  she opted for marine transit insurance. But she also ticked the box 
to show she hadnt  completed an insurance  proposal form at that point.
Following receipt of Mrs S shipping instructions, Anglo Pacific  sent her a letter putting the 
wheels in motion. For example, it confirmed packing of her belongings would take place 27-
29 November 2017. Amongst other  matters, on the first page of that letter it also said the 
following about completing her marine insurance  proposal:
Careful consideration is required when completing  your valuation of effects for removal.  
Please note that the extent of our liability is only as good as the valuation that you advise. 
Please complete and return your insurance proposal  form to us no later than one week prior 
to moving day, as the marine transit insurance premium  forms a part of our contract
Specific instructions  were  provided  about  how to complete the proposal  form. For example:
When listing  the goods to be covered,  you will need  to have a reasonably good idea of the 
comparable cost of living in the country  to which your goods are being  shipped. List all 
goods that you wish to cover and their new value at destination on the proposal  form. Goods  
not declared and valued  on this form are not covered under the terms of the insurance 
policy.
I can see Mrs S submitted her insurance  proposal  form on 30 November. This appears to 
have been after the packing  of her belongings had been completed.  And this is consistent 
with her testimony that she was being  chased  for paperwork  by Anglo Pacific  even  as she 
boarded the plane.
Ref: DRN16575863I recognise Mrs S says Anglo Pacific said insurance  for her effects could be based on the 
packing inventory.  But it said this wasnt the case. I can only make sense of this difference in 
account by assuming there was a significant  breakdown in communications.
Looking at the packing inventory I cant see how it couldve  ever been used for the purposes 
of insurance without her going through the same  process required in the proposal  form of 
setting out valuations for her items and identifying what  she wanted cover  for. Only she 
couldve done this.
On balance, Ive not seen  enough to show Anglo Pacific were mainly  responsible  for the 
miscommunication. I also put weight on the various  documents that Mrs S received which 
clearly set out what her responsibilities were with regard  to getting her insurance  in place. 
Had something been agreed between the parties that was at significant variance to this I 
think its more likely  than not this wouldve been  recorded. And Ive not seen anything  along 
these lines.
Mrs S says she was poorly advised about  the insurance she did end up buying. After it 
became clear that it wouldnt be possible  to take out insurance for her itemised possessions 
(because the proposal form or an equivalent  hadnt be completed),  Mrs S says she was told 
she could be insured up to the value of the cost of her removal,  for any damage to her 
property.
Anglo Pacific  disagrees. It says after several conversations over the course of the moving  
process Mrs S shouldve known in order to obtain  cover for damage to her belongings a 
detailed listing of items was required in the approved format stating the quantity, 
replacement value and category/description.
Anglo Pacific  says all it received from Mrs S was a proposal form requesting  cover  for 
shipping costs. In the event  of the loss of the consignment this wouldve compensated her 
for the cost of removals. The cover wasnt actually for her effects.
As well as the other paperwork Mrs S received which Ive already mentioned, theres  also a 
summary of insurance. This was a single page and under the section  headed shipping  
charges it said:
Insurance is offered  to cover the shipping  charges  in the event of a total loss of the whole 
consignment
And on the proposal form which  Mrs S completed  and signed on 30 November 2017, all I 
can see is the figure of £8,650 against  the heading  removal  cost. Nothing was entered  for 
cover her individual items or even a total insured value for these.
Ive also thought about how insurance  usually works. It would  be very unusual  for Anglo 
Pacific to take on risk for damage or loss of Mrs Ss property up to the value of the transit 
costs. I say this because it didnt know the liability it was exposed to by item or in total.
Although I dont have  the full packing  inventory,  I can see page 1 of 12 which implies there 
were over 300 packages.  And many  of these had multiple items. Even if Ms S had been 
offered the cover  she thought she had, she wouldve been substantially  underinsured.
In this situation, where a claim is made, its usual for an insurer  to only pay out a proportion  
of the validated loss. Indeed the summary  of insurance makes this point clear, under the full 
value clause it says:
Ref: DRN16575864The property covered  by this insurance  must be insured to full replacement value at 
destination. If the property is under insured you will only be entitled to recover the proportion 
of the loss that the sum insured bears  to the total value  of the property.
So, by way of example,  if Mrs S really had secured cover for her belongings and the 
premiums she paid on £8,650 represented,  say, 10% of the value of her effects, then the 
most she wouldve  received for her damages  claim of £4,150 wouldve been about £410. 
Infact there  couldve been other  restrictions to be applied to any claim Mrs S made. For 
example there were  conditions about high value items and pairs/sets.
I dont doubt Mrs S is genuine  in her recollection  of the discussion she had with Anglo Pacific 
about insurance cover. There certainly  seems  to have been a problem with communications  
somewhere along the line. But Ive not seen enough to persuade me Anglo Pacific should  
take the blame for this. Rather the documents Ive seen add support to its case.
As an aside,  I note that the letter Anglo Pacific sent to Mrs S about her complaint in May 
2018 didnt constitute what this Service would  consider to be a proper final response.  Thats  
because it didnt set out in full her referral rights  to bring her complaint to us. This hasnt  
caused detriment  in the case because  clearly Mrs S did approach  us with her concerns.
I appreciate that to date this Service hasnt seen  many  complaints about Anglo Pacific.  And 
so I can understand  there may be some learning to be done about our processes. In that 
spirit I suggest it revisits  its approach to ensure it complies with our requirements in future. 
More information  can be found on our website:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/guidance/telling-your-customers.htm
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1657586