K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained on behalf  of a limited company Ill refer to as V. Shes unhappy that 
Highway Insurance  Company Limited (HICL) settled a truck  insurance claim against Vs 
policy when she didnt  think  their truck  had been involved in an accident. 
For ease Ill refer to all actions and comments on behalf of V as being those of Mrs B. 
background
Mrs B complained to HICL in July 2018 when she received her renewal and found out V had 
an open claim against their policy. Another driver  had reported that one of Vs trailers had hit 
their van in February 2018. Mrs B said she didnt know about  the claim.  She said Vs driver 
hadnt been involved in the accident and she was unhappy  HICL hadnt immediately sent out 
an engineer to inspect Vs trailer. She said the trailer was inspected  every eight weeks  and 
their maintenance sheets  showed the trailer  wasnt damaged.
Highway said it had told V about  the claim in March  2018. It said it had been  continuing  to 
investigate the incident since then. It said it hadnt  initially sent an engineer to inspect the 
trailer as V said its driver  wasnt involved. However, it thought  the trackers  Mrs B had 
provided showed Vs truck to be at the scene  of the accident. 
In August  2018  HICL sent an engineer to insect the trailer but it wasnt available. Mrs B then 
told HICL the trailer had been damaged in another accident. Highway said it didnt think it 
could prove  Vs driver wasnt involved in the accident if the case went  to court and settled 
the claim against V. HICL accepted it could have kept Mrs B more  updated and paid her £30 
compensation for that.
Mrs B remained unhappy  and brought her complaint to us. She said Vs driver couldnt have 
been involved in an accident as the trackers showed the driver didnt stop and no one tried 
to stop him. She was also unhappy  that Vs premium had increased as a result.  HICL  said 
Vs premium had been impacted by their no-claims discount (NCD) being affected by the 
claim.
Our investigator thought HICL had settled  the claim fairly and reasonably as it didnt think it 
could prove  Vs driver wasnt to blame.  Mrs B didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. She thought if HICL had acted  sooner  it wouldnt have settled the claim against  
them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the courts.  
However, we look to see that an insurer  has made a fair and reasonable decision thats in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the policy.
The terms and conditions  of Vs policy say that HICL can take over and defend  or settle  a 
claim against V as it sees fit. Again, I look to see that its done  so fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN16516692Ive listened to the call on 9 March.  HICLs  representative spoke to someone  - who Ill refer 
to as Mr B - who confirmed  he worked for V. The representative said HICL  didnt  have a lot 
of information  about the claim so was going  to make further checks with the other  insurer.  
He said the claim would be passed  to a handler who would be in touch.  Im satisfied it did tell 
V about the accident but it didnt get in touch afterwards as it said it would do. So, I can 
understand Mrs Bs frustration at only finding out the claim was ongoing  when the renewal 
was due.
HICL said once it received the trackers they showed Vs truck was at the scene of the 
reported accident, at the time the other driver  said the incident happened. HICL  said the 
other drivers  engineers report showed  damage  at a height that was consistent with being hit 
by a trailer. And it didnt  think Vs driver would have necessarily known hed hit the van and 
thats why he didnt stop. I understand the other driver initially said there was a witness  but 
this wasnt ultimately produced
HICL said the other  drivers insurer had threated to take the case to court. And as HICL 
didnt think it was likely to be able to prove  Vs driver wasnt to blame it settled the claim.  
Ive considered the information HICL used and think it made  a reasonable decision. Thats 
because it was one drivers word  against  the other  and Vs trailer was at the scene  of the 
accident at the time the other driver said it happened. The damage to the van was also 
consistent with being hit by a trailer and I think its reasonable to say the driver might not 
have known hed scrapped the van. I can see HICL settled the claim on a without prejudice 
basis which means V can pursue this separately to HICL if they want to do so themselves.
HICL has accepted it should have  kept Mrs B updated better from March 2018 to when she 
received the renewal in July 2018.  I do think it should have done this, as it said someone  
would be in touch.  Having said that I can see that HICL was waiting to receive  more  
information from the other drivers  insurer. So, even if it had updated  Mrs B sooner I dont 
think it would  have  impacted on the claim itself. However, I can understand why Mrs B was 
surprised to find the claim was still open, given what had been  said in the call in March. So, I 
think HICL should  have been  clearer about what was happening. 
HICL said it didnt send  an engineer  out sooner because Mr B said Vs truck wasnt involved 
in the accident. I can understand why Mrs B thinks if it had done  so HICL might  have sent an 
engineer earlier and therefore  not have settled the claim against  them.  But I think its most  
likely that wouldnt have  made a difference. I say that because  even if an engineers report 
showed there was no damage to Vs trailer  that wouldnt  necessarily  have meant it didnt 
cause the damage  to the van. So taking that into account I think  the £30 HICL has already 
paid is a fair and reasonable  amount for not keeping  her updated.
HICLs told us that the reason Vs premium  was affected was because  their NCD was 
affected. I can see from the policy documents that Vs NCD wasnt protected.  So, it was 
stepped back  in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
In summary,  I think HICL made a fair and reasonable decision thats  in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. And its fairly  compensated Mrs B for not updating her sooner.
Ref: DRN16516693my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1651669