K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Mr C took out a joint mortgage  in 1996 with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest). They were sold payment protection insurance (PPI) jointly  at the same  time. 
Both were covered equally on the PPI policy, which offered a monthly payment in the event 
of either  Mr M or Mr C losing their jobs or becoming  unable to work.
This case is somewhat  unusual in that despite  Mr M and Mr C having a joint mortgage and 
PPI cover it seems Mr C (only)  has already been  independently and exclusively 
compensated by NatWest  for the PPI being mis-sold. 
It seems  NatWest  assessed Mr Cs complaint in 2014 and decided  he had been mis-sold the 
PPI policy. It wrote  to him - again, exclusively  - on 16 January 2015 and awarded him 
compensation based on him having 50% of the PPI cover. 
These events then prompted  Mr M to complain too. But NatWest didnt uphold his complaint 
and it was referred to our service. This is the complaint Im now referring to in this decision.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in January 2019,  setting out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. And I asked both parties to provide any further  
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve had responses from both parties and neither wants to send in any new information or 
arguments. However, NatWest has agreed to compensate Mr M in the light of my provisional  
decision. 
what NatWest  should do to put matters right  
NatWest should  put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt been  sold PPI. It should:
Pay Mr M 50% of the amount he and Mr C jointly paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, NatWest can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  NatWest to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I direct  National Westminster  Bank  Plc to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. 
Ref: DRN12877502Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12877503summary  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M and Mr C took out a joint mortgage in 1996 with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).  
They were sold payment  protection insurance  (PPI) jointly at the same time.  Both were covered 
equally on the PPI policy, which offered a monthly payment  in the event of either Mr M or Mr C losing  
their jobs or becoming  unable to work.
This case is somewhat unusual  in my experience in that despite Mr M and Mr C having  a joint 
mortgage and PPI cover it seems Mr C (only)  has already been  independently and exclusively 
compensated by NatWest  for the PPI being mis-sold.  
It seems NatWest  assessed  Mr Cs complaint  in 2014 and decided he had been mis-sold the PPI 
policy. It wrote to him - again, exclusively - on 16 January 2015 and awarded  him compensation 
based on him having  50% of the PPI cover. 
My understanding is that, perhaps unsurprisingly,  these events then prompted Mr M to complain too. 
But NatWest didnt uphold  his complaint and it is this matter  that has since been referred  to our 
service. This is the complaint Im now referring  to in this decision.
We now also know  that despite complaining more or less directly after Mr C had been paid out by 
NatWest, a legal issue emerged with regard  to the sale of PPI. Unfortunately  this meant Mr Ms 
complaint was put on hold whilst the courts  decided an important matter relating to these  types of 
cases. As this legal matter has been resolved, we can now look at the complaint again in so far as it 
relates to Mr M.
background
One of our adjudicators  has looked into Mr Ms complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld.  But Mr M 
disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so, Im currently intending  to uphold  this complaint.  
As Ive briefly  mentioned above, NatWest assessed Mr Cs complaint  and decided  he had been mis-
sold the policy.  Mr M then complained. And I assume knowing Mr C had already been compensated,  
he expected the same result. NatWest however didnt  agree it had mis-sold the PPI cover to Mr M 
and rejected his complaint.
However, I think any reasonable assessment  of Mr M and Mr Cs circumstances would have shown 
that they were partners.  The bought a house  together and took out a joint mortgage with NatWest, in 
1996. Additionally, they were  sold joint PPI with their mortgage, covering them equally on a 50/50  
basis.
I therefore  think its fair to say that Mr M and Mr C entered into these arrangements jointly. And 
although this was probably a non advised sale, they had a right to be given information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading, so they could  make an informed choice about what they wanted to do 
about mortgage protection. NatWest, in selling  the cover, also had a duty to point out the main  
features of the PPI. 
Ref: DRN12877504I think  its clear NatWest didnt do this because it has already admitted the PPI cover shouldnt have 
been sold to Mr C. I cant say for sure why NatWest made Mr C an independent  offer back in 2015, 
but I note he had a second  job at the time and this would have  meant if hed lost his main  job, he 
would still be employed in the other one. So claiming for unemployment  under the PPI policy would  
have been very difficult, since losing both jobs would  have been unlikely. My understanding is Mr Cs 
second job involved him working more than 16 hours per week.
Ive now looked very carefully  at Mr Ms complaint  points. I dont think  hes right when he says he 
wasnt aware of the PPI, because the evidence  shows he probably was. But I also take into account  
that the sale was in 1996,  now over 20 years ago. So remembering what happened will no doubt be 
difficult.
But I dont think its fair to consider Mr M and Mr Cs complaints completely independently of one 
another. And I think by looking  only at Mr Cs half of the joint policy  and mortgage, NatWest  failed to 
deal with the complaint effectively or indeed, fairly.
In my view,  it has always  been clear that Mr M and Mr C lived together and had also embarked on a 
significant and long-term financial partnership by buying  a house with a joint NatWest mortgage.  
Given the joint PPI cover was not properly sold to Mr C  and that claiming  would  have been difficult  
for him - I think that affected Mr M (his partner) too. I think if theyd both known about the probable 
difficulty Mr C would have had in claiming, they would  have wanted to carefully  and jointly  reconsider 
whether they would have bought the joint PPI policy at all. They would have certainly, in my view, 
wanted to fundamentally change their approach to mortgage protection, but they werent  given that 
chance.
I therefore  dont think they would have gone ahead and bought  this joint policy. By definition, this 
includes Mr M, who is now the only party whose  circumstances and complaint have not been properly  
considered by NatWest. I think Mr M would  have  considered the PPI unsuited  to his and Mr Cs 
circumstances and therefore  poor value  for money.  
In short, I dont think  its fair for NatWest to have  dealt with Mr M and Mr C jointly  at the point of sale  
and to later imply they acted  independently of one another. Mr M and Mr C had a right to be treated  
jointly and to receive  information about their PPI policy that was clear.
In my view,  NatWest didnt do this and Mr M and Mr C were therefore  sold a policy  that didnt  do what 
they anticipated  it would.  So Im thinking about upholding this complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold this complaint. And I intend to direct National 
Westminster Plc to put matters right as above.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 23 
February 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN1287750