K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Miss H has been  assisted by her dad. But for ease of reading I'll 
refer to his actions and comments as being those of Miss H.
Reference to Advantage includes its agent.
background
Miss Hs car was damaged while parked overnight and the other driver wasn't ever 
identified. Advantage said Miss Hs car was a total loss and settled her claim for £3,770 less 
her excess.  Miss H was very unhappy with a number of aspects of Advantages service,  
including the valuation it put on the car. Advantage acknowledged that it could have handled  
matters better. So it paid Miss H £125 to cover the cost of personal items she couldn't get 
out of the car, it agreed that the claim wouldn't affect Miss Hs no claims discount and it paid 
her £300  to address her distress and inconvenience.
Miss H doesnt think that went far enough and brought her complaint  to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  He thought  Advantage had done enough to put 
things right. Miss H didn't  agree so her complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Miss H has made a number of detailed points. And I've considered 
everything she's said. But In this decision  I will focus  on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding issues.
Having read the file its clear that Miss Hs claim journey was anything but smooth. Amongst 
other things  there were issues with: the provision of a courtesy car; Miss Hs car being 
moved without telling her when her personal  belongings  were  still in it; Advantage giving 
Miss H incorrect  advice;  and the communication between Advantage and its agents with 
Miss H clearly could have been better. But Advantage acknowledged that it hadnt got 
everything right. And it paid Miss H £300  compensation  for the impact  of those things. I'm 
aware that Miss H doesn't think that's enough to cover all the stress that she had to go 
through. But its usual where  theres  been  an unfortunate claim such  as this for the 
policyholder to be put to some inconvenience, even where things go as smoothly  as can be 
expected. And I think that the £300  Advantage has paid Miss H is reasonable to address the 
distress and inconvenience Miss H experienced as a result of its errors and omissions. 
That's because  that sum is similar to compensation awards we would make  in cases  of 
similar seriousness. So I'm not going  to instruct Advantage  to pay more.
Miss H also remains  unhappy with Advantages valuation of her car, as she says she was 
unable to replace  it with a similar model for any less than £4,050. So I've considered  that 
valuation carefully.  It's not my role to value cars instead Ill look to see whether an insurer  
like Advantage has reached a fair and reasonable valuation. And we think a reasonable way 
Ref: DRN17956022to do that is by referring to the trade guides the industry use for valuing second had cars. 
The guides  rarely agree on an exact valuation,  but we find them  more  reliable than the 
prices cars are advertised for. That's because the guides are based on likely sales prices  
whereas adverts  are usually inflated  to allow some room for negotiation.
Because the guides rarely  agree on an exact  valuation we think a fair way to find a cars 
market value is to use an average of the various  figures given by the trade guides. But 
Advantage didn't do that and instead  used the highest valuation  from the guides  it 
considered. So it paid her more  than the average  valuation we think  is a fair method  to value 
cars by. So I think Advantages valuation was reasonable  in the circumstances. 
For completeness, Ill add that I'm aware that Miss H remains unhappy that she wasn't given 
the opportunity  of having her own garage look at the car. But I've seen that Advantage did 
give her the opportunity to do that, although  I realise  this was after it had moved her car to a 
storage facility that wasn't local to her and so would have made doing so more  difficult. But I 
don't think  it prevented her from taking the matter further if she'd wanted  to. And as I've said 
above I think Advantage has already  provided  enough compensation to address her distress 
and inconvenience  arising from any errors in the handling  of her claim. So I don't think it 
needs to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1795602