K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the service hes received from Halifax  Share Dealing Limited  (trading 
as IWeb Share Dealing), which I will refer to as the business.  
He would like the business to give advance  notice of any changes  to its dividend  
reinvestment for the stocks he holds, hed also like an apology for the poor service it 
provided and some  compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
 
background
Mr F has a share dealing account  with the business. He says that a few months ago it 
stopped reinvesting  his dividends without prior notice.  So he assumed that this is how all 
future dividends would be invested, and started  taking out the cash as he wasnt  getting the 
interest payments.
But in March 2019, the business started  to reinvest  the dividends again  without prior notice. 
Mr F is unhappy  that this wasnt communicated  to him. And feels the constant change is 
making it difficult for him  as a self-employed person  to plan his cash flow. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Due to MiFID (the Market in Financial  Instruments  Directive) II regulations,  the ICG 
Enterprise Trust was outside  the target market in April 2018, due to the classification 
of the asset. 
However in December 2018,  there was a change in the target market on the asset  
manufacturers Key Investor Document which was internally approved on iWeb.
After this date the asset was deemed  tradeable  on the iWeb share dealing platform. 
This meant  that not only could consumers  purchase this asset but dividends could 
also be reinvested. 
As Mr Fs account was set to automatic reinvestment, the dividend was reinvested 
according to this investment. 
Its also an execution only broker, so has no obligation to advise its customers of any 
changes to the classification of an asset. 
However, by not communicating changes,  the business acknowledged that this could 
lead to inconvenience and the inability to plan cash flow. 
The business offer to put Mr F back in the position he wouldve been if the dividend  
hadnt been invested in the first place was fair in the circumstances. 
Theres nothing to suggest  within its terms and conditions   that it was obligated to 
notify customers of any future  changes  to stock.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN14735302On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr F says Im not persuaded that 
the business has acted unreasonably.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling  about this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr F and the business, and reach what I think  
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
In simple terms, Im satisfied that the business was acting within its rules and regulations 
when it wasnt reinvesting the dividends because  of the asset classification at the time. I 
dont think it couldve done  anything differently. 
I note the business only started reinvesting  the dividends when that asset classification 
changed and it was able to do this again.  
I appreciate that this change  without any prior notification  can cause difficulty  with Mr Fs 
financial planning and cash  flow, especially as hes self-employed.  But in this instance  I 
cant hold the business responsible for this.  
I note that the business was an execution only broker so was under no obligation to notify or 
advise Mr F of these changes each time. There was no contractual basis  upon  which  the 
business was obliged to give advice. And given the fast moving  environment  where  asset 
classes are always changing it wouldnt be practicable for business to notify its investors 
each time.   
I also note that the Mr Fs account was set to automatic reinvestment, which means  the 
dividends would be automatically invested   on eligible investments  without having to 
notify Mr F each time.  
If Mr F is unhappy  with the set up, I understand he can change  the dividend handling on his 
account any time to pay away to ensure  that he has cash  rather than any reinvestment 
being made. This might enable him to manage  his cash flow better and know  that his 
dividends werent  being reinvested, but its a matter for him.  
In the circumstances I think the business  offer to put Mr F back in the position he wouldve 
been in, if the dividend  hadnt been  invested  in the first place, is fair in the circumstances.   
I appreciate Mr F will be thoroughly unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything further.   
Ref: DRN14735303On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to give Mr F what  he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1473530