K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ws credit card account when she applied for the card by post.   
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
 Mrs Ws recollection is that she called Capital One to check  if she was eligible for the 
card, and was told she should buy the PPI. Capital  One doesnt  have any record of this 
 but that might well be because  this was simply an enquiry.  But as well as this 
testimony I do have to consider the paperwork Mrs W completed,  which she did at her 
leisure. Im satisfied it was clear  she didnt have to buy it, although I can understand 
why she can no longer remember this. 
 Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have  to check if it was 
suitable for her. 
 Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. But Mrs W chose to take out the policy  and so appears  to have 
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs W would  have made  a different decision if better information had been provided.  
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive also thought about what  Mrs W told us about  being in financial difficulties when she 
applied for the card.  But I havent  seen any evidence  to support this, either from Mrs W or in 
the card account  statements Capital One sent. So this hasnt altered my conclusions.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  30 October 2019. 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1698872