K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts unhappy  with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds  handling of his 
claim made on a car finance payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
All references to Red Sands include its administrative agents.  
background
Mr T became ill in May 2017  and contacted  Red Sands  in July 2017 to claim disability 
benefits on his PPI policy.
Despite having  been made aware early  on that Mr T hadnt been off work for any period of 
more than 30 days  meaning his claim  was unlikely to be successful under the policy terms 
 it continued  to investigate for several months.  It finally turned down his claim in late April 
2018.
Unhappy with Red Sands response, Mr T complained. Red Sands apologised to Mr T for 
unnecessarily investigating  his claim and delaying its decision. It offered to pay him £100  as 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hed suffered.
Mr T remained unhappy, so one of our adjudicators  considered  the complaint. The 
adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld as, in his view,  Red Sands offer 
was fair.
Because Mr T didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that Red Sands handled  Mr Ts claim poorly. The policy terms are clear 
that Mr T must have  been disabled for longer than the 30-day waiting period before the 
monthly benefit would  be paid. Red Sands was aware that Mr T didnt meet that requirement  
but nevertheless  continued to assess the claim for around nine months in total.
Its important to add that I dont consider  the length of the delay was substantially  Red 
Sands fault. For instance, there  were  discrepancies in some of the evidence provided to it, 
and it had to chase various  parties  for information on several occasions.
While its investigation was ongoing, I also note Red Sands did provide Mr T with regular 
updates as to its progress. 
I fully recognise that Red Sands mis-handling did nothing to help Mr T, especially given the 
nature of the condition giving rise to his claim. Nevertheless the fact remains that, although it 
took much  longer for Red Sands to provide Mr T with its answer to his claim than it should  
have, in reality the claim was never  likely to be paid.
Ref: DRN17692442So the loss Mr T suffered  isnt the delayed  payment  of his claim but rather the 
disappointment of not having some of his expectations met. Which  means I cant reasonably 
ask Mr Ts car finance company (in any event, a different  financial business  to Red Sands)  
to hold off on dealing with his account  arrears or ask Red Sands to compensate him for that. 
Rather Red Sands has apologised to Mr T for its actions  and offered  £100 as compensation 
for the upset and inconvenience caused.  In the circumstances,  I believe thats fair. 
Finally, Mr T says he became  unemployed in January 2018 and that Red Sands unfairly  
turned that claim down  too. This final decision,  however,  concerns  his earlier  disability claim.  
As such,  its open  for Mr T to contact Red Sands about his subsequent claim if he remains  
unhappy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1769244