K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Morses Club PLC irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one home credit loan Morses Club PLC provided to Mr S in 
September 2016. The loan was for £100 and was to be repaid in 20 weekly instalments of 
£7.50. Mr S didnt repay his loan and so it was referred to a collections agency. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S disagreed  and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible lending  - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.  
Morses Club PLC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Morses  Club PLC should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses Club PLC was required to 
establish whether  Mr S could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN18464592This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Morses Club PLC asked  Mr S for information  about  his income and expenditure. Mr S said 
his weekly income was £330  and his expenditure was £130. This left him with a disposable  
income of £200  to meet his weekly repayments  of £7.50. I think  these  affordability  checks 
were proportionate to the size of the loan repayments compared  to Mr Ss income  and the 
stage of the lending relationship. 
Mr S told us that he had numerous other  loans  at the time and a check on his credit record 
would have shown  missed payments and outstanding debts. But Morses Club PLC wasnt  
required to check his credit record so it wouldnt have known about  his poor financial 
situation. 
Given the loan amount,  what  was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances at the time and his 
history with Morses Club PLC, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr S provided or the information  Morses Club PLC shouldve been  aware  
of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what Mr S was saying. The 
loan repayments  looked affordable. So I cant say it was wrong for Morses Club PLC to have 
provided this loan. And I dont require it to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1846459