K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains that UK Insurance Limited  trading  as Direct Line (Direct Line) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  in declining her claim under a travel  insurance policy. She wants  
the claim paid in full.
background
Mrs E had a travel  insurance  policy with Direct Line. She had booked  a trip abroad with her 
son, but the night before  they were  due to travel, Mrs E said that her son became unwell due 
to a sickness bug. This caused the cancellation of the trip. Mrs Es claim for the cancellation 
costs was rejected  by Direct Line because  there  was no medical evidence supporting the 
claim. Mrs E explained that as her son was unwell on a weekend, her GP surgery  was 
closed and it didnt  occur to her to call another doctor at the time to just confirm  that her son 
was sick; she also pointed  out that children  with sickness bugs simply needed rest and 
fluids, not medical attention. Direct  Line didnt change its position.
Mrs E complained to Direct Line, It said that under the terms and conditions of the policy,  
evidence that it was medically necessary  to cancel the trip was required, including a medical 
certificate from a doctor. But it apologised  for not responding to all of Mrs Es letters  and paid 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this failure.
Mrs E complained to us. The investigators view was that Direct Line hadnt  acted  fairly  or 
reasonably in this case. He said that it wasnt unreasonable  for Mrs E not to see a GP on a 
weekend, particularly given the short-term nature of sickness  bugs. The investigator also 
didnt think that Mrs Es cancellation of the trip was unreasonable in the circumstances, and 
if she had travelled, it was likely to have been  against medical advice if obtained. And as the 
sickness happened at the last minute, there was little Mrs E could do to mitigate the loss. He 
said Mrs Es account was reasonable, showed that she acted responsibility  and Direct  Line 
should pay the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy,  with interest  (this 
would include seeing evidence of the actual loss).
Direct Line disagreed. It said that it was unreasonable to ignore the terms and conditions of 
the policy, though it accepted a parent was well placed to judge how to manage  a childs  
sickness. Direct Line said Mrs E shouldve contacted 111 at the time to support  her claim 
and the investigators  view just let policyholders  cancel trips without evidence.  The 
investigator said this service considered matters on a case  by case basis  and Mrs Es 
evidence was plausible.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to deal with the failure to 
respond to all of Mrs Es complaint letters as this isnt a regulated activity with the jurisdiction 
of this service and £100 compensation has been paid for this failure. I will focus on the core 
of the complaint, which is about Direct Lines approach to medical evidence.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Direct Line has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN10868392The terms and conditions  of the policy are relevant and I note that they state that 
cancellation due to illness of Mrs Es travelling  companion could be covered, provided that 
the relevant medical certificates are supplied. But this service can look outside  the strict 
wording of the policy if thats the fair and reasonable thing to do. 
In Mrs Es case, there  are no medical certificates to be supplied as her son didnt require 
medical treatment theres  no clear requirement that a medical certificate  must be obtained 
(and such a requirement  may need  to be highlighted) in all cases.  A relevant certificate  is in 
relation to the condition leading to the cancellation and can only be supplied  if available; if 
not available,  one should look at whether  theres a reasonable  explanation  as to why not. 
Given the nature of the childs illness, I think that Mrs Es account is reasonable. Children 
with sickness bugs  dont  generally require medical  attention or any special medication; 
theres usually no need  to call 111 or get something from a pharmacy for such  illnesses. 111 
does not exist in order  to provide evidence to support insurance claims;  it undertakes  a vital 
role in triaging  the medical  needs  of the public. Mrs Es evidence  about why theres no 
medical evidence  is credible and consistent.
I think its fair and reasonable that Direct Line wants to be confident  about  the reason for the 
cancellation of the trip, but Mrs Es own account  of what happened  is evidence. And its 
relevant to consider the nature of the trip cancelled  it was to Disneyland  Paris. Most 
families who book such a trip want to go; indeed the children are often excited. Logically, its 
more likely than not that there was a good  reason for the cancellation  and the sickness  bug 
of Mrs Es son is a credible explanation. 
It isnt fair or reasonable for Direct Line to say as theres no medical certificate, it wont 
consider the claim  further. I think that it should consider the claim as if such a medical 
certificate was provided (which means  it can ask for invoices and other evidence of financial 
loss), and pay interest of 8% simple interest a year from the date Mrs E first tried to make 
the claim until the date of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and UK Insurance Ltd should consider the 
claim without  requiring further  medical  evidence and pay interest as outlined  above. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mrs E to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 23 February 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1086839