K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  out in 1995 
and 2003. Mr B and Miss E say Bank  of Scotland Bank Plc mis-sold them  the PPI. The 1995 
policy covered both Mr B only for accident, sickness  and unemployment.  
In 2003 Mr and Mrs E bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP)  with a further 
advance. TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover  (which is a form of 
PPI), life cover and critical illness  cover. Ive looked  at the sale of the PPI cover only.  This 
policy also covered  Mr B only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Miss Es case.
1995 sale 
Ive decided the 1995 policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr B and Miss Es mortgage  application. On it there  is a section related 
to PPI where  both Mr B and Miss E have signed to say they wanted the policy.  There was a 
box they couldve signed if they didnt  want the policy  which has been  left blank. So I think  
Halifax made it clear that Mr B and Miss E didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr B (as sole policy holder) so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for him and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mr B says he was entitled to three  months 
full pay followed by 75% pay thereafter. He also says he couldve relied  on Miss Es salary. 
Mr B hasnt mentioned  any redundancy entitlements  or savings. The PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to any employee benefits he wouldve received, and for up to 12 months if he was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment (significantly longer than his 
full sick pay wouldve paid out for). And having  the policy meant  Mr B wouldnt have to rely 
on Miss Es salary   whose ability to help would depend on her own circumstances at any 
given time.  So I think  he wouldve  found the policy useful and that this was a suitable 
recommendation. 
Mr B and Miss E say they werent given sufficient information about the policy. I agree its 
possible the information Halifax gave Mr B and Miss E about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss E. 
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss E because: 
Ref: DRN13102002Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B and Miss E about that. Because Halifax  didnt tell 
Mr B and Miss E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
2003 sale 
Ive decided the 2003 policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Theres limited  paperwork  available from the sale but this isnt unusual considering the 
length of time thats passed. Based on what we know about how Halifax  sold policies like Mr 
B and Miss Es around this time,  I think its likely the optional  nature wouldve been made 
clear. On balance I think Halifax made  it clear  that Mr B and Miss E didnt  have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant  remember  
this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr B (as sole policy holder) so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mr B says he was entitled to three  months 
full sick pay, followed  by 75% thereafter.  Mr B says he couldve relied on Miss Es salary  if 
he was unable to work.  He hasnt mentioned any redundancy entitlements  or savings. The 
PPI offered  a benefit of up to 24 months  cover in the event Mr B made  a successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. And having  the policy meant he wouldnt have to rely 
on Miss E  whose ability to help would depend on her own circumstances at any given time. 
So I think the policy offered a valuable benefit  considering Mr B and Miss Es need for the 
cover at the time. And I dont think this was an unsuitable recommendation. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B and Miss E about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold  in 2003. So Halifax doesnt need to refund  
everything Mr B and Miss E paid for it. But Halifax has already paid Mr B and Miss E back 
some of the cost of the PPI for the 2003  sale. I dont think  it needs  to do anything  more here. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B and Miss E have said.  This includes what Mr B says 
about attempting to make  a claim  on the policy when he lost his job and that his claim was 
unsuccessful. While  I havent looked  into the circumstances  of the claim in this decision,  I 
can say there are lots of reasons  that can lead to a claim being declined  even if the policy 
was suitable for the consumers circumstances when they were initially  sold it. And while this 
may lead to disappointment  on the part of the insured, who believed he or she was fully 
covered, it doesnt  automatically mean  something  went wrong at the point of sale or that the 
seller, rather than the insurer, was at fault.
In this case, Ive already established,  Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale meant  he 
wasnt caught by the significant exclusions in the policy. As a result, Im satisfied Halifaxs  
recommendation was suitable.
Ref: DRN13102003Any claims for accident, sickness or unemployment  wouldve been subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy rather than an unconditional  form of cover.  So I dont agree that 
Halifaxs actions when  it sold Mr B and Miss E the policy has caused  them  to lose out.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss E. 
But Bank of Scotland Plc has paid back to Mr B and Miss E any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium on the 1995 sale. Halifax has already paid 
Mr B and Miss E back some of the cost of the PPI for the 2003  sale.  I wont  award  any 
additional compensation here. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B and Miss E 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1310200