K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that MCE Insurance Company Limited has declined a claim he made under 
his motorcycle insurance policy.
background
Mr Cs motorbike was stolen in October 2018. So, he made a claim for his loss under his 
motorcycle insurance policy.
MCE considered the claim  and said it wasnt able to accept Mr Cs claim. It accepted that 
Mr Cs motorbike had been  stolen. But it said the policy didnt cover theft of a motorbike  if 
the steering lock on the bike wasnt activated  at the time of the loss. And it said the steering  
lock wasnt activated  in this particular case.
MCE said it knew this was the case because it had an independent expert  inspect the bike  
which the police had been able to recover. And this engineer said there were no signs of 
forced steering.  It also noted Mr C had said he couldnt remember if he had applied  the 
steering lock.  
Mr C didnt agree think this decision was fair. He said he had been  honest in saying he 
couldnt remember whether he activated  the steering  lock. But, this was something he just 
did automatically. So, he felt he might have actually done this. Mr C also said he had used 
chain to the wheel to keep  the bike secure. Because Mr C didnt agree with MCEs decision 
he referred his complaint  to this service to decide.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She said she felt that it was 
most likely the steering  lock wasnt activated  at the time of the theft.  So, she said she 
thought it was fair for MCE  to rely on the condition that said Mr C needed to activate  this 
lock, to decline the claim. She said not applying the lock was a material  to the theft of the 
bike. So she couldnt  say MCE had done  anything wrong.
Mr C didnt agree. He said there wasnt any firm proof the steering lock wasnt on at the time 
of the theft. Because Mr C didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not uphold 
this complaint. Ive explained the reasons for this below.
Ive looked at Mr Cs policy, to see what cover he has under his policy. From doing so, Im 
aware his  policy  does provide cover for the theft of his bike.  But, there is an exclusion within  
the policy that says;
Your policy does not cover the following:
()
Ref: DRN1077246212 Loss or damage to your motorcycle from theft or attempted  theft where your 
motorcycle is left unattended and the steering lock (where fitted  by the manufacturers)  has 
not been activated.
This exclusion is also clearly detailed on the key facts document sent to Mr C when his 
policy was purchased. This says;
IMPORTANT: When leaving  your vehicle unattended, you MUST  activate you steering lock 
(where one is fitted by the manufacturers).
Given the above, Im aware that if the steering lock wasnt activated  at the time Mr Cs 
motorbike was stolen,  the loss wouldnt be covered by the policy. MCE has said this was the 
case  so it cant cover Mr Cs claim.  
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy  it needs  to establish, on balance, 
that the exclusion applies. In this instance, MCE would need to show it was most likely  that 
the steering lock on Mr Cs motorcycle wasnt activated. So, Ive thought  carefully about 
whether MCE has shown this was the case.  
Mr C has said there  wasnt any firm evidence to prove  that the steering lock hadnt  been 
turned on. And I do appreciate what Mr C is saying here. But, on looking at the evidence 
provided to me, I think MCE  has shown  its most  likely the steering lock wasnt activated at 
the time of the theft. 
This is because the police were able to recover Mr Cs bike. And so MCE was able to 
appoint an engineer to inspect it. Ive seen the report the engineer completed following this 
inspection. This said there were  no signs of forced steering on the bike. 
MCE has explained that if a steering lock is active the bike is less desirable to a potential 
thief, because  the bike cant be wheeled away. And breaking the steering lock would always  
damage the bike. Given there was no signs of forced steering on the bike,  and Mr C said he 
couldnt remember activating the lock, I think MCE has acted fairly in noting its likely the lock 
wasnt turned on. Given the bike was stolen whilst the steering lock wasnt  activated, and the 
deterrent activating the lock provides, I think the failure to activate he lock was material to 
the theft that happened here. 
Mr C said that he did use another security  measure of his bike.  He said he used an Oxford 
HD bike chain lock, which was chained to the wheel of the bike. Ive thought carefully  about  
this. But, Im satisfied this doesnt change the outcome  of this complaint. Whilst Mr C may 
have used other security  measurements in place at the time of the theft,  this doesnt alter the 
fact that its likely the steering lock wasnt activated and I think its less likely the bike would 
have been stolen if it had been. The additional  security measures Mr C used werent 
sufficient to stop the theft of the vehicle. So, Im satisfied MCE acted fairly and reasonably  in 
declining the claim.  
my final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. So, I dont  require 
MCE Insurance Company Limited  to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Ref: DRN10772463Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1077246