K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) refused to open an account or provide 
him with the reasons why it rejected his account  application.
background
Mr B says that as he lived between  England  and Northern Ireland he wanted to open  an 
account with BoI but wished to register the account  at his address  in England.  He says the 
account application was rejected and he was told to attend a branch and the reason  given  
was due to the address he used. Mr B says he then went to a BoI branch in Northern Ireland 
but his application was again rejected on the basis of his credit report. He says his credit  
score is above average and would like BoI to open an account  for him. Mr B says BoI offered 
him £75 compensation but says he will not be accepting that offer.
BoI says it considered Mr Bs application and rejected it. It says its entitled  to do so in line 
with the account terms and conditions and isnt obliged to provide reasons as they would be 
commercially sensitive.  BoI has apologised to Mr B for the misinformation he was given and 
offered him £75. It says an account  can be opened from applicants outside  Northern Ireland 
but does require that an applicant attends  one of its branches in Northern Ireland.
Mr B brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold the main part of his 
complaint. The investigator thought BoI was entitled  to ask Mr B to attend its branch and in 
line with the account terms and conditions  was also entitled to reject an application  without 
providing reasons.  The investigator thought those rejection reasons would be commercially  
sensitive. The investigator accepted  Mr B was given misleading  information about BoIs 
process but thought BoIs offer of £75 was sufficient  and fair.
Mr B doesnt  accept that view and says he believes BoI has information about him that its 
not telling  him about. He says he has a recording  of BoI telling him he needs to be resident 
in Northern Ireland  to open an account and would like BoI to accept  the reason his 
application was rejected  was due to where  he lived. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr B will be disappointed  by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions which  think Mr B would have  agreed  to 
when he made the account application. And I can see that BoI make clear  within  those terms 
and conditions that it may refuse to open  an account  without providing a reason. Im satisfied 
thats what has happened here and so I dont think BoI has made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by rejecting Mr Bs application and by not providing  him with the reasons for doing so. I 
appreciate that Mr B has unanswered  questions in those circumstances and I also 
appreciate what he says about  his credit score. But for the reasons Ive explained Im 
satisfied BoI is entitled to make the decision it did. I also make  clear to Mr B that I would not 
expect or could not fairly order BoI to provide commercially sensitive information to him 
about its internal  credit  scoring or its internal account opening criteria and the reasons  why it 
rejected his application.
Ref: DRN18061192There is no question here that BoI did give Mr B misleading  information.  But Im satisfied that 
BoI has apologised for that and explained  its position on account  applications  from those 
that dont reside  in Northern Ireland. I dont think that information had a significant  impact on 
Mr B and I dont think that is the main part of his complaint in any event. Im satisfied BoI has 
made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation of £75. But I appreciate  that Mr B says he 
doesnt wish to accept  that offer and so I will leave it to him to decide if he wishes  to do so.
Overall Im satisfied BoI is entitled to make a commercial decision on with whom  it enters  
into a business  relationship. So for the reasons  Ive explained I cant  fairly order  BoI to open 
an account for Mr B as he would like or order it to provide any reasons why it rejected his 
account application.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs main complaint and that Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of £75 compensation in respect of the misleading 
information it gave  him. Mr Bs acceptance of that offer would  be in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1806119