K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way MBNA  Limited  dealt with his request for a credit limit 
increase.
background
Mr M has a credit  card account with MBNA.  In 2019,  he contacted them  by phone  to ask for 
an increase to his credit  limit. He says he was advised to call back after a couple  of days  
because maintenance work to their systems meant that MBNA couldnt deal with his request 
at that time. He says he called back a few days later but his call was cut off after being  on 
hold for a long period of time. He says he called back  and was kept on hold for another  long 
period, after which he was told his request couldnt  be dealt with over the phone  and he 
would have to apply online.  He says he tried to apply online but was informed during that 
process that he needed to contact MBNA by phone.
Mr M says he no longer wants the credit limit increase.  He says hes spent hours  dealing  
with the issue  and doesnt want to spend any more time on it. Hes unhappy  with the way 
MBNA dealt  with his request, which he says should  have been  straightforward.
Mr M complained to MBNA. They upheld his complaint and offered him compensation of £50 
for the inconvenience  caused. They apologised that they hadnt  been able to deal with Mr 
Ms request  over the phone. But they said that, when he tried to increase his credit limit 
online, his request was declined. They said that was why he was asked to call them. They  
offered to review that decision and told Mr M what further information they would need from 
him to do so.
Mr M wasnt happy with MBNAs offer. He says the customer service  he received was very 
poor and that MBNA failed to deal with his request. He doesnt think £50 is enough  to reflect  
the amount of time and energy he says hes wasted on the issue,  which has also been 
stressful and caused him inconvenience. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator thought that MBNA  had dealt with the complaint fairly, so he didnt ask them  
to do anything. Mr M didnt agree and asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA accept that Mr M has been inconvenienced.  They upheld  his complaint and offered 
him compensation. But Mr M says the compensation theyve offered isnt enough.  He feels  
strongly that £50 doesnt reflect the waste of time,  stress and inconvenience he says the 
situation caused. He thinks £500  would be more appropriate. So what I need  to decide is the 
amount of compensation which is appropriate  here.
Mr M says he not only wasted time on the phone to MBNA, but also in completing  an online 
application, following  which he was asked  to call them. But he says he already knew from his 
previous experiences on the phone that MBNA  wouldnt be able to process a credit limit 
increase over the phone.  So the whole exercise  must have seemed circular. I understand Mr 
Ms frustration here, which MBNA have also acknowledged. 
Ref: DRN12475992But, from the information available to me, I understand that the reason Mr M was asked to 
call MBNA  was because  his online application  had been  declined.  I realise that wasnt the 
outcome Mr M wanted. But I cant agree that MBNA  failed to deal with his request altogether.  
Theyve explained that he made  the request  online and it was declined. MBNA have since  
offered to review this lending decision but say they will need  more information from Mr M in 
order to do so. I understand  that Mr M doesnt wish to pursue this. But I think MBNAs offer 
to review the decision is fair and I wouldnt expect them to do more on that.
As to the compensation offered, its very difficult to put a monetary value on the stress  and 
inconvenience caused by a situation  like this. And different customers  will experience 
different levels  of stress when faced with the same situation. Our awards  arent intended to 
punish a business but to reflect the impact  a situations had on a customer and put that right,  
so far as possible.
Mr M says hes wasted  a lot of time dealing with this issue, which he could have used to do 
something else. Ive taken that into account.  But we dont generally  award  compensation for 
specific units of a customers  time. Instead,  Ive considered the overall impact that spending 
this time had on Mr M.
Hes explained how the situation affected  him and Ive taken that into account.  The 
experience was frustrating and stressful and caused  him inconvenience. But I have to be 
impartial, so Ive balanced what Mr M has said against MBNAs response.  
Taking everything into account,  I think MBNAs  offer of £50 is fair here. I understand the offer 
is still open. Mr M should contact MBNA if he now wishes to accept it. But I dont think  MBNA 
need to do any more here so Im not going to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1247599