K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms B say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr C and Ms B bought  the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £503.45 a month towards  Mr C and Ms Bs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £28.00 a month. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a quarry craftsman. He has told us he was entitled to six 
months full sick pay followed by six months  half sick pay and had £1,500 in savings.  He also 
said he was entitled  to redundancy pay and death  in service benefit.  Mr C has said he had 
back problems in 1996 and missed the odd day of work because of this. 
Ms B was not covered  by the policy.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2007. 
Mr C and Ms Bs representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr C and Ms Bs representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr C and Ms B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr C and 
Ms Bs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr C and Ms B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr C and Ms B and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN16845812The information Mr C and Ms B received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C and Ms B disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr C and Ms Bs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Ms Bs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN16845813The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr C and Ms Bs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr C and Ms Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr C and Ms B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr C and Ms B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C 
and Ms B, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C and Ms B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN16845814Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and Ms B 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Ms Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr C and Ms B know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr C and Ms B ticked a box on their mortgage application to indicate they wanted to apply 
for PPI. They completed a separate application form for the PPI which showed they only 
wanted Mr C to be covered by the policy.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr C and Ms B knew  the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says that advice was provided  during this sale.  This means  Lloyds had to advise 
Mr C and Ms B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr C and Ms B. It seems Mr C and Ms B cant remember clearly  what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr C and Ms Bs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr C would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr C had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr C and Ms B given their circumstances.  
So, Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr C and Ms B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr C and Ms B had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr C and Ms Bs ability  
to continue to meet their mortgage  repayments  would have been  put under strain  if 
Mr C was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
employee benefits and savings he says he would have  been  entitled to.
-Although Mr C and Ms B says they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
Ref: DRN16845815-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C and Ms B. 
There was nothing  about Mr Cs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr C has told 
us about having a back problem  in 1996  which caused him to have the odd day off 
work. But the policy would only have excluded  this for the first 24 months of the 
policy. Given the mortgage was set to run for 22 years, I dont think  that made the 
policy unsuitable. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover for mental  
health or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr C be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr C and Ms Bs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr C and Ms B be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr C and Ms B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr C and Ms B were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr C was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr C and 
Ms B would  have taken  out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr C and Ms B agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C and Ms B Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr C and Ms B all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr C and Ms Bs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr C and 
Ms Bs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr C and Ms Bs representative considers to be 
Ref: DRN16845816poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C and Ms B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr C and Ms Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr C and Ms B have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr C and Ms B? To what extent did 
Mr C and Ms B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr C and 
Ms B. So, I have gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
C and Ms B suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr C and Ms B would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr C and Ms B, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr C and Ms B have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Lloyds had explained things 
properly, Mr C and Ms B would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr C and Ms B say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C and Ms B had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr C was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr C and Ms Bs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Ref: DRN16845817Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr C and Ms B knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr C and Ms B applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr C and Ms B would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr C and Ms B would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr C and Ms B would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr C and 
Ms Bs expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually  paid more  in the 
event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C and Ms B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr C 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  for the 
first 24 months of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
do their own job, a similar job or any paid work  which their experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr C and Ms B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C and Ms B from taking  out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr C says he had back  problems some time 
before the policy was taken out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he needed 
time off work because  of this condition within the first 24 months of the policy, I dont think  
better information about this exclusion would have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this 
because theres nothing to suggest the problems were ongoing or had recurred at the time 
the PPI was taken  out.
Ref: DRN16845818And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr C and Ms B would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr C and Ms B had known  that Mr C could only claim for disability if he was unable to do 
both his job and any similar job which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into their thinking about what they would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  its possible they may not have been  
overly concerned given  that if Mr C were unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr C and Ms B that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr C and Ms B would have received full sick pay 
for, and his redundancy entitlement was also likely to be significantly less than 12 months  
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr C and Ms B would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr C and Ms B be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr C and Ms Bs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C and Ms B would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr C were  made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C and Ms B would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr C and Ms Bs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN16845819presumed Mr C and Ms B would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr C and Ms 
Bs circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr C 
and Ms B found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C and Ms B believe the presumption  may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C and Ms B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr C and Ms B compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr C and Ms B think Lloyds  misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr C and Ms B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr C and Ms Bs representative  says a court might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr C and Ms B and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr C and Ms B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN168458110Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1684581