K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) lent to her in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Miss A was provided with a catalogue shopping account by Studio in December 2011. Her 
credit limit was initially set at £150 and was then increased almost  monthly  until it reached 
£1,113 in January 2013. It was further  increased  to £1,363 in July 2013  and again to £1,613 
in January 2014. When Miss A started to face problems making her repayments Studio 
decreased the credit  limit to £1,580 in February  2014 before defaulting the account  the 
following August. 
Miss As outstanding  balance was transferred to a third-party debt collection company in 
2016. Miss A tells us that she had repaid around  two thirds of the outstanding balance  
before the third party noticed that it wasnt able to locate a copy of the credit  agreement 
Miss A had signed  in 2011. As a result, she says, it decided to write off the remaining 
balance on her account.
Miss As complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Studios  
initial decision to open an account for Miss A was unreasonable. And he thought the early 
credit limit increases had been made responsibly.  But he thought that by the time the credit 
limit was increased in July 2013  Studio should have  been aware of Miss As worsening 
financial situation and so shouldnt have agreed that increase. And he thought that by the 
following month Studio should have reached the conclusion that Miss A would be unable to 
repay what shed borrowed in a sustainable  manner. So Studio should have stopped offering 
further credit  at that point and prevented Miss A from making  any new purchases using the 
account. So he asked  Studio to put things right for Miss A.
Studio let us know that the assessment was being  considered by one of its senior  managers.  
But since  then it has failed to provide  any further response to the assessment. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Miss A accepts my decision  it is legally  
binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Miss As complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time required Studio to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment  of whether Miss A could afford to repay  what  she owed in a 
sustainable manner.  This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  
assessment or affordability  check. The check needed to be completed at the outset of the 
relationship and each time there  was a significant  increase  in the credit  limit. Studio also 
needed to monitor  the account  for any signs that Miss A was struggling to manage the credit 
shed been given.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Studio had to think  about whether repaying  
the credit  sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse  consequences  for Miss A. In 
Ref: DRN18411252practice this meant that Studio had to ensure that making the required repayments wouldnt 
cause Miss A undue  difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Studio to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back,  it had to consider the 
impact of any repayments on Miss A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances at that time. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate affordability  check will be dependent  upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited  to  the particular circumstances of the consumer  (e.g. 
their financial  history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications  of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be, or has been, indebted for 
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the 
customer is required to make repayments  for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Studio did what it needed  to before agreeing to 
open an account for Miss A, and to agree the subsequent  increases  to her credit  limit.
Given the time that has elapsed since the account  was first opened, Studio has told us that it 
has little evidence of the checks that it performed to ensure that Miss A would be able to 
repay the credit in a sustainable  manner.  But it says that it would have used information  from 
a credit reference agency to help determine the state of Miss As finances.
I dont draw any adverse  conclusions from Studios  inability to provide me with the results of 
its checks. But without  that information it would be difficult to fairly  conclude that the checks 
it did were proportionate. It doesnt seem to have gathered  any information from Miss A 
about her specific circumstances. 
But the credit limit it agreed  when the account  was first opened was relatively small - I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Studio to ask Miss A for the amount of information  
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before opening the account.  
So I dont  think the original lending decision should  cause me any great concerns.
And I think the same applies  to the increases to the credit limit that took place over the 
following twelve months. During that time Miss A appears to have operated her account  
relatively well, maintaining its balance within the agreed credit  limit, and making the required 
repayments on time. Although I think Studio should  have started to become concerned 
towards the end of that time that Miss A wasnt making any inroads into repaying what she 
owed, and her outstanding  balance  was steadily increasing, I dont think it unfair  that Studio 
continued to offer, and increase, the credit  to Miss A.
Ref: DRN18411253Studio increased  Miss As credit  limit by around 30% in January 2013. Ive thought  very 
carefully about that increase since Miss As credit  file shows that she had faced problems  in 
2012 with two other credit accounts.  County  Court Judgements (CCJ) had been issued 
against her in January and October  2012. But, whilst I am sure Studio would have been 
aware of the first CCJ, it is possible that its checks before the increase in January 2013  
didnt yet identify  the second. So on balance Ive concluded that the increase to the credit  
limit it provided in January 2013, set against  the background of Miss As relatively good 
management of her account,  wasnt unreasonable.
Studio didnt increase the credit limit again until July 2013. That increase was another  large 
one, increasing  the limit by a further 20%.  By that time the second CCJ would have been 
visible on Miss As credit  file. And it is possible that a third CCJ, issued in May, would have 
been reported too. That would have been a clear indication that Miss A was facing serious 
problems managing her money.
But given the amount  of credit that Studio was now extending to Miss A, I think  its checks  at 
that time might have  need to go further than just a simple check of her credit file. So what  
I would consider to be proportionate checks at that time are likely to have identified the 
problems Miss A was facing managing  her money even if the third CCJ hadnt yet been  
reported. So I dont  think Studio should  have increased Miss As credit limit in July 2013 or 
subsequently in January 2014.
As I said earlier Miss A, over the life of her credit  agreement, made little progress in reducing 
the overall amount that she owed.  Her outstanding balance had generally  risen in line with 
the increases  to her credit limit. That didnt suggest  that she would find it possible to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner over a reasonable period of time.  But it does seem 
that she was meeting  the minimum repayments  that the agreement  required her to make. 
However that appears to have changed  in August 2013. At that time Miss A was charged a 
default sum suggesting that her repayment  was either late, or missed. I think  that, together 
the other concerns Ive explained  above, should have led to Studio curtailing the credit it was 
offering to Miss A. I dont  think it was appropriate for it to allow her to continue to make  new 
purchases with the account, without a significant and sustained reduction  in what  she owed.
So in summary,  I dont think Studio should have  increased the credit limit on Miss As 
account after, and including, the increase in July 2013. And I think  it should have stopped 
Miss A taking any further credit from when she missed a repayment in August 2013.  So 
I uphold part of Miss As complaint and Studio needs to pay her some compensation.
putting things right 
As I said earlier Miss As account, that was transferred to the third party, has now been 
settled. But it seems  part of that settlement was facilitated by the third party  writing off 
monies where it couldnt locate a supporting credit agreement. I think  it reasonable that the 
amount that was written off is accounted  for in any compensation due to Miss A. 
To put things right, Studio  should  reconstruct Miss As account by making the following 
adjustments;
I dont think Studio should  have agreed to increase Miss As credit  limit after, and 
including, the limit increase in July 2013. So Studio should  remove any interest 
Ref: DRN18411254incurred on amounts above the previous credit limit of £1,113 from the date of 
increase in July 2013.
I dont think Studio should  have agreed to allow any further purchases to be made 
using the account  following the missed payment in August  2013. So Studio should  
remove any interest and charges (including delivery  fees,  Buy Now Pay Later  
interest, and PPP insurance  premiums) incurred on purchases made after 
15 August 2013.
Studio  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Miss As credit file in 
relation to this account
If, after making these adjustments, Miss As account was in credit at any time, Studio should 
pay Miss A interest at a rate of 8% simple* on the credit balance  for the period it is in credit. 
If a credit  balance remains at the end of the calculations Studio should refund  that amount to 
Miss A, adding interest  at a rate of 8% simple* on the credit balance  to the date of 
settlement.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio to take off tax from this interest. Studio must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
In making these calculations it is reasonable for Studio to take account of any amount that 
was written off as part of Miss As agreement with the third party. But, since Miss As 
account is now closed,  and the credit  agreement terminated, no further liability should fall on 
Miss A.
Miss A has understandably expressed some concerns that the lack of information that Studio 
says it holds may make it difficult  to accurately complete the above calculations. It may be 
that Studio needs to make some  assumptions  if it doesnt hold all the information  it needs, 
however I am hopeful  that, since my redress doesnt  start until July 2013, that might not be 
the case. However, Studio should  provide Miss A with sufficient detail of its calculations  so 
that she can either check their correctness,  or understand any assumptions that have 
reasonably been made if information is missing.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss As complaint and direct  Studio Retail  Limited 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1841125