K820x#14complaint
Mrs G took out a packaged bank account  (PBA) with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) from September 2000  for which she was charged a monthly fee. She says it was 
mis-sold.
background
Mrs G took out the following accounts with NatWest:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current Plus May 1991 No
Advantage Gold Account (AGA) September 2000 Yes
Select Platinum July 2105 Yes
Select May 2016 No
Mrs G says that when she took out the AGA  she thought the fee was for an overdraft, and 
she has not otherwise  used the benefits  from it. The account change happened through a 
meeting with NatWest  staff, and the initial fee was £6 per month for the AGA. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the AGA was mis-sold  but Mrs G disagrees so the case has 
come to me to decide.
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Gs complaint.
In looking at Mrs Gs complaint about  the AGA sale I need  firstly  to consider two things; 
whether she knew she had a choice between  taking out a fee free account  or the AGA she 
bought; and whether NatWest advised her to buy the AGA  or not. 
Mrs G hasnt said that she didnt  have a choice whether  to take out the AGA. Instead  she 
says that she thought  she was paying  a fee for an overdraft facility. Mrs G had previously 
had a fee free account with NatWest for many years so I think she knew she was paying for 
something over and above  her fee free account  and she had made a choice to do so. I will 
go on later to consider  whether she was able to make an informed choice at the time. 
Did NatWest advise her to take out the AGA? 
NatWest says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AGA to Mrs G personally or advise her to take it out. Mrs G says that NatWest  did advise her 
to take out the AGA. 
Ref: DRN16865932I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mrs Gs needs and circumstances or suitability checks  to show  me clearly 
that NatWest did make  a personal recommendation to her. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mrs G and explaining  the benefits of the AGA,  NatWest may have said 
or implied  that it was good idea to take it out. But this isnt the same as giving personal 
recommendations. And based on this services  knowledge of NatWest  sales  practices 
throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that NatWest sold the AGA  to Mrs G on 
an information only basis. This means  NatWest did not have to ensure that the AGA was 
suitable for Mrs G at the time of the sale but it did have to provide  her with enough information 
to make an informed choice.
Did NatWest provide Mrs G with enough  information  about the AGA?
I dont know what information NatWest gave to Mrs G. But NatWest was trying to sell her the 
AGA so I think its more likely  than not that it gave a substantial verbal  explanation  of the 
product and then followed  this up with detailed documentation.
The AGA  benefits  included preferential rates on overdrafts and loans. Also included was an 
automatic approval  for an Advantage Gold Credit Card which if used to purchase a holiday  
provided free travel insurance.  The cost of the account was £6 a month. NatWest has provided  
evidence that at the time of sale Mrs G had previously taken out loans, and she was travelling 
up to 3 times  a year. She later used the overdraft facility. So I can see how the AGAs benefits  
would have been of interest to her. And although  I dont doubt  her honest recollections, I think 
its more likely than not that she was aware  of enough of the AGAs benefits for her to decide 
to take it out.
So in my view even  if NatWest didnt provide Mrs G with all the information about  the AGA  I 
think its more likely  than not Mrs G wouldve chosen  to take out the AGA  anyway.  As this was 
an information only sale, it was then up to Mrs G if, and how, she used the benefits.
For completeness, Mrs G says that her health changed after she took out the AGA; and she 
had no need for phone insurance. But neither health  insurance  nor mobile phone insurance 
were in the AGA  product when  she bought it, so I dont think  either  of these issues  would have 
affected her decision to take it out at the time.
So overall, I dont  think Mrs G lost out in the AGA sale,  and I cant uphold her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1686593