K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains that N26 Bank GmbH (N26)  closed  his current  account without giving him 
notice or explaining its reasons for doing  so, and blocked access  to his funds.
To put things right, Mr O wants N26 to re-open  his account, return  his money and pay him 
compensation for the trouble and upset  he experienced.
background 
Mr O opened his account with N26 on 28 January 2019, but N26 blocked and closed it with 
immediate effect  just 6 weeks later. N26 didnt explain why it had done so, and the block  
stopped Mr O from accessing the £250.07 he had in his account.
N26 rejected Mr Os complaint, saying  it had acted in accordance with section 14.2 of the 
terms and conditions of Mr Os account.  It asked Mr O to provide bank details in order for it 
to return his funds,  which  Mr O did on 18 March  2019. But N26 didnt return  Mr Os funds  
until 3 July 2019.
N26 accepted  it had delayed returning  Mr Os funds  and paid him £250.07 in compensation. 
Mr O remained  unhappy and asked  our service to resolve his complaint.
Our investigator explained that N26 was entitled to block, review and close  Mr Os account.  
And that it didnt have  to give Mr O notice or an explanation  of its reasons. He noted  that 
N26 had accepted it had delayed in completing its review. But felt that N26 had done  enough  
to put things right for Mr O, by paying  him £250.07  in compensation.
Mr O remained  unhappy: he said he had to take out a loan and borrow money from friends. 
And that N26 should pay him a total of £500  in compensation. As our investigator  could not 
reach an agreement,  Mr O referred the matter to me to issue  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Os 
complaint.
I can understand why Mr O is upset. His bank  account was blocked then closed without 
notice, and he had no access to his funds while N26 reviewed his account. But for me to 
uphold his complaint I would  have  to find that N26 has done  something wrong.  And in this 
case, I dont think  it has. Ill explain why.
account block
Im satisfied N26 acted in accordance with its legal and regulatory  obligations  when it 
blocked and reviewed Mr Os account. And that it was entitled to review  Mr Os account  
under the account terms and conditions. So I cant say it acted unfairly  in doing so. 
But I do think it could have released  Mr Os funds more quickly.  Having looked at the 
evidence, it seems to me that N26 had completed  its review by 11 April 2019, which in these 
circumstances I consider to be a reasonable timeframe.  But it didnt release Mr Os funds 
until 3 July 2019. So N26 was responsible for a delay of around  two-and-a-half months.
Ref: DRN17725342Mr O says he had to take out a loan and beg his friends for money.  And that he went  14 
days without money,  before his loan came through.  But I cant reasonably hold N26 
responsible for any losses Mr O incurred during the time N26 was entitled  to keep Mr Os 
account blocked, i.e. up to 11 April 2019.  So I wont be asking N26 to compensate Mr O for 
any losses, distress  and inconvenience he experienced during that time.
With that in mind, Ive thought about  the distress  and inconvenience Mr O would  have 
experienced as a result of the delay from 11 April 2019 to 3 July 2019. And while I accept  it 
would have been frustrating for Mr O not having  access to his money during that time,  N26 
has already paid Mr O compensation equal  to the amount of money it withheld. So I think its 
fair to say N26 has done enough to put things right, so I wont  be asking N26 to pay Mr O 
any further compensation.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both N26 and Mr O had to comply  with  
say that it could close the account immediately and without notice, under certain 
circumstances. Having  considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied that N26 
acted in accordance  with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Os account.
In summary,  I understand Mr Os frustration at the situation, and I know he will be 
disappointed with the outcome. But, having  looked  at all of the available evidence, I cant say 
that N26 did anything  wrong, save for the delay  in releasing his funds which it has already 
put right. So, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1772534