K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained about how Admiral  Insurance Company Limited have dealt with a claim 
under his motor  insurance policy and that it has charged him an additional  premium  for what  
it says is a late notification  loss incident.
background
Mr F had an agreed value motor insurance  policy with Admiral  to cover his use of a classic 
car. There was an accident in which  the other driver  was at fault but Mr Fs car was 
substantially damaged. Mr Fs concerns arose as a result of this incident. 
He complained initially to this service  specifically about an increase to his insurance 
premium which Admiral  required. But he also made  complaints to Admiral  about how it was 
progressing his claim. This decision will include all of the issues.  My understanding  as I write  
this decision is that the only one that still remains a point of contention is the one relating to 
his insurance premium.
Mr F was unhappy about Admirals offer to settle his claim. It wanted  to write off the vehicle 
and pay the agreed  value  of £4000.  But Mr F was able to find a garage that could repair  his 
vehicle for less as he was concerned  about  the likelihood of being able to replace the classic  
car on the open  market. The cost of the repair was above the limits at which Admiral would 
normally insist on a write off so this created  a dispute.
Admiral offered to instruct an assessor  to consider these options. Mr F was concerned that 
this caused some avoidable delay  over the Christmas period. On this issue our investigator 
felt that Admiral had acted  appropriately and also that the delays had been unavoidable.
This aspect  of the dispute was concluded  with a cash offer for the repair work that Mr F 
accepted. And Admiral  made an offer of £25 in compensation for the confusion around  its 
write off approach.
Mr F was also unhappy that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car and felt that this was 
made worse by the delays that he blamed Admiral  for. But our investigator pointed out that 
Admiral had acted in line with its policy commitments.  It was only required to provide a 
courtesy car when repairs were  being undertaken at an approved  garage, so to some extent 
within its control. In this case Mr F had chosen the garage which wasnt one of Admirals  
approved suppliers. The investigator explained  that courtesy car issues that had arisen with 
the third partys insurer needed  to be pursued with it rather  than with Admiral through  this 
complaint.
The final issue is one which the parties  still dont agree  on and relates to the additional  
premium that Mr F was charged by Admiral. When speaking to Admiral about  the damage  to 
his car Mr F had mentioned some older  minor damage to ensure that Admiral were  aware  
that it wasnt part of this claim. He explained that this had been a minor dent that hed 
assumed had been caused by another car while he was parked and which  hed largely 
repaired himself. Admiral  took the view that this was an incident  that he should have 
reported and would  have changed  the cost of the policy. It said that he needed to pay an 
additional £238.03 during  the current policy year as he hadnt told Admiral  about this when 
his policy  had been renewed.
Ref: DRN13865252Mr F was unhappy with this and complained.  In the interim Admiral offered him the option  to 
pay the extra or cancel his policy without  penalty. He chose to pay the extra  while his 
complaint was pursued with this service. He remained concerned about how Admiral priced 
its policies and how it treated such minor incidents  as being losses  that increased 
policyholders premiums. 
Our investigator upheld  this aspect of the complaint. He felt that Admiral wasnt  entitled to 
treat Mr Fs answers to its original questions as being a misrepresentation. It had taken the 
view that Mr F had been careless in how hed answered its question  about previous claims, 
incidents and losses which  entitled  it to charge the extra money. The investigator  disagreed  
and required  Admiral  to repay the extra amount that Mr F had paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the investigators view on all 
aspects of this complaint.
Admiral acted appropriately in how it progressed Mr Fs claim once it was agreed that an 
assessor would  consider  the cars value and the cost of repair.  It wasnt at fault for the delay 
that Mr F was concerned  about. And neither was it wrong to decline his claim for a courtesy  
car. As the investigator  explained, any issues about  costs being sought by the third partys 
insurer are not Admirals responsibility.
The issue  in dispute now is the additional premium  that Admiral required Mr F to pay.
The law applying  to the responsibilities of consumers when seeking insurance  is laid down in 
the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 which requires that 
they answer questions  asked  by the insurer to the best of their ability,  taking reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. It follows that questions  the insurer relies on need to 
be clear and unambiguous. 
Admiral argues that when Mr F spoke to its agent on the telephone to agree the price of his 
policy, he was asked  have you or any driver  had any accidents, incidents, thefts, losses,  
made any claims  whether fault or non fault  in the last three years? . Mr F was also asked  
to confirm this information  in the policy documentation he was sent. Admiral says that Mr F 
provided incorrect information during the inception call and didnt then correct this when 
prompted to do so by the documentation sent.
Ive listened to the call that Mr F had with Admirals  agent. On the whole it was a 
professional call with a very helpful agent who spent a long time looking at ways  to reduce 
the premium being offered to Mr F for insuring  two cars. The question  about previous 
accidents and incidents was asked.  But compared  to all the helpful and thoughtful support 
from the agent this part of the call was spoken very quickly  as these types  of formal 
questions sometimes are. Mr F answered by referring to a theft that hed suffered which the 
agent confirmed  that he could see a record of. The agent then simply asked if there  was 
any other information or details to Mr Fs knowledge that needed  to be updated on this 
policy.
Admiral might argue that the question was asked and an opportunity given to answer it as 
fully as the consumer chose to. And Admiral  says that it takes  incidents  like the one involving 
the earlier dent as being one that should  be reported. So it follows  that Admiral  argues that it 
Ref: DRN13865253has done what it needs to and that Mr F has failed to meet  its requirements, and those of the 
relevant law, to answer the question  accurately.
But this is where, in my opinion, Admirals expectation moves  away  from being fair to the 
consumer and relies  on literal interpretation without  the appropriate filter of reasonableness.  
In order to have  failed the test Mr F needs to have not taken reasonable care with his 
answer and for the answer to have been  inaccurate. I dont think  that either can reasonably  
be said to be the case here. 
In Admirals view the answer  was wrong  because it takes a view about what  constitutes a 
reportable incident.  But I believe  that a reasonably diligent consumer wouldnt think  that 
something that happens to their car of a minor nature would  be an incident that needs 
reporting to an insurer. A dent or minor scrape in a car park which the consumer wouldnt 
even consider making a claim for, where the culprit is unidentifiable, and when the result 
might be a simple home repair (or no repair at all as purely cosmetic),  is a minor annoyance 
to most people rather than a notifiable incident.  I believe that if Admiral intends  to include 
such issues as notifiable  as part of its agreement to insure then it needs  to be absolutely 
clear on that at every opportunity. This reflects the reality that the insurer  has a regulatory 
responsibility to ensure  that it communicates  in a way that allows  the consumer to make an 
appropriately informed  decision. 
Its not for me to tell Admiral the questions it should  ask. But Id observe that when Mr F 
volunteered that hed had a car stolen and the agent moved onto a more generic question  
about other information or details . to be updated on this policy he could have been  
asked more specifically  whether the theft was the only loss or incident and encouraged to 
give details of even  minor  incidents like scratches and dents.
If that had been  the case then I think Admiral would  have  a better argument for careless 
non- disclosure on the part of Mr F but would still need to satisfy  me that it was careless of 
Mr F to have not remembered and mentioned what was a very minor  incident. 
Both in the context  of the telephone call, and in response to something within the pages of a 
policy document, I dont  believe that Mr F not mentioning  the earlier incident represents a 
careless misrepresentation.  I agree  with the investigators view of this which I thought was 
well explained but Admiral sought  to challenge  it further. I think that the issues raised  by Mr 
F in his complaint  gave Admiral the opportunity to identify a more fair and reasonable 
approach than the one it took in his case but it failed  to respond appropriately.
Having made the decision  to seek an additional  premium I note that Admiral gave Mr F the 
appropriate options available to it under CIDRA, offering him the choice to pay the extra  or 
cancel the policy without penalty  fees. Im satisfied  therefore that Mr F made a free choice to 
pay the extra premium  but note that this was done  to allow  him to remain insured  while  he 
continued to argue his complaint. 
But while I dont see any fault in how Admiral pursued the additional premium once it had 
made its decision, I do have a concern  that in a case like this Admiral  is in danger of putting 
the policy holder  at a substantial disadvantage. If the nature of a minor dent incident, like this 
one, is properly identified  at inception then the consumer has the chance to see the impact it 
would have on his policy premium and make an informed decision whether to accept that 
price or shop around for better. Admiral is entitled  to rate incidents  however it chooses and 
this service doesnt seek to assess whether a non-fault and non-claim incident such as this 
Ref: DRN13865254should attract an additional charge. But if the process of identifying the incident, and 
specifying the price, takes place at the outset then the consumer  isnt disadvantaged in the 
same way that he is if he accepts a policy and then later is told by Admiral  that the price 
needs to be adjusted. 
In this case Mr F was extremely price conscious at the outset and made that very clear to 
Admiral in the long telephone call in which a number of adjustments were discussed with the 
intention to keep  the price  as low as possible. I believe that like many other consumers, Mr F 
was more likely to agree, even unhappily, to pay an extra premium to keep his policy  than he 
was to agree  to take the policy  if the price  had been  identified at the outset. As Admiral 
chooses to rate minor  incidents such as this in the way that it has then I believe that it failed 
to do what was necessary  to establish  the details when calculating the initial premium.
I think that Admiral has failed to treat Mr F fairly and I agree with the investigator that it 
should repay the extra premium, with interest.  I also agree that compensation of £100  should 
be paid for the trouble and upset  that this incident  has caused Mr F. Its also appropriate that 
if not already done then Admiral should  ensure that the earlier incident is recorded as 
notification only on its records. 
Admiral is entitled to treat such an incident as it chooses for the purpose  of calculating its 
premiums. I agree with the points made by Admiral on this issue.  So Admiral remains  free to 
use such information in whatever way that its underwriting approach dictates. This service 
doesnt seek to interfere with the factors that insurers choose to take into account when 
assessing risk and setting  premiums.  That is not the issue  in dispute in this case, but rather  
whether Mr F had failed  to meet the requirements to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation and whether it was fair for an additional premium to be sought as a result.
  
my final decision
I uphold in part this complaint against Admiral Insurance Company Limited and require  it to 
refund the additional premium of £238.03 plus interest from the date of payment until repaid 
at the annual rate of 8% simple.
Admiral should also pay Mr F compensation for his inconvenience in this case  of £100 on 
top of the £25 already  offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1386525