K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc recorded a Credit  Industry  Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against his name. CIFAS is one of the UKs  fraud  
prevention agencies.
Background
In April 2019, the following transactions took place on Mr Ks NatWest current account:
Date Amount Debit/credit Transaction
09/04/19 £6,705 Credit CHAPS transfer
09/04/19 £6,705 Debit Online banking transfer
29/04/19 £2,705 Credit CHAPS transfer
30/04/19 £2,705 Debit Online banking transfer
20/05/19 £9,410 Credit Automated credit
As well as a current account, since 2015,  Mr K had opened nine instant saver accounts with 
NatWest. When  the credits were received, four of these savings accounts were  still open.
The online banking transfers were  made  to an account in Mr Ks name with another  bank.
The payments into the account were later reported to NatWest  to be fraudulent.  NatWest  
then gave notice  to close all of Mr Ks accounts and it recorded a marker against his name 
with CIFAS.
Mr K said he didnt  know anything about the transactions and that he didnt make the 
transfers out to his other account. He also said he didnt open the instant saver accounts and 
that hes been a victim of identity theft.  When NatWest  told him the transactions  had been  
reported as fraudulent he arranged to pay the money  back.
But NatWest  wouldnt remove the CIFAS  marker,  so Mr K brought  his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
NatWest had closed  the accounts in line with its terms  and conditions  and that, based  on the 
information shed  seen, the CIFAS marker hadnt  been incorrectly recorded. 
Mr K didnt agree saying,  in summary, that:
He never acted fraudulently on the account.  As soon as NatWest told him about the 
transactions, he tried to resolve the issue but found NatWest  would not help him. He 
could have kept the money,  but arranged to repay it.
Hes never been involved with any kind of fraud and has had no problems with any of 
his other bank accounts.
He may have been negligent in failing to secure  his accounts and in not closing 
accounts that he wasnt using, but this isnt enough to deserve a CIFAS marker. The 
marker is having  an impact on his life and hes worried  he will lose his job.
Ref: DRN16638312My provisional findings
I agreed with the investigator, but gave both parties a final opportunity  to provide further 
evidence. I set out why I didnt  think  the complaint should be upheld as follows:
Im satisfied that the payments  into Mr Ks account were as a result of fraud.  Their  
own banks will have investigated those payments before reaching that conclusion 
and reporting  this to NatWest.  Mr K may not necessarily have been involved in this. 
But he says he had no knowledge of the withdrawals either.
The withdrawals were  made using Mr Ks online banking  log in. And the money was 
transferred to an account in Mr Ks name. In responding to our investigator, Mr K said 
he may have been negligent in failing to secure his accounts. But hes not explained 
what he means by this. He didnt  report to NatWest, or tell us, that his online banking 
security information had been compromised. Ive not seen evidence to show  how a 
third party might have been  able to access Mr Ks accounts without him knowing.  
And even  if a third party did make  the transfers without Mr Ks authority, in all 
likelihood they would  have transferred the money  for their own benefit. There is no 
reasonable explanation  as to why they would transfer the money to an account in 
Mr Ks name.
Taking into account these  transactions, and the history of the conduct of the various 
accounts, I dont  think  NatWest acted wrongly  in closing Mr Ks accounts. Im not 
persuaded that Mr Ks account of events is accurate. I think  he knows  more about 
what happened than he has told NatWest or our service. In the circumstances,  I am 
satisfied that there was enough evidence for NatWest to place a CIFAS marker 
against his name.
I have taken into account the impact  that this has had on Mr K and thought about the 
fact that he made arrangements to return the fraudulent payment. But this doesnt 
make a difference to my conclusion. I dont think that his decision to return the 
payments changes his likely involvement  in the fraudulent transactions.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence or information,  I find no reason to 
depart from my earlier  conclusions.
Ref: DRN16638313My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1663831