K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the settlement offered by Ageas Insurance  Limited under a buildings 
insurance claim.
background
Mr G made  a claim after finding a leak in the bathroom. Ageas accepted  the claim, but Mr G 
was unhappy  with the quality of a replacement vanity unit, and that he was asked to 
contribute towards the cost of replacement tiles. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He agreed with Mr G that the 
replacement vanity unit wasnt of the same quality as the previous one. He thought  Ageas 
should pay a cash settlement  based on a quote Mr G had obtained  from the original 
manufacturer.
In respect of the tiles, our investigator noted  that Ageas had asked Mr G to pay 50% of the 
cost of the undamaged tiles that were replaced. He explained this was in line with the policy 
terms, and our general approach. However,  Ageas  had included a cost for mosaic tiles, but 
Mr G had confirmed the bathroom didnt have  mosaic  tiles. Our investigator said the amount 
included for mosaic tiles should be reimbursed to Mr G. 
Finally, the investigator  thought Ageas should  pay £100 compensation for its handling of the 
matter. 
Ageas didnt accept  all our investigators  recommendations,  so the matter has been passed 
to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Vanity unit
I agree  with Mr G that the new vanity unit installed by Ageas  wasnt  a suitable  replacement. 
From the photos hes provided, its apparent that the replacement unit wasnt  of the same 
quality or style as the previous one. 
Mr G has provided  a quote from the original manufacturer which says a direct  match  to the 
original would cost £1,133,98. I agree with our investigator that itd be reasonable for Ageas 
to make a cash settlement for this amount. As Mr G will need to arrange  for his own 
contractor to remove the existing unit and install the new one, Ageas  should also reimburse 
him for the cost of this. Im pleased to see that Ageas has accepted  this.
Tiles
The policy says:
Pairs, sets and suites
We will pay for the cost of repairing or replacing  the damaged part or parts. If there are 
undamaged parts which form part of a pair, set, suite  or part of a common  design and we 
Ref: DRN16756312cannot get a reasonable  match in colour or design,  we will pay 50% of the cost of replacing 
the undamaged  parts.
Not all of the wall tiles were damaged by the escape  of water.  Under the policy,  Ageas is 
only required  to replace the damaged tiles. However, as the damaged  tiles couldnt be 
replaced with the same  tiles to match the undamaged ones, that meant all the wall tiles 
needed to be replaced. I think  fair compensation in such circumstances would be for Ageas 
to pay 50% of the cost to replace the undamaged  tiles, which  is also in line with its policy 
terms. 
Ageas asked Mr G to pay £879.42 for his 50% of the costs of the undamaged tiles, which  he 
paid. However, Mr G says that Ageas didnt provide him with any breakdown as to how it 
reached this figure. 
Ageas contractor has said that the total wall tiling in the bathroom was 18.80m2, and that 
the £879.42 wasnt only for the replacement tiles, but also included grouting, spacers, 
adhesive and labour (plus  VAT). I accept this. However, under the schedule  of work, Ageas 
has included  a figure of £160.52 for mosaic  wall tiles. 
Initially, Ageas said this figure had been  included because the bathroom included  a border of 
mosaic tiles. Mr G explained that whilst the original bathroom had a border of tiles, the 
replacement tiles did not. He provided  photos which confirmed this. Ageas then said the 
charge was for porcelain tiles, however  Mr G confirmed that the only porcelain tiles were  on 
the floor not the walls. Ageas then said that Mr G wasnt charged for mosaic  tiles, but this 
contradicts the information on the schedule of works, which shows  that the total figure  of 
£879.42 included  £160.52 for mosaic tiles.
Given that the replacement tiles didnt  include any mosaic,  border  or porcelain tiles, I agree 
with our investigator that Ageas  shouldnt have charged Mr G for these. It should therefore 
reimburse him for this amount, including the VAT it included, and then add interest.
I also think Ageas caused Mr G unnecessary inconvenience by refusing to accept that it had 
charged him an incorrect amount for the tiles, and by continuing to provide confusing  
information that Mr G had to refute several  times. I think £100 compensation to recognise 
this inconvenience  would  be reasonable in these circumstances.
Other issues
Mr G had also raised concerns that Ageas had initially intended to settle his claim based  on 
local rates  of labour and materials. This is a common way for insurers to settle claims, so I 
dont have an issue with Ageas doing  so. However,  when  Mr G made Ageas aware he was 
unhappy with this, it appointed a loss adjuster to manage his claim and arrange  the 
settlement, which I think was reasonable. 
Ive noted Mr Gs concerns about  the time taken for the claim to be dealt with, but I see there  
was a lot of discussion between the parties  over various aspects of the claim,  which  delayed  
matters. I dont think Ageas caused any unnecessary delays. 
Finally, although  Mr G was unhappy with the contractors Ageas chose to carry out the work 
(one of those reasons being  the length  of their commute to the property),  as the investigator  
has explained, it was up to Ageas which contractors it chose. 
Ref: DRN16756313my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Mr G £1,133.98  to replace  the vanity unit. It should also cover the cost of his 
contractor removing  the current unit and fitting the new one. 
Reimburse Mr G £160.52  plus the VAT he paid for the mosaic tiles. Interest should 
then be added to this at the rate of 8% simple  per annum from the date he paid this 
amount to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr G £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
 If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN1675631