K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mrs E and the late Mr E 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mrs Es comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
I think Nationwide made Mrs E and Mr E aware that the PPI was optional, and that they 
still chose to take it.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs E and Mr E, as being particularly suited to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs E and Mr E to decide whether it was suitable. 
But even  if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time.  Not being able to pay a mortgage  can 
cause significant  difficulties, and the PPI would have paid out in addition to any employer 
sickness and redundancy benefits,  and possibly for longer. And Ive not been  told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So it would have 
been potentially  useful. 
It looks as though Nationwide made clear what the costs  of the PPI would be. So I think  
Mrs E and Mr E would have understood how much it would cost. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mrs E (the person covered) would have  been affected by any of these 
significantly. Its likely they were eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying  for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel  it at any time without  further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN15632802Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1563280