K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt give him an appointment to discuss  why he wasnt 
eligible for an overdraft. And hes unhappy  Lloyds called the police to remove  him from the 
branch.
To settle  matters Mr D would like Lloyds to acknowledge it made an exaggeration when it 
called the police and to sit down  and discuss his account with him.
background
Mr D opened a bank account  with Lloyds in May 2018. Mr D says he was told that if he 
managed his account well and had a regular income hed get an overdraft. Six months after 
opening the account, Mr D visited a branch  of Lloyds to apply for an overdraft but he was 
declined.
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint arent  agreed  by the parties  so Ive tried to 
summarise  using my own words  Mr Ds and Lloyds accounts of what  happened.
Lloyds says Mr D refused to accept  that his overdraft application had been declined.  Mr D 
asked for an appointment to speak to someone  about this but he was told all advisors in the 
branch were  busy with appointments.
Lloyds says Mr D started  shouting in the branch. When  an advisor became free he was 
taken to a pod and the adviser explained  that he wasnt eligible for an overdraft and he was 
told there could be lots of reasons why. Lloyds  says Mr D refused to accept this and wanted  
the advisor to override  the declined application  which she was unable  to do.
Lloyds says Mr D continued  to shout and wasnt listening  to what  he was being told. The 
advisor told Mr D she would  leave  him as she was unable to help him any further but at this 
point Lloyds says he became more aggressive  and angry.
Mr D says he did raise his voice but only after the advisor walked  away from him. He says 
his behaviour wasnt aggressive  and intimidating like Lloyds says. He says another  
customer interfered in his conversation with the branch staff.  And he also says a member of 
staff told him that if he wasnt happy then  he should  go back to his country.  The branch 
manager doesnt believe any of her term would  have said this.
Lloyds explained  that Mr Ds behaviour escalated to the point where a member of staff 
asked him to leave  the branch but when he refused, Lloyds called the police. Lloyds says 
that when the police arrived, Mr D still refused to leave-  so the police  removed him from 
the branch  and spoke to him.
Mr D thinks the branch staff exaggerated  his behaviour and the police  shouldnt  have  
been  called .
Mr D complained to Lloyds but it didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that overdrafts are 
subject to eligibility   and it wouldnt guarantee a customers eligibility for an overdraft at a 
future date as this is dependent on individual circumstances at the time. It also said it would 
support a decision to end a customers banking relationship if the safety of its staff couldnt 
be achieved.
Ref: DRN14537822Unhappy with Lloyds  response Mr D referred  his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator thought that both parties  accounts  confirmed  that Mr D did have a problem 
when he was refused  an overdraft.
Lloyds told our service that its advisors  may tell new customers  to Lloyds that they must  
bank with it for six months before looking  to see if they can be offered an overdraft. Our 
investigator explained that this doesnt  mean that all customers  are guaranteed to receive  
an overdraft once they've held an account with the bank  for six months.  Lloyds 
acknowledged there was a misunderstanding  and that it had tried to apologise for this 
when he was refused the overdraft.
The investigator noted that Mr Ds bank statements showed he had only started  receiving 
a regular income into his account a few months  before he applied  for his overdraft and 
that Lloyds had explained to Mr D at the time that this may have been why his overdraft 
application wasnt successful.
Our investigator understood that Mr D was upset and that he wanted to speak to someone 
about this. But he thought  Lloyds  acted reasonably because there werent any available 
advisers as they were  booked.
Our investigator appreciated that Mr D felt embarrassed about being removed from 
the branch  by the police, but he thought Mr Ds refusal to leave after being asked to do so 
warranted the police being involved.
He couldnt say whether a member of staff had made a rude remark to him but as Mr D was 
left feeling upset our investigator said it was up to Lloyds to decide whether it thought an 
apology appropriate.
Mr D disagrees  with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says Lloyds refusal to set up an appointment for him was a refusal not just for that particular  
day but also at all. He says he wasnt told what was needed to be accepted for an overdraft 
such as being  registered on the electoral  role and that the branch  staff told him the eligibility 
criteria for overdrafts had changed since he opened  his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive looked carefully at 
the information provided by both parties and Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator.
I dont have any way of knowing what Mr D was told when he opened his account. Lloyds 
acknowledged its advisors may tell customers who are new to the bank  that they must bank 
with Lloyds for six months before they can look at offering  them an overdraft. But this doesnt  
mean that all customers are guaranteed to receive an overdraft once theyve had an account  
for six months.  Lloyds  acknowledged this was a misunderstanding  and the customer  notes 
Ive seen show it tried to apologise  to Mr D at the time.
I can understand why Mr D might have  been upset when he was refused an overdraft. But I 
cant say Lloyds acted  unfairly. I say this because before offering credit to consumers, 
Ref: DRN14537823financial businesses need to ensure that any borrowing  is affordable. The terms and 
conditions applicable to Mr D make clear that overdrafts are subject  to meeting Lloyds eligibility 
criteria and Id therefore expect Lloyds to carry out a careful assessment of Mr Ds 
circumstances to ensure  he met its internal eligibility criteria.
I can understand why Mr D would like to know Lloyds eligibility criteria but financial 
businesses arent  required to disclose these as they are confidential.
The bank statements provided  by Lloyds show that Mr D had only started receiving a regular 
income into his account from July 2018   three months before he applied for his overdraft. 
The customer notes provided by Lloyds show that Lloyds  explained  that this might  be the 
reason his application was declined.
I understand that Mr D wanted to speak to someone  about  his overdraft being declined.  I 
dont think Lloyds acted  unfairly when it wasnt able to offer him an appointment to discuss  
this because Lloyds  told us its advisors  were  busy with other appointments for the rest of the 
day so I dont think it was unreasonable that Lloyds wasnt able to offer him an appointment.
However, even though  Lloyds couldnt  offer a formal  appointment, I think  it did what it could 
to try to discuss matters with him. I say this because the branch managers account of 
events suggests  he was taken to a pod to discuss matters.
I realise Mr D says he was refused an appointment not just for that day but also for other 
days. Again  I dont  have any way of knowing what was discussed at the time. I can 
understand why Mr D might have  been  upset not to be offered an appointment  but even if he 
had been offered an appointment  I cant say it would have altered the outcome because  
Lloyds had already told him he wasnt eligible for an overdraft. It follows that I cant say this 
had a significant impact  on him.
Mr D says he was told by Lloyds that its eligibility criteria for overdrafts had changed. I cant 
find that Lloyds  treated  him unfairly because Lloyds is entitled  to change its terms and 
conditions and to change its eligibility requirements for the products it offers. I can also see 
that Lloyds final response letter made clear that although Mr D was currently  ineligible  for an 
overdraft, Lloyds made clear that this didnt mean it wouldnt be able to assess  his eligibility 
in the future.
Finally, I dont think Lloyds treated Mr D unfairly when it called the police.  Again  I have  no 
way of knowing what actually happened  at the time but in addition to Mr Ds version of 
events, Lloyds also provided the branch managers account of events that day. The 
information provided by Lloyds  shows Mr D refused to leave the bank after being  told several 
times to do so and based on the information Ive seen I cant say Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in calling the police in these circumstances. In terms of the rude remark  which  
Mr D says was made I cant know for certain what was said at the time but the branch 
managers account of events on the day is that she didnt believe any of her team  would say 
this. As the accounts of what happened  at the time are contradictory  I wont  be asking  Lloyds 
to apologise and I will leave Lloyds to decide  if they think an apology is appropriate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN14537824Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1453782