K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Active Securities Limited  (ASL), trading as 24/7 Moneybox,  lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Mr P had eight loans with ASL. Ive included some  of the information ASL provided about the 
loans in the table below.  This decision is only about loans 6 to 8  but Ive set out the whole 
lending history to provide  context.
Loan  no. Amount  (£) Start date End date
1 100 05/10/2010 15/10/2010
2 100 28/10/2010 17/11/2010
3 200 20/11/2010 17/03/2011
4 150 30/06/2011 15/07/2011
5 200 18/07/2011 16/12/2011
6 360 22/05/2012 18/07/2012
7 475 19/07/2012 17/10/2012
8 475 18/10/2012 22/03/2018
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  it be upheld.  She thought the 
three loans  in question were  not provided  responsibly. Although ASL initially responded to 
the adjudicator,  it didnt  confirm whether or not it agreed with her opinion. As the complaint 
wasnt resolved, it was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
ASL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that ASL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN13940302refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that ASL was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Im not going  to say whether or not ASLs checks were proportionate for loans 6 to 8. Thats 
because in looking at Mr Ps case I also looked  at the overall pattern of ASLs lending history  
with him, with a view to seeing if there  was a point at which  ASL should reasonably have 
seen that further  lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so ASL should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point ASL ought to have  realised Mr P was not managing to repay their loans 
sustainably. Prior  to loan 6, Mr P had been persistently indebted to ASL for 
14 months. So by the time Mr P had repaid  loan 5, ASL ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr P was having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that his indebtedness  was increasing 
unsustainably.
Although there was a five month gap between loans 5 and 6, I dont think  this was 
long enough  that ASL couldve reasonable assumed  Mr Ps finances had improved. 
The length  of the gap isnt that significant compared  to the period of indebtedness 
and the amount of time Mr P took to repay  some  of his earlier  loans suggested he 
was struggling to repay  them  on time.
The amount  Mr P wanted  to borrow was increasing by more than threefold compared  
to his first two loans.  At this point  ASL ought to have realised that Mr P was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need.
I think that Mr P lost out because ASL continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
Ref: DRN13940303these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time;
the length of time over which Mr P borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 6 to 8.
putting things right  what ASL needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 6 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 8 should be removed from Mr Ps 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires ASL to take off tax from this interest.  ASL must give Mr P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint. Active  Securities Limited 
should put things right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1394030