K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that National  Westminster  Bank  PLC (NatWest)  failed to update  him when 
the terms of his mobile phone insurancea  benefit  of his packaged bank account
changed.  
background
Mr C has held a packaged bank account  with NatWest for many  years.  One of the features 
of the account  is that it comes with mobile  phone insurance, underwritten  by another 
financial business (the insurer). Mr C says that, when he opened the account,  he was told 
the insurance could  be used to cover any handset. 
In 2018, Mr C registered his wifes mobile phone  on the policy.  When  she cracked her phone 
screen in early 2019, he notified a claim on the mobile phone insurance. This was declined. 
The insurer  said the terms had changed since Mr C took out his account, and it now only 
covered phones being used by the account-holder. Mr C says NatWest never told him about 
this change to the terms. When  he complained about this, NatWest said it had sent him 
updated terms in 2014 which made it clear that the cover was now for account-holders only. 
As did other  documents  it had sent out over the years.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr C referred the matter to our service. He said he didnt 
receive the 2014 update.  And the other documents hed received from NatWest only set out 
the terms in small  print  and didnt  mention any changes . Our investigator looked into the 
matter, and initially wasnt convinced  that NatWest had clearly communicated the change. 
But on receipt of internal  audit trails,  he became satisfied that it had sent updated terms and 
statements which made the restriction on cover clear.   
Mr C disagreed with this view. He forwarded us a number  of emails from NatWest,  which  he 
thought showed it hadnt made the changes clear. And he pointed out that one email  from 
2012 suggested that the phone already had to belong  to the account-holder at that stage. 
His complaint has now been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mr C has highlighted an email from 2012 which said the phone had to belong to the account-
holder for cover to apply.  He believes  this contradicts NatWests version of events  as it 
says the term in question changed  in 2014.  And he queries whether the bank would in fact 
have informed him of a change by post in 2014 when it had emailed in 2012. But in 2012, 
the cover  was being provided by a different  insurer  to the one which declined the recent 
claim. And the emails Mr C has forwarded  me show that the terms have  changed several 
times since 2012. So I dont consider the 2012  term to have much of a bearing on the 
outcome of this complaint. Essentially, what Im considering is  did NatWest clearly 
communicate the changed term which the new insurer relied on to decline the claim?
The term preventing  cover when the phone wasnt in use by the account-holder was 
introduced in April 2014. And Mr C has forwarded  us the following email from NatWest, sent 
in February 2014:
Ref: DRN17223942Were updating your Advantage  Gold Account
We'd like to let you know about  the changes we're making to your Advantage Gold  
Account benefits  which will take effect from 1 April 2014. To help you, we've  
summarised the key changes below.
Mobile Phone Insurance
We are increasing the excess you pay from £50 to £75 if you make  a claim.
Don't forget you're automatically covered by your Mobile Phone Insurance and you 
can get a replacement phone within 48 hours of your claim being accepted.
You don't  have to do anything
These changes will take place automatically.
Please read the leaflets attached which give you all the details of these changes,  
including important reminders about  overdraft  fees and charges and the protection  in 
place for your money.  Print or save  these documents so you can check  them  
whenever you need to.
If you'd like to talk to us about these changes  please  contact us and we'll be happy  to 
help. A reminder of your benefits
Your Advantage Gold Account gives you a wide range of benefits  - have a look 
online at membershipbenefits.natwest.com to ensure you're making the most of 
them. You can also call our Membership  Services team on [redacted].
The email  itself didnt  say that the policy only provided cover  if the phone  was being used by 
the account-holder. But it did tell Mr C to read the attached  leaflet about  the changes. This 
gave a more detailed breakdown of the changes:
Section 1: Summary of main changes  to our Benefit Terms 
Mobile Phone Insurance
We are making changes to your Advantage Gold Account Mobile  Phone  Insurance 
Terms. The following is a summary of the main changes to your policy:  
The amount  of the excess that you need to pay each time that you make a 
successful claim will increase  from £50 to £75. 
Your phone will no longer be covered while being used by a person other  than 
you  even if you have given  that person permission to use your phone. (Cover is 
provided for one phone, unless your Advantage Gold  Account is in joint names,  in 
which case cover  is provided  for one phone per account holder, with a maximum 
of two phones per account.)

Its important that significant or unusual restrictions on coverespecially when taking away 
cover previously enjoyedare expressly  highlighted so that policyholders  can make 
informed decisions.  This has long been regarded as good industry practice  (cf. Association  
of British Insurers statements of practice)  and is now part of the regulatory regime  
governing financial  services. 
Ref: DRN17223943It may have been helpful if NatWest had included the point about only covering phones used 
by the account-holder  in the email  itself. But there  is a limit to how much  information it could 
reasonably and clearly  include in the body of the email. There is a risk that too much  
highlighting will only overload and obscure the really important  points  and leave  
consumers with a summary thats  as long and complicated as the so-called small print. 
Ultimately, the email did instruct Mr C to read the attached leaflet,  which he could access by 
clicking a large green  box which  said Download  changes and reminders. The disputed 
restriction, which Mr C says he wasnt made  aware  of, was in fact highlighted as a main 
change  and, indeed, was the second  point mentioned in that section. Im therefore 
satisfied this restriction and change was adequately highlighted  at the material  time.
 
Mr Cs bank account was held with NatWest. But the phone insurance along with several 
other benefits of the account was  provided by a third party. So Id consider  it reasonable to 
anticipate that the account benefits  from the point-of-sale  werent  guaranteed  indefinitely. 
They were  seemingly reviewed on a yearly basis. I agree  that NatWest  had a duty to clearly 
communicate the changes to Mr C. But there is also some onus on him to keep up-to-date 
with prominently-highlighted changes, and to make  sure hes aware of the conditions  of any 
insurance hes relying on.
Bearing this in mind, Ive also considered  the later communication Mr C received from 
NatWest. Im satisfied these were sufficient  to put him on notice that the insurance  only 
covered phones owned and used by him. For example, when his account  was transferred 
from an Advantage Gold Account to a Select Platinum Account in 2015, he was sent a 
document about the change which summarised the main benefits of the account. In the 
section about  mobile  phone  insurance,  it said:
Your phone isnt covered  if its being  used by someone else such  as a friend  or your 
child, even if youve  given  them  permission to use it
NatWest also sent yearly reminders  of the main  features of the account.  Im satisfied these 
also made the terms clear. For example, Mr C has forwarded us a statement  of eligibility 
from 2017 which included  the following points in a table  titled  Summary of Key Exclusions & 
Limitations for the Reward Platinum :
The policy doesnt cover phones you dont own 
Your phone isnt covered while being  used by anyone else,  even if youve given  that 
person permission
Mr C points out that this statement describes the summary as a reminder rather  than a 
change to the benefits. Thats correct;  the term in question changed in 2014.  Id still expect 
him to take note of these summaries  as they served to keep him updated on the key 
features of his account, including any changes he may have missed. 
Ultimately, Mr C is unhappy that his claim was turned down. This wasnt  NatWests decision;  
it was the decision  of the insurer. I can only hold NatWest accountable for communicating 
information about the changing terms. And Im satisfied that NatWest  met its requirements in 
this regard
Ref: DRN17223944In passing, I note that Mr C has also complained to the insurer  about his claim being 
declined. Its not in dispute that the claim wasnt covered under the term of the policy. But, if 
a customer wasnt notified about a changed term which affected the validity  of their claim, 
our service  wouldnt  consider it fair for an insurer to rely on that to reject  their claim. In 
Mr Cs case, Ive already  decided that the altered  term was made clear to him. So, without 
prejudice to any future complaint to us against the insurer, he may wish to take account of 
that when considering his options. For the avoidance of doubt, each case  is determined  on 
its own merits according to the facts  and evidence before us. 
In the circumstances of this particular case against  NatWest, I dont consider there  to be 
sufficient grounds to uphold it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1722394