K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mr and Mrs W say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  to them  in 2008. 
background
The policy only covered  Mr W. Mrs W wasnt named  on it.
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this complaint  and recommended that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ws central points of complaint  are that the policy  wasnt explained  to them  
enough and it was something  they didnt really  need.
I dont think theres any real doubt there  was a discussion  about the MPPI at the point of 
sale. It seems  it was sold at their mortgage  interview  and I can see they both signed a 
specific application form for the MPPI  which was different  to their mortgage application. 
They also both signed a direct debit mandate to authorise the MPPI monthly  premiums  to 
be transferred from their bank account. They also signed a NatWest form which said I want  
to apply for Mortgage  Repayment Protection through NatWest.
So I think theres reliable  and comprehensive  evidence Mr and Mrs W discussed  having 
MPPI with their new mortgage  and I think theyd have been able see it was something they 
had a choice about. They themselves say it was suggested to them  and I see it was stated 
on their Mortgage Offer  a document I feel they would  have  wanted  to read carefully - that 
they didnt need to buy any insurance  from NatWest. It also said the only insurance the 
needed (with any provider) was buildings cover.
So I think its much  more  likely Mr and Mrs W properly  consented  the MPPI.
NatWest says it didnt carry out an advised sale. Businesses that recommended MPPI as 
part of an advised  sale had a responsibility  to ensure it was right for the consumers 
particular circumstances.  Non-advised meant the seller only had to ensure the information 
provided was clear enough  for the consumers themselves to make a decision about 
whether or not they wanted MPPI.
But I dont think the type of sale matters  much to this case  anyway because  I think the 
policy was suitable.  I think Mr W was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
major exclusions  we sometimes see in these types  of policy.  The cost seems  affordable  
and Mr W was the higher  earner, so this may be why they decided to cover only him.
Ref: DRN18221312I also think their mortgage was an important and a long-term financial commitment  and 
importantly, one which was secured  against their home. So the consequences  of not being 
able to keep up the repayments  if their income  suddenly dropped could have  been  serious.  
The MPPI on the other hand, was there to help in times of financial uncertainty  and to 
provide support in the event of Mr W not being able to work or losing his job. It would have 
paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  in the event of a successful claim and this would 
have been in addition to any other means they already had in place. 
I think these things show the MPPI was suitable  in their situation. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs W have said about  the policy not being fully 
explained and the fact that Mrs W appears to have  been out of work, yet she didnt make 
any claim on the policy. However we know this was a policy in only Mr Ws name,  so Mrs W 
would never  have been eligible to claim.  
I obviously cant say that NatWest told them everything it ought  to have done. Nevertheless, 
the documents Ive described above do tend to show  the MPPI was discussed in detail and 
I think this would have  taken some time. NatWest also showed me a copy  of the MPPI  
terms and conditions which it said would  have been  given to Mr and Mrs W. Ive got no 
reason to think Mr W wouldnt have been  given a copy of these.  
Overall, I think they would have had enough information to make an informed decision 
about what they wanted to do.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs W and Im sure they now honestly and genuinely feel the 
MPPI was mis-sold.  However the evidence points strongly the other way. It shows that in 
2008 they properly consented  to the MPPI and tailored it to their circumstances.  It wasnt  
mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint or direct National Westminster  
Bank Plc to do anything  further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1822131