K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Unum Ltd has declined a claim  he made on his income protection  
insurance policy. 
background
In September  2018 Mr M made a claim on his income protection policy.  He said that hed 
been experiencing severe concentration difficulties, anxiety and mental  fatigue.  Mr M said 
hed had a number of tests and accessed medical  support but he was unable  to work due to 
the difficulties  he was experiencing.
Unum declined Mr Ms claim on the basis that he didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity. Mr M made a complaint but Unum maintained that they had fairly declined  the 
claim on the basis of the available  medical evidence. Mr M made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think Unum had acted unfairly  when  declining the claim as there  wasnt evidence of a 
disabling medical  condition or that Mr M was unable  to do his occupation due to incapacity. 
Mr M asked  an ombudsman  to review his complaint. In summary, he says that hes unable  to 
work and the medical evidence is supportive of that. So, I need to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. 
Its for Mr M to demonstrate that he does  have a valid claim,  not for Unum to demonstrate 
that he doesnt. And in order to successfully claim on the policy  Mr M needs to demonstrate 
that he has met the definition of incapacity.  Incapacity is defined as: 
The total inability of the Insured by reason only of sickness or injury  to follow  his 
Occupation. 
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because I dont think it was unreasonable  for Unum to 
reject the claim. I say that because: 
Mr M was diagnosed with possible mild cognitive  impairment  in February  2018.  But 
on the detailed  cognitive examination he scored 97/100  meaning  that he lost only 
three points in fluency. A neuropsychological  assessment in March  2018 identified 
only subtle impairments on some of the verbal fluency tasks. And a consultant 
diagnosed mild cognitive impairment at a memory clinic. So, the medical evidence 
doesnt suggest that Mr M is totally unable to do his occupation as the policy  terms 
require
To date there has been no organic issue identified which explains the range and 
severity of Mr Ms symptoms. I appreciate that Mr M is having  further  tests  and 
investigations but Unum can only assess the claim on the basis of the available 
information provided at the time.  And, as Ive outlined  above, the position remains 
Ref: DRN10161512that there  isnt persuasive medical evidence  to support that Mr M was experiencing 
severe concentration difficulties, anxiety and mental fatigue to the extent that it would 
prevent him from working
Ive taken into account the more  recent  documentation provided by Mr M, including a 
note from his doctor which says he has ongoing  symptoms and is unable to work. But 
this doesnt change my thoughts about  the overall outcome of this complaint. The 
information from the GP doesnt  represent  a detailed  or persuasive assessment of 
Mr Ms functional  capability in relation to his own occupation.  It also reflects the 
current position, rather than the position at the time Mr M made his claim. So, I dont 
think this means  that Unum unfairly  declined Mr Ms claim
Im sorry  to hear that Mr M has been unwell  and I dont  wish to suggest that his 
reporting of his condition is exaggerated or untrue. However, based on the medical 
evidence available  and the policy definition of incapacity, I dont think Unum  acted 
unreasonably when declining the claim.  
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2021.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1016151