K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the service hes received from The Prudential Assurance  Company 
Limited. 
background
Mr R and his wife went through a divorce  and following this a court issued  a Pension Sharing 
Order (PSO) in 1999. The order was to remain in place  until such times as Mr Rs ex-wife 
cohabited for six months, remarried or a further  court order was issued. This continued until 
2018 with the former  Mrs R receiving 50% of the benefits of Mr Rs pension.  
In March 2018 Prudential became aware that Mr Rs ex-wife had changed her name when 
they received  a request  to change the name on the cheques they were issuing. It was 
confirmed to them in April 2018 that shed  remarried  in 2003 and was now Mrs L. 
In September  2018 Prudential paid Mr R 50% and correctly stopped the other 50% going to 
Mrs L. In November 2018 Prudential wrote to Mr R and let him know  his wife was no longer 
entitled to 50% of his pension payments as shed remarried  in 2003. They went  on to pay 
him the remaining 50% that would have  been  due in September,  in December  2018.
Mr R complained to Prudential. He was unhappy  that Prudential  hadnt contacted him 
sooner. He believes Prudential were at fault for failing to stop payments to his ex-wife  which  
amount to around  £26,000. He wants Prudential  to reimburse him this amount. 
Prudential responded to the complaint and in summary said:
It was Mrs Ls responsibility to notify  them  of a change in circumstances and they 
werent at fault for making payments  based on the information they held. 
They accepted  they should have notified  him sooner that his wife was no longer 
entitled to 50% of his pension. 
They also acknowledged  they hadnt  handled his complaint as well as they would 
have liked.
They have paid £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused  by the service 
theyd given. 
They made an additional payment of around £14 to compensate for 8% interest  on 
the late payment  of the second  50% from September 2018.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with this response and brought his complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She agreed there 
had been some service  failings by Prudential, but she thought  the compensation already 
paid was fair. And she didnt think Prudential were at fault for continuing to make  payments 
to Mrs L, as they couldnt reasonably have  known that shed remarried. 
Mr R disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. I know Mr R feels  very strongly about this, 
so Id like to explain why.
Ref: DRN15026642Id like to make clear that Im only able to consider the actions of Prudential and Im not able 
to direct any other party to take any action in relation to this complaint. 
Understandably, the main  point of Mr Rs complaint is that Prudential made payments to
Mrs L between 2003 and 2018 which she wasnt entitled to. Ive thought carefully about this 
point and Im sorry to tell Mr R that I dont think Prudential were  at fault for making these 
payments. I dont think they had an obligation  to check whether or not his ex-wife had 
remarried. They were reliant upon  the information  provided to them and I dont think they can 
be fairly blamed  for Mrs L not informing them of her marriage in 2003. 
It follows on from this that I dont think there is any reason for Prudential to refund Mr R what  
theyve paid Mrs L and then to pursue her for this money themselves. The dispute is 
between Mr R and Mrs L and this is something  Mr R may wish to seek  legal advice about. 
Mr R says he thinks the court order only refers  to annual payments,  so even if Prudential 
were within their rights to pay Mrs L 50% of the annual  payments, they shouldnt  have paid 
her a share of his ad-hoc  withdrawals. He also refers to the wording used in Prudentials final 
response letter dated 3 January 2019.  Specifically that no payments were due until 
September 2018. He interprets this as supporting  that ad-hoc payments should not have 
been made to Mrs L under the terms of the court  order.  
Ive looked carefully  at the court order which says that Mr R must pay his ex-wife 50% of the 
net pensions payable thereunder  annually  The court order was issued  years  prior to the 
more recent  changes in legislation  that now allows a more  flexible approach  to pensions. 
I dont agree that the wording of the order (or of Prudentials letter) means that they were  
wrong to pay 50% of the ad-hoc withdrawals to Mrs L. As at the time of those payments, 
they were unaware  she had remarried. And I dont think their interpretation  of the court  order 
that 50% of the net pensions payable be paid to Mr Rs ex-wife  was unreasonable. 
Mr R also thinks  Prudential should  have  informed the court  when they became aware of the 
situation in relation to his ex-wife. I can see that Prudential wrote to Mrs Ls solicitors to 
inform them  that she had failed in her legal obligation to notify  them of the change. They  also 
let her know that no further payments  would  be made to her. This is in line with what  I would 
expect Prudential to do in these circumstances and I dont think they were  wrong  not to 
inform the court. 
Once Prudential  were aware of the change  in circumstances they made  no further payments 
to Mrs L. But I agree  they could have informed Mr R of this sooner and that they could have 
avoided half of his September 2018  payment being  delayed. Prudential  also acknowledged 
some failings in their contact with Mr R when  trying to resolve matters. 
Where a business has made a mistake we look to, as far as is possible, put the customer 
back in the position they would have been  in, had the mistake not happened.  Prudential  
have already paid Mr R around  £14 to reflect 8% simple interest on the amount he should 
have received in September 2018 that he didnt  receive until December 2018.  Im satisfied 
that financially, this puts Mr R back in the position  he wouldve been in, had the payment 
been made on time.
But I do agree  this has been  a distressing experience for Mr R. And whilst I acknowledge not 
all of the upset  this must have caused him can be attributed  to Prudential, I do think  they 
have caused Mr R some distress and inconvenience. Prudential have already offered and 
Ref: DRN15026643paid Mr R £500. This too is in line with what I would recommend  in these circumstances. 
Because of that I dont think it would be fair for me to direct  Prudential to increase this 
amount. 
I have considerable  sympathy for Mr R who hasnt received a large sum of money through  
no fault of his own. But I dont think Prudential are responsible or liable for this.  So there 
isnt any basis upon which I can fairly  ask them to reimburse Mr R. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1502664