K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out online 
alongside a credit card in 2009. Mrs B says Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Tesco had to make  Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before 
adding it to her card.  Mrs B has told us she was unaware the policy  had been added  to her 
card and doesnt recall  agreeing to have  it. Tesco has sent us a copy  of the screens it says 
Mrs B would have seen when she applied for her card and PPI. I have nothing  to doubt that 
the screens would  be those Mrs B saw when she applied for her card.
The online process  gave  Mrs B equal  options  to take the PPI or decline it. The credit  
agreement produced after the answers to these  questions  were given also clearly  shows an 
electronic tick has been placed in agreement with the PPI separately  to agreeing with the 
credit card. With this in mind I think Tesco made it clear that Mrs B didnt  have to take out 
the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not 
remember this.
Mrs B took out the credit card and PPI online without speaking to a Tesco representative,  so 
I dont think Tesco recommended the policy to her. This means Tesco  didnt have to check if 
it was right for Mrs B. But it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had to 
make her repayments which included sick pay and savings. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to, and for longer than Mrs Bs sick pay. It would also have allowed Mrs B to keep 
her savings in place which could be used towards any other  essential  expenses she may 
have had.
Mrs B has also told us about other insurances she held at the time and that she could have 
relied on her partner to help make her repayments.  But the PPI covered circumstances 
these policies wouldnt have, and while Mrs Bs partner would have wanted to help, support 
from others cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances  can change.  So these points 
dont change my decision.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN18204132Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
When the policy was sold,  Tesco expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs B about that. 
Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said  including what  she has told us about not 
being told about other policies that were  available from other providers at the time, and that 
she had not taken PPI with any other product. But Tesco were not obligated to provide 
details of policies  available  elsewhere, and although  Mrs B may not have taken PPI on 
another product I dont think this shows she didnt  want  it with her Tesco credit card. So 
these points dont  change my decision.
 
what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  done  so already Tesco has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mrs B any 
extra interest Mrs B paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs B the difference  between 
what she owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs B 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1820413