K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
1995. Mrs C says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs C says that it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was optional,  and that she was 
pressured in to taking it as it was implied  that she wouldnt get the loan if she didnt.  I wasnt  
there at the time, so I cant know what was said,  and Mrs C hasnt said much about why she 
felt this way either. So while Ive noted  that Mrs C says she felt pressured in to taking out 
PPI, pressure can be subjective and what feels like pressure  to one person may not to 
another, and Ive not seen  any supporting evidence that Mrs C was pressured into taking the 
PPI.
HSBC isnt able to provide a copy of Mrs Cs loan and PPI application  but this isnt unusual 
for a loan taken  out at this time, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
But it has provided information about its sales process at the time, and the kind of paperwork 
that was in use. This shows that the PPI wouldve  been presented as optional, and Mrs C 
wouldve had to confirm  that she wanted to take it out before it was applied  to a loan  and I 
havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC wouldve  done  anything differently when it sold 
the loan and PPI to Mrs C. So I think its likely that HSBC made it clear that Mrs C didnt  
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover, and while Mrs C has said she was entitled to generous sick 
pay, the policy couldve paid out on top of this. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs C.
Ref: DRN16655862Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1665586