K820x#14complaint
Ms H and Mrs H say Bank Of Scotland Plc BOS mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms H and Mrs H bought the policy in 2009 sometime after taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms H only for unemployment cover only subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. Ms H did not take out accident and sickness  cover despite what 
the adjudicator  said. It offered to repay £678.74  a month towards Ms H and Mrs Hs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £26.47 a month. 
At the time,  Ms H was employed as a clerical officer. She has told us she was entitled to 
more than 6 months  full sick pay provided  by her employer and she had some  savings she 
couldve used to repay their mortgage  should she be unable to work. Ms H said she suffered 
an injury before the time of the sale. 
Mrs H was employed as an orthopaedic coordinator. Mrs H had not been working for more 
than six months at the time of sale so would not have  been able to make a claim for 
unemployment cover   but Mrs H was not covered under the policy, so her circumstances 
are not important to my decision.
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in December 2004.  
Ms H and Mrs Hs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms H and Mrs Hs representative  says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms H and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms H and 
Mrs Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Ms H and Mrs H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms H and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN17368362The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms H and Mrs H received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms H and Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms H and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms H and Mrs Hs 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN17368363a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BOS was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Ms H and Mrs Hs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Ms H and Mrs H with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN17368364-Whether BOS gave Ms H and Mrs H sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms H 
and Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Ms H and Mrs 
H suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms H and Mrs H 
and BOS, Ive decided not to uphold Ms H and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Ms H and Mrs H know they had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Neither BOS nor Ms H and Mrs H have been able to provide copies of all the documentation  
from the time of sale  given how long ago this policy was sold,  I dont think thats  
unreasonable. But where I have limited information, I have to decide  what I think  is more 
likely based  on the available evidence. 
I understand Ms H and Mrs H took their mortgage  in 2004 at which  time they did not take 
PPI. They  bought unemployment  cover  for Ms H only in 2009  so I think its clear they didnt 
have to take PPI to get the mortgage.   
Ive seen a copy  of their mortgage product transfer offer document  which  explicitly  says they 
dont need to take any insurance other than buildings insurance. 
Ive also seen a thank you letter with an insurance schedule  attached  they received after the 
policy had been  set up. This set out the cost,  the benefit and the type of cover that had been 
set up  had they not agreed to take PPI to cover Ms H only, I wouldve expected them to 
raise this on receipt of this letter. 
I also have to bear in mind, that they didnt buy other elements of insurance that were 
offered to them such as cover for accident  and sickness, and life or critical illness.  So, it 
looks like they have  exercised a degree of consideration  and choice. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Ms H and Mrs H knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out to cover Ms H only without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
Ref: DRN17368365Ms H and Mrs H say there werent given advice about the PPI but BOS says it 
recommended the PPI.  Looking at what happened  when BOS  sold Ms H (as the policy  
holder and person covered under the policy) the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided advice. I 
say this because  I can see BOS prepared a demands and needs  statement following the 
meeting it had with Ms H and Mrs H. In it, BOS recommended Ms H take both disability 
(accident and sickness)  and the unemployment  cover. But it noted Ms H had only taken 
unemployment cover. 
This means  BOS had to advise Ms H with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BOS took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Ms H. The adviser had information  about  some of Ms H and Mrs Hs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Ms H had a need for the policy  by 
asking questions about her wider  circumstances such as what  other  insurance policies she 
had at the time  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I cant for 
example see it sought to establish what employee benefits Ms H might  have had in place at 
the time.   
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Ms H given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Ms H, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms H met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Ms H had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Ms Hs ability to continue to 
meet their mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the savings she says she 
had at the time. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms H. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms H. There was 
nothing about  Ms Hs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult 
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Ms H has told us about 
an injury she suffered prior to the sale of the policy. But she didnt take the disability 
element of the cover  so she wouldnt be affected  by any of the terms related to 
health conditions.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the requirement  
that Ms H be unemployed for 30 days before  she could make a claim and the fact the 
policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim), the 
policy still provided valuable cover given:
Ref: DRN17368366Ms Hs circumstances,  including her employers redundancy  provisions and 
her savings  (which she might expect to provide an income during the policys  
30-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  they be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Ms H and Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BOS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms H and Mrs H were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Ms H was unable to work through  unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms H and Mrs H would have taken out 
the policy without  any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might  
be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms H and Mrs H agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms H Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BOS  gave Ms H and Mrs H all of the information 
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out for Ms H.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms H and Mrs Hs representative  has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms H and 
Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms H and Mrs Hs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms H and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN17368367Im not persuaded by Ms H and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Ms H and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BOS ought to have done either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Ms H and Mrs H? To what extent  did Ms 
H and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Ms H and Mrs 
H. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms H 
and Mrs H suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Ms H and Mrs H would have still taken  out the policy to cover Ms H only,  had BOS done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Ms H, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms H and Mrs H have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if BOS  had explained  things 
properly, Ms H and Mrs H would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Ms H and Mrs H say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms H and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BOS advised  them that there  was a 
suitable product  Ms H could buy that would  protect their mortgage payments  in the event 
she was unable to work  because  of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product  but only one part of it  namely the unemployment  element.  But 
they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning  what they thought they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms H circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for Ms H.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms H and Mrs H knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BOS told them the exact premium at the point Ms 
H and Mrs H applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Ms H and Mrs H would 
have been told the approximate cost before  the policy started  and they received a welcome 
Ref: DRN17368368letter with the exact costs  sets out once the policy was set up - they also paid for the policy 
for a number of years. If the costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the 
point of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with BOS at the time or reconsidered 
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms H and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BOS  made  clear  exactly what Ms H and Mrs H would get back  
in return in the event Ms H made  a successful  claim.  But I think its unlikely Ms H and Mrs 
Hs expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually  paid more  in the 
event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms H and Mrs H thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
The requirement that self-employed people must have  permanently  ceased trading 
and/or be in the process of being wound  up to make an unemployment claim. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms H and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms H and Mrs H from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. Ms H was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Ms H 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she was in permanent 
employment and didnt take the disability element of the cover so wouldnt be affected for 
example by the term excluding claims caused by pre-existing medical conditions. So, I still 
think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ive also considered Ms H and Mrs Hs representatives concerns over the requirement that 
Ms H be unable to do any similar job to make  a disability claim and what  it has said about 
back pain and mental health  conditions  being common problems. But as Ive explained  
above, Ms H opted out of the recommended  disability cover,  so she wouldnt have been 
affected by these provisions. 
BOS may not have  told Ms H that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. But her 
sick pay entitlement wouldnt have helped if shed  become unemployed. And although she 
had a good amount of savings, it amounted to less than 12 months  income so the policy 
would pay out longer  than those savings wouldve lasted. Her statutory redundancy 
entitlement was also significantly  less than 12 months income. 
Ref: DRN17368369In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms H would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to them and would help them 
manage the consequences  should  Ms H be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce their 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home  was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Ms Hs savings or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms H and Mrs H would still have  taken out the policy to cover Ms H. The policy  was 
suitable for her, was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting  and 
provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences if Ms H was made 
redundant. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms H and Mrs H would 
have taken out the policy to cover Ms H in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Ms H and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms H and Mrs H would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms H and Mrs 
Hs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Ms H 
and Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Ms H and Mrs H believe  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms H and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Ms H and Mrs H compensation, as that would 
Ref: DRN173683610put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms H and Mrs H think BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of BOSs statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why BOS failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Ms H and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2009  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms H and Mrs Hs representative says a court might 
take if it were to find BOS  negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms H and Mrs H and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that BOS  had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Ms H and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2020.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1736836