K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the service provided by Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva). 
Hes unhappy with their explanations surrounding  his investment, and also with their failure 
to provide him with documents hes requested. 
background
Mr H telephoned Aviva in the summer  of last year. He called to ask why the value of his 
investment had dropped and he also wanted an explanation  of how his policy  was set up. 
Aviva werent able to explain  specifically why Mr Hs investment had dropped in value. At 
first they didnt know what he was comparing the amount to, but once they knew,  they were  
able to explain that his investment was linked to underlying investments meaning the price 
would fluctuate  depending on how they performed.  
Mr H asked Aviva for a copy of his policy schedule and Aviva  explained that if it had been 
lost, they wouldnt  send another one. They explained this wouldnt affect Mr H being  able to 
surrender his investment, however he may need  to complete some further paperwork at the 
time, if a payment is requested. 
Mr H asked for a copy of this paperwork,  but Aviva  said they werent able to send it as it may 
change by the time Mr H cashes in his investment  meaning he would be completing the 
forms unnecessarily. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Aviva hadnt  done anything wrong. He felt theyd 
given Mr H as much information as they could and that they were within their rights to not 
send him the paperwork hed requested. 
Mr H asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman, and so its been  passed to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ill address each point of Mr Hs complaint 
separately. 
the call with Aviva 
Mr H is unhappy with a call he had with Aviva earlier last year. He believed  Aviva used the 
wrong wording to explain how his policy was set up. 
Having listened  to the call, the advisor explained that even though  the letter  Mr H received 
said he had seven separate  policies,  what it meant  was that he had seven individual  
segments within  the one overall policy. 
Ref: DRN13408492She explained it was correct that Mr Hs policy is made up of seven separate  parts and that 
these can be described as either segments,  or policies. So I dont think the advisor was 
wrong in the explanation she gave, but I do agree this may have been confusing. 
During the call, the adviser  answered  Mr Hs questions  to the best of her ability, and when 
she wasnt able to answer a specific question for Mr H, she placed him on hold while she 
found out the answer, which I dont find unreasonable. Overall Im satisfied the adviser  
handled the call as best she could,  given the information she had. 
explanation of drop  in fund 
Mr H is unhappy with the explanation given by Aviva when he asked why his fund had 
dropped in value by 16% in one month. 
Aviva have explained that Mr Hs policy is unit linked, meaning  the value can fluctuate in line 
with any underlying market investments and their performance in the stock  market. 
As Aviva have no control  over the fluctuation  of the investments,  I dont believe they can give 
any further explanation on when or why the value may drop.
I did however feel that they could have given Mr H more information  around the performance  
of his funds and what had happened over the period of time in question. This has now been 
provided and Mr H has had the chance to review the information. 
Avivas response  to Mr Hs information request 
I can see that Aviva explained why they wouldnt be able to send Mr H a copy of his policy  
documents, and what the process  would  be should he want to cash in his investment in the 
future. I agree that it wouldnt make sense to send  the necessary forms now, as they may 
change over time. So Im unable to ask Aviva to do anything further here.  
While I feel Aviva couldve given Mr H some more information  around the performance  of his 
investment, overall  I think theyve acted correctly and tried to assist Mr H in any way they 
could. For this reason,  I wont be asking  them  to do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Ref: DRN13408493Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1340849