K822xcomplaint
Miss M1, as executor of the estate of a relative, whom Ill refer to as Miss M2, complains 
about the way The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) dealt with Miss M2s mortgage  
following her death.
background 
Miss M2 took out an interest  only mortgage  with TMW in 2010 to buy a property (the 
Property) as an investment to let out and provide an income. She borrowed £103,500, 
inclusive of an arrangement fee, over a term of ten years.
Miss M2 died in March  2017. Miss M1 was the executor appointed by Miss M2 in her will, 
and also the main beneficiary  of her estate, which included the Property. 
Miss M1 says she found out there was a balance  outstanding on the mortgage and 
contacted TMW to pay it off. She says she was told she had to wait until probate  had been 
granted until she could do that and that the account would be marked  as closed  until the 
paperwork could be completed.
Probate took some time. When Miss M1 went to check on the Property  in March 2018, she 
found the locks had been changed   TMW had appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) 
receivers (the Receivers) to take possession and take over management of the Property.
TMW explained to the solicitors handling  Ms Ls estate  that arrears  had built up on the 
mortgage as no interest  payments were being  made. And although it had waited  several 
months longer  than it would usually before appointing the Receivers, it had gone ahead  
eventually as no payments were  being made to the mortgage.
 
Miss M1 was unhappy TMW  hadnt contacted her about making payments towards the 
mortgage and asked TMW to stand the Receivers down. 
Probate was eventually granted in August 2018 and Miss M1 was able to pay off the balance  
owing on the mortgage in September 2018.  She was unhappy  with the interest that had 
accrued in the meantime, about  how the redemption payment was dealt with and with the 
redemption figures  shed been  given.
Miss M1 raised a number of other issues about TMW and the Receivers. Another 
ombudsman reviewed which of those issues this service can and cant consider. And they 
issued a decision in April 2020 that said we can consider the following complaint points and 
how they impacted  the estate:
The appointment by TMW of the LPA receivers
No payments being made to the mortgage
The redemption figure
The redemption payment being  refunded twice
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss M1s complaint  on its merits, so its been passed to me 
for a decision about that.
Ref: DRN15511552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ill explain, I agree with our investigators  view for broadly the same reasons.
Appointment of the LPA receivers and no payments being made to the mortgage
Under the terms and conditions  of the mortgage Miss M2 agreed to make the contractual 
monthly mortgage payments (CMP) and to be responsible for all the costs, fees and 
disbursements that arose  in connection with the mortgage. The obligation to make the CMP 
and responsibility  for any costs passed  to Miss M2s  estate on her death. 
Unfortunately, theres no record  of Miss M1s call to TMW when she says she was told she 
had to wait until probate  had been granted before  paying off the mortgage and that the 
account would be marked as closed until the paperwork  could be completed.  I can 
understand if that was what Miss M1 thought, she wouldnt have contacted  TMW again 
unless she felt there might be a problem - as she did when she found out the locks to the 
Property had been changed.
TMWs notes  suggest in around January and February 2018 TMW were  trying to find out 
what had happened  to Miss M2 suspecting that she might have passed away  based on what  
it had been told by tenants  who seem  to have been  living in the Property at the time. Its 
possible TMW told Miss M1 she didnt need  to worry about the mortgage since it was being 
paid until this point.  But, on balance I think its unlikely  TMW would have told her the 
mortgage didnt  need to be paid at all  that would  have  been unusual, and it isnt what  TMW  
said clearly in later correspondence with the solicitors administering the estate.  
TMW found out in February 2018 that Miss M2 had died when the solicitors wrote  to TMW 
saying they were dealing with the estate and asking  for a figure  for the amount outstanding  
on the mortgage. TMW replied making  clear the CMP needed  to be kept up and that arrears 
would accrue if they werent. 
TMW sent several letters addressed to Miss M2s  personal representatives,  which I 
presume didnt reach Miss M1. But at the same time, it was writing in similar terms and 
speaking to the solicitors,  so I dont think that matters. I think  TMW  could reasonably  expect 
the solicitors to pass on to Miss M1 any information  TMW provided.
TMW raised a number of questions with the solicitors in March about  whether the grant of 
probate had been received, whether  the CMP could be made and whether  any steps had 
been taken to market the Property.  Arrears  were building up as the mortgage payments 
werent being made.
In a letter dated 12 April 2018 TMW told the solicitors  that LPA receivers  would  be appointed 
within the next 15 days. And it explained  the process involved and the costs and interest 
would be added to the mortgage account.
The solicitors said there  would be money available to pay off the mortgage once the grant  of 
probate had come through, but there were delays with one of the businesses  involved. 
Ref: DRN15511553In May 2018  TMW gave  formal notice it would be appointing the Receivers.  It asked for 
updates in June by post and telephone. And TMW held off from appointing  Receivers  until 
July when it hadnt been given the update it had asked for.
I can appreciate Miss M1s frustration about what  happened. I understand her father  would 
have been able to clear  the mortgage sooner  and had offered to do so, although I havent 
seen any record of that. That would have avoided the build-up  of the arrears, additional 
interest and the costs  associated with the appointment of the Receivers.
But I dont think TMW behaved unreasonably.  It was regularly writing and speaking to the 
solicitors. It gave  them clear warning about the steps it intended  to take as no payments  
were being  made to the mortgage  and arrears were  building  up. 
By the time TMW took possession the arrears stood  at around ten months. There  was no 
certainty about when  the grant  of probate might come through. And it was over 12 months 
since Miss M2 had passed  away. So, I think it was reasonable for TMW  to appoint Receivers 
to manage the Property by that time.  Probate  was finally  granted in August 2018.  TMW  
agreed to dis-instruct the Receivers and Miss M1 was able to pay off the mortgage in 
September 2018.
 
In line with the terms of the mortgage,  TMW was able to add the costs associated  with 
appointing the Receivers to the mortgage. I dont think those costs  were unreasonable in 
amount in the circumstances.
Redemption figure and the redemption payment being refunded  twice
The mortgage Miss M2 took out originally  was for around £103,500 inclusive of fees. Since 
arrears had accrued,  they had to be paid as well as additional interest and the costs 
associated with the appointment of the LPA Receivers and redeeming the mortgage. 
TMW found an error in its calculation of the redemption figure.  It arranged  to refund around 
£362 to put this right and I think this was fair. 
I can understand Miss M1s frustration when the funds paid over to TMW  to redeem the 
mortgage were returned twice. TMW explained  this happened because  the mortgage  
reference wasnt included  when the payments were made. It acknowledged it had made a 
mistake in returning the money. 
As the ombudsman who considered jurisdiction explained, since Miss M1 brings  this 
complaint in her capacity  as executor, rather than in her personal capacity, although I can 
see TMW paid Miss M1 some  compensation, I cant consider the impact  TMWs actions had 
on her or make an award for that. And theres no evidence of any loss to the estate. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst  I understand the events have been frustrating for Miss M1, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss M1s  complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M1 to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
Ref: DRN15511554Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1551155