K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  an interest only mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out an interest only mortgage  with Lloyds in 2007  (at the time,  this was 
under the Cheltenham & Gloucester brand   but for ease Ill refer to Lloyds throughout).  
Mr and Mrs C borrowed £197,000 over a 15-year term. They  refinanced their existing 
interest only mortgage (£147,000)  and consolidated  some other  debts. They took out a 
further advance  of £54,000  around  18 months  later,  which was on a repayment basis over a 
13-year term.
In late 2018, Mr and Mrs C complained to Lloyds about the sale of the interest  only 
mortgage. They said theyd now both retired and so no longer had a way of making the 
monthly mortgage payments. And they said they had no means of paying back  the capital 
balance either. They  thought Lloyds  had been  irresponsible in granting the mortgage, 
without making appropriate  checks on how theyd be able to pay back  what  theyd borrowed.
Lloyds said the complaint  had been  raised outside  of the relevant  time limits, so it was 
unable to consider  Mr and Mrs Cs concerns. But it also said the mortgage  had been set up 
in line with Mr and Mrs Cs wishes  and that theyd been given sufficient information to 
query things  if it hadnt been. 
Mr and Mrs C referred  their complaint  to us. Our investigator didnt agree that it had been 
raised out of time so he proceeded to look into things. He said that while  records from the 
original sale of the mortgage were  limited, notes made during the further advance application 
said Mr and Mrs C would  sell the property to repay  the interest only mortgage.  He didnt 
think that was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs C in light of their circumstances at the time, 
particularly as a repayment mortgage wouldnt have been affordable for them. And while 
Mr C had retired before the term was due to end, he didnt think  that would necessarily have 
been envisaged at the time. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators  view. They  said theyd never told Lloyds that 
they intended to sell their home to repay the mortgage and thered been no discussion of a 
repayment plan at all. They pointed to the 2007 mortgage offer, which said the repayment 
method was unknown  and that Lloyds had subsequently recommended  the further 
borrowing on repayment terms. So they asked that an ombudsman  review their complaint 
and it was passed to me to decide.
While the complaint has been ongoing,  Mr and Mrs C have sold the property and moved  into 
rented accommodation.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month,  setting out why I didnt  think  Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint should  be upheld.  I said:
Both the original mortgage in 2007 and the further  advance in 2008  were taken out on 
a non-advised  basis, as indicated in the mortgage offers for each. So Lloyds didnt 
recommend the interest only mortgage  (or the further advance on repayment terms) to 
Ref: DRN15550232Mr and Mrs C  and wasnt responsible for ensuring the borrowing was suitable for 
their needs.
Lloyds was still obliged  to ensure that it lent responsibly  having taken appropriate 
account of Mr and Mrs Cs ability to repay  the sums  due under the mortgage it 
provided. And this would cover the affordability  of both the monthly payments and the 
capital balance that would need to be repaid at the end of the term. While there seems 
to be no question that Mr and Mrs C could afford to service the mortgage on a monthly 
basis at the time they took it out, they say no account was taken as to how theyd 
afford it once  Mr C retired  or indeed  how theyd pay back  the capital when the time 
came.
Looking at the 2007 application, I think Mr and Mrs C may have some  legitimate 
concerns here. At the time, they said they both planned  to retire at the age of 65 (so, 
2015 and 2018 respectively). The mortgage term was scheduled to run until 2022.  I 
cant see that Lloyds  appropriately considered how Mr and Mrs C might afford the 
mortgage once  Mr C  the main  wage earner at the time  reached retirement age (by, 
for example, taking  details of his pension  income). And the same can be said of the 
2008 application. There does appear  to have been at least  some discussion  in that 
internal underwriting notes completed  by the adviser  recorded  that Mr C can work  as 
long as poss due to being self-employed. But that doesnt appear to give any degree 
of assurance as to the ongoing affordability of the mortgage  not least as theres no 
certainty as to how long as long as possible  might actually turn out to be.
In a similar way, there  is little documentary evidence to show  Lloyds gave  much  
consideration to how Mr and Mrs C would repay the capital balance  when the 
mortgage term came to an end. The 2007 application form states the type of 
investment plan intended to use to repay the interest only mortgage as None. This is 
echoed in the mortgage offer, which says of the capital balance,  You have told that it 
is unknown how you will repay this sum. There does, though,  appear  to again have 
been more discussion  and consideration of this during  the 2008 application: the 
underwriting notes saying  in this respect  that custs intend to sell property + 
downsize.  Ive noted, though, that Mr and Mrs C dispute that was based  on anything  
they said  they dont  recall any conversation about the repayment method, or the 
possibility of them selling the property, at all.
Taking all of the above into account, and while records from the sales of the mortgage  
and further advance in 2007  and 2008 are understandably  somewhat limited now,  I 
think its highly likely  that Lloyds failed to give appropriate consideration as to Mr and 
Mrs Cs ability to repay the mortgage  both once they retired  and when  it came  to an 
end. But in order to uphold the complaint  and to award Mr and Mrs C any 
compensation  Id need to see that things wouldve ended up differently  but for 
anything Lloyds did wrong. And in that respect  based on what  Ive seen so far  I 
dont think they would. Ill explain why.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs C wouldve been able to afford the mortgage on a 
repayment basis over a term that would finish in time for Mr Cs retirement. That 
wouldve meant monthly payments in the region of £2,600 from 2007 onwards (rising 
to over £3,100  when  factoring in the further borrowing taken in 2008).  Such  a 
commitment wouldnt have left them sufficient funds to cover  reasonable living  
expenses. 
Ref: DRN15550233So I think Mr and Mrs C would always have needed  to borrow  on interest  only terms. It 
wasnt inappropriate for Lloyds to have lent on that basis, given the rules that applied 
at the time. Had Lloyds  done more to ascertain  how Mr and Mrs C could afford to 
repay the interest only mortgage at the end of the term, I think  it would legitimately 
have been satisfied that the sale of the property was a reasonable plan. Given the size 
of the property (a house with four bedrooms  and four reception rooms) and the amount 
of equity Mr and Mrs C had in it (around £182,000, given the valuation of £380,000), I 
think selling  and downsizing in their retirement represented a realistic  and viable  
strategy. 
Ive also noted  that the documentation Lloyds provided Mr and Mrs C at the time gave 
them appropriate information about the key terms of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs C say it 
didnt sufficiently outline the risks  but I dont agree with that. The original mortgage 
offer issued in 2007  in the format prescribed by the regulator at the time  clearly set 
out that the loan would be on an interest only basis. And it explained what that meant 
for Mr and Mrs C:
The monthly payment  shown above  only covers  interest. You will still 
owe £197,829  at the end of the repayment term. You have told us 
that it is unknown  how you will repay this sum. It is your responsibility 
to ensure that you can repay this sum at the end of the mortgage 
term and therefore  suitable arrangements should  be put in place.
This information  and the need  for Mr and Mrs C to have a repayment plan in place  
was reiterated  in the 2008 offer. Similarly, the length  of the mortgage term was clearly  
specified in both offers. And ultimately,  both the type and term of the mortgage were 
provided at Mr and Mrs Cs request   as is shown in the application  form from the time. 
So Mr and Mrs C were made aware  of the terms on which Lloyds  was willing  to lend, 
and what that meant  for them  and they went ahead. 
Notably also, Mr and Mrs C already owned the property  they were  remortgaging   this 
wasnt a prospective purchase  that they could  pull out of  and already had an interest 
only mortgage. So but for the comparatively small additional amount they borrowed  
to refinance other borrowing  the Lloyds mortgage  wasnt a significant  change to the 
position they were  already in.
So looking  at everything, I think Mr and Mrs C were always going to be in the position 
they found themselves in when Mr C retired: needing to sell the property  to redeem the 
mortgage. So I dont  think theyre any worse off than they otherwise wouldve been, 
even if Lloyds didnt  do enough to verify their circumstances and intentions at the 
outset. And as theyve  not suffered a financial loss, Im not intending to direct Lloyds to 
pay them  any compensation.
In response, Mr and Mrs C said they were responsible borrowers and that other options  
such as a part repayment, part interest  only mortgage ought to have been discussed. But 
instead the bank had only been  interested in selling them an interest only mortgage, with no 
checks and no advice.
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN15550234my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr and Mrs Cs further 
submission. But their further  comments havent  led me to reach  a different conclusion.
I dont doubt what  Mr and Mrs C have  said about  being financially responsible.  And it may 
well be the case that had Lloyds proactively proposed a different  mortgage to them, theyd 
have taken it. But as I set out in my provisional decision, Lloyds wasnt advising Mr and 
Mrs C on what  type of mortgage was best for them. The application was completed on a 
non-advised basis  so no advice  was given, and other options  werent  explored.  Lloyds 
didnt do anything wrong in that respect,  and the mortgage wasnt  so clearly inappropriate 
that it ought to have  dissuaded Mr and Mrs C from proceeding.
Rather, Lloyds had to provide Mr and Mrs C with appropriate information  to enable them to 
make an informed decision about whether the mortgage met their needs. And as I explained 
in my provisional decision,  I think that information was clear. It was up to Mr and Mrs C to 
decide  in the knowledge that theyd  still owe the whole mortgage  balance at the end of the 
term  if this mortgage was right for them. They decided it was.
While Ive agreed that Lloyds probably  shouldve done more  in checking on Mr and Mrs Cs 
repayment strategy,  I still dont think this wouldve led to a different outcome. I accept what  
Mr and Mrs C have said  that things could have been different. But I have to decide  the 
complaint on what is most likely to have  happened. As I set out in my provisional decision, 
the sale of the property  wouldve been  an acceptable repayment strategy at the time. So 
Lloyds would still have  granted it (and it wouldnt have been wrong to do so). And I dont 
think a question about their plans wouldve put Mr and Mrs C off the interest  only mortgage. 
Thats what  they initially chose. It represented a continuation of their existing arrangement, 
fitted their budget  and they had an acceptable  repayment method in the sale of the property  
and the level of equity they had. And importantly, they were  given clear information about 
how the interest only mortgage  worked   setting  out that theyd need to repay  the capital 
balance when the term ended  and they chose to proceed. So I think thats what  is most  
likely to have happened, even if Lloyds  had done more to check  on their plans at the outset.
So while Im naturally sympathetic to the evidently  stressful situation that Mr and Mrs C 
found themselves  in towards the end of the term, I dont think  this is something that Lloyds is 
responsible for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1555023