K820x#14complaint 
Mr L and Mrs H say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  For simplicity Ill refer to the business as Nationwide for the majority 
of the rest of this decision.
background 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Nationwide  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 24 November 2020, a copy  of 
which is attached  to, and forms part of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr L and Mrs Hs complaint about the miss-sale 
of the PPI. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 24 December 2020.  Nationwide has said that it received the 
provisional decision and that it has nothing else to add. Mr L and Mrs H were written  to with 
the provisional decision via their representatives.  At the time of writing I have not received 
any further submissions from them. I consider that sufficient time has been given for a 
response had Mr L and Mrs H wished to make  one. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr L and Mrs Hs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Mr L and Mrs H bought the policy in 1996 sometime after taking out a mortgage. Mr L and 
Mrs H recall taking  the PPI policy in branch. The policy provided cover  for Mr L alone. 
Consequently, I have considered all the submissions made in this case  but have paid 
particular attention to Mr Ls circumstances in this decision. 
The policy provided  cover  solely for Mr L for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £250 a month  towards Mr L and 
Mrs Hs mortgage balance plus an additional cover of £50 in the event of a successful claim.  
Nationwide told us the cost was £16.77 a month.  
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as an engineer manager. He has told us he was entitled to 
some sick pay that would have lasted for 12 months  and Mrs H told Nationwide that was six 
months at Mr Ls full rate of pay and six months  at his half pay rate. Mr L and Mrs H told us 
they had no other means of repaying their mortgage  should Mr L be unable  to work. But Mr L 
told us he would have  been entitled  to some redundancy pay in that event. Mr L and Mrs H 
told us that Mr L had two medical conditions a number of years before the sale. Ill come  
back to this matter later on in this decision.  Apart from those conditions Mr L and Mrs H told 
us Mr L was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
Ref: DRN18207052Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 1998. 
Mr L and Mrs Hs representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr L and Mrs Hs representative  says:
 
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr L and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr L and Mrs 
Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr L and Mrs H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr L and Mrs 
H and the impact they would  have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr L and Mrs H received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr L and Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr L and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set 
Ref: DRN18207053that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr L and Mrs Hs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr L and Mrs Hs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr L and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ref: DRN18207054key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr L and Mrs H with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr L and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr L and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and Mrs H 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr L and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr L and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has not been able to provide  any documents completed at the time of the sale. 
Thats not surprising  considering the time that has passed since  the sale; it happened over 
22 years  ago. I have thought about  that Nationwide told us the mortgage  started  in 1983 
some 13 years before the sale. And in the intervening years Mr L and Mrs H took out further 
advances in 1988 and 1993. On none of those occasions did Mr L and Mrs H choose  to take 
out any PPI. So, its possible that they knew this was something they could say no to, as it 
seems more likely  they had done that in their past dealings with Nationwide. And at the time 
of the sale it seems that Mr L and Mrs H were putting their borrowing onto a new fixed rate. 
So, Ive thought about the fact they had the credit they wanted  already in place, and for a 
number of years. 
So whilst Ive got no evidence of how the PPI was put to Mr L and Mrs H at the time of the 
sale, in the absence of any detailed testimony from Mr L and Mrs H to the contrary,  and 
considering how long ago the sale was in this case and that memories  can diminish a little in 
clarity over time, Ive seen no evidence to support  the notion that Mr L and Mrs H did not 
know they had taken the cover, or that they did so thinking they had to take the cover to 
keep credit they already had. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr L and Mrs H knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN18207055did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide say that they sold the PPI without any formal recommendation. Mr L and Mrs H 
dont recall much of the sale at all. So, in the absence of any detailed testimony from Mr L 
and Mrs H to the contrary, I have  assessed  the complaint as if advice wasnt  provided during 
this sale. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr L and Mrs H. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr L and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr L 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr L and Mrs H would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr L and Mrs H agreed  to take out the policy. 
So, I dont think Nationwide gave Mr L and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr L and Mrs Hs representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr L and 
Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr L and Mrs Hs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr L and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
Ref: DRN18207056court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr L and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr L and Mrs H? To what extent 
did Mr L and Mrs H suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr L 
and Mrs H. So, Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
L and Mrs H would have  still taken out the policy, had Nationwide  done things properly. 
Mr L and Mrs H say they would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L and Mrs H had to weigh  up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr L being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr L and Mrs H chose to take this policy  out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what  Mr L and 
Mrs H thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr L and Mrs H have suffered any 
loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr L and Mrs H knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Nationwide  told them the exact premium at the 
point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr L and Mrs H would have  
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Nationwide at the time,  or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr L and Mrs H would have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Nationwide  made  clear exactly  what Mr L and Mrs H would 
get back in return  in the event Mr L made  a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr L and 
Mrs Hs expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, its more likely than not the policy actually paid more in the event of 
a claim than they would  have  expected  as there  was an additional cash payment. 
 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L and Mrs H thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN18207057The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr L 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy, or that 
Mr L suffered from in the 12 months  immediately before  the cover commenced;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee for the 6 months  prior to a claim;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months for unemployment and disability, 
rather than the remaining  term of the mortgage.   
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr L be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and/or exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr L and Mrs H pause for thought   and may well have caused  them  to conclude  
that the policy wasnt as good as they thought  and they might  have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L and Mrs H 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr L and Mrs Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr L was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. It would  have paid in addition  to whatever sick pay 
Mr L may have been entitled to and probably for longer than Mr Ls employer would have 
paid him at his full rate of pay. And it would have met the new mortgage payment if he lost 
his job. And as he was the main earner, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out.
Mr L was employed at the time of the sale and so wouldnt have been caught by any 
significant exclusions that pertain to people with different  employment  status.  And although 
Mr L says he had some medical conditions  years before the PPI was taken out and the 
policy may not have  provided cover had he needed time off work because of those  
conditions, I dont think better information about this exclusion would have put them off 
agreeing to it. Ill explain why I say this. 
Mr L told us he had a condition that he called  cancer in his early testimony to us. He then 
went on to explain that the condition was to do with a growing tongue, and gave us the 
medical name for it, which I understand to be something that is not necessarily  anything  to 
do with cancer. It seems that Mr L and Mrs H told the business  the condition  was a tongue  
condition and not cancer, that it was treated at the time with an operation that cost him some 
time off work. But that it was a one-off  and never  caused him any problems after the 
operation. 
This is contradictory to what  we were told about the condition by Mr L and Mrs H. So, to 
bring some clarity to this issue, over 18 months ago we asked Mr L and Mrs H for some 
further information about this. At the time of writing we have not received  a response.  So, I 
will proceed on the assumption it wasnt cancer,  and the throat condition was treated at the 
time and caused  no further problems, as fits some  of the testimony Mr L and Mrs H gave us 
and Nationwide. Due to the contradictory testimony already provided, if Mr L and Mrs H wish 
to provide new testimony at this time, Id be grateful if they would provide some  documentary 
evidence to support  whatever further  submission they might  wish me to look at, if any.
Ref: DRN18207058So, the tongue condition  appears to have been treated with an operation in 1992 and 
caused no further trouble to Mr L in the years before the sale. 
Mr L told us of that he also received treatment for gastroenteritis  in 1993, which cost him 
some time off work at that time.  But Mr L and Mrs H have not provided any further  detailed  
testimony about the condition and no testimony that either of the conditions they told us 
about cost Mr L so much as a single day off work in the intervening years.  
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr L wouldve been  caught by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr L and Mrs H 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr L and Mrs H had known  Mr L could  only claim for disability if he was not only unable to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr Ls 
circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking out the 
cover.
Nationwide may not have  told Mr L and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited  to 
a 12-month period. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped 
for - but 12 months was a longer period than Mr L would  have received full sick pay for most 
likely and his statutory  redundancy  entitlement would most likely also have  been  significantly 
less than 12 months income. And in any event  the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any existing employment  benefits Mr L may have expected to receive.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr L and Mrs H would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr L be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Ls sick pay or redundancy money  for 
other use.
So, having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not Mr L and Mrs H would  still have taken out the policy.  The policy  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and provided benefits  that 
would help them manage the consequences  if Mr L was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr L 
and Mrs H would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr L and Mrs Hs representatives  say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN18207059That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr L and Mrs H would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr L and Mrs 
Hs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr L 
and Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr L and Mrs H believe the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr L and Mrs H compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr L and Mrs H think Nationwide  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of Nationwides  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr L and 
Mrs H, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1996  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr L and Mrs Hs representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find Nationwide negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr L and Mrs H 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Nationwide  had been in 
breach of its duty of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what  I 
think is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set 
out I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr L and Mrs H in a better position 
than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN182070510my provisional decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, my provisional decision is that I am minded not to uphold  Mr L and Mrs Hs 
complaint and I intend to make no award against  Nationwide Building Society.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mr L and 
Mrs Hs complaint and I make no award against  Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L and Mrs H 
either to accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing, before 11 February 2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1820705