K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company Harvey & 
Thompson Limited, trading at the time as H&T Pawnbrokers . Mr S says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to H&T.
background
We now know that Mr S took out 4 instalment loans from H&T between  October  2016  and 
March 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Ss borrowing with H&T, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
from the point of loan 2 onwards. H&T didnt  reply so the complaint has therefore  come to 
me for an ombudsmans  final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about short-term  lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.  Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr Ss complaint.
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr S could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable  manner.  These checks  ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
H&T should have  fairly  and reasonably  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, H&T was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  the loans; not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN11873712Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr S could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
In my view H&T has dealt  with Mr Ss situation very poorly. It implied it carried  out certain 
affordability and credit  checks before agreeing to lend to Mr S. Ive thought about this and 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of lending history with a view to seeing  if there  was a 
point at which H&T should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some point, H&T should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Bearing in mind what Ive said above  about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which H&T most likely carried out appear to have been proportionate  only for loan 
number 1. I think the level of checks, together with the income  and expenditure details 
provided by Mr S himself,  could have made this particular loan appear  affordable  for him. 
I take into account that the loan was for a relatively  moderate amount and spread out over a 
126 day repayment  period. This meant the amount Mr S needed to pay each time did appear  
to be within  his capacity  to pay, even  though  his declared income was quite low.
I think that by loan 2 however, H&T ought to have carried out more comprehensive checks  
and indeed thought about Mr Ss low income level. Theres no evidence  it did this, but if it 
had, I think it would have  been obvious  he was in a vulnerable financial position. 
I note, for example, the repayment term for loan 2 was substantially increased,  to 290 days, 
and although this would have spread the costs out over a longer  period, the very high 
interest charges  added on by H&T meant  that he was significantly indebted - and paying a 
lot of money for a small loan - over an extended  time period.  I also think that even the basic  
checks H&T probably carried  out at this point would have showed  him being a user of short-
term lending and other types  of high cost credit. In short, any reasonable assessment of 
Mr Ss situation would have shown lending  to him further was risky and harmful.
Loans 3 and 4 were  similarly harmful and both involved even longer repayment  terms. Once  
again these loans involved very high levels of interest and charges. Loan 3, for example, 
required Mr S to pay back more than twice what hed originally borrowed and loan 4 required 
three times as much. At the times  the loans were considered  by H&T, its own checks  
showed he was indebted to others and in a financially vulnerable  situation.  Our adjudicator  
pointed all this out and got no reply  from H&T.
At the point of loan 4, there was an additional and clear pattern of repeated lending evident  
in my view.  By then, there was an obvious  dependency on high-interest,  short-term lending 
evidenced by this, his fourth loan in around a year-and-a-half. 
So Im also upholding  Mr Ss complaint in respect of loan 4 as well. H&T repeatedly lent to 
Mr S in an unsustainable manner because:
 
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term use, over an extended  time period; and
Ref: DRN11873713the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to have  had negative  
implications on his ability  to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the market  for 
these high-cost loans.
putting things right  what H&T needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr S paid on loans 2, 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges on these from 
the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding  on loan 4 and treat any payments 
Mr S made towards these loans as payments towards  the capital;
if reworking Mr Ss loan 4 account  as Ive directed  results  in him effectively having  made 
payments above the original capital borrowed,  then H&T should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest  calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments  would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
if reworking Mr Ss loan 4 account  leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then H&T can 
use the total refund for the other upheld loans to offset  this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would  remind  H&T that it should  take a sympathetic view 
when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment  plan with Mr S for the remaining capital.
remove any negative  information about  loans 2 and 3 from Mr Ss credit file;
loan 4 means any information recorded  about  it is adverse. So all entries about loans 4 
should be completely removed  from Mr Ss credit file.
if H&T sold any of the debt it should  attempt to buy it back or otherwise ensure the 
above is complied  with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest.  H&T must  give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold Mr Ss complaint in respect of loans 2, 3 and 4. I direct  
Harvey & Thompson Limited to put things right for Mr S as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Ref: DRN11873714Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount Interest
1 14/10/2016 17/02/2017 £200 £103
2 28/02/2017 04/11/2017 £260 £199
3 03/11/2017 30/03/2018 £338 £477
4 30/03/2018 outstanding £439 £908
Ref: DRN1187371