K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Miss R bought the policy in 2006  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  It protected  
her monthly credit card repayments if she couldnt  work as a result of accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Miss R mainly says that she had sufficient means not to need  PPI. She also said that if the 
costs and benefits had been  explained,  and shed  known it was optional,  then she wouldve 
declined the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Rs complaint.
Miss R arranged her credit card and the PPI during  a meeting at the bank. It looks like 
Bank of Scotland advised her to take out the PPI although I dont know exactly  what  was 
discussed. But on the application form Miss R completed to get her credit  card theres a tick 
in the box to have PPI added to the account. She signed this part of the form indicating that 
she wanted to purchase  the PPI. And she also signed the completed form next to where it 
says: Sign it only if you want to be legally  bound by its terms. 
So, based  on all the information Ive seen,  I think Miss R wouldve seen that it was up to her 
to say if having PPI was something she wanted  and she chose to take it out. 
As Bank of Scotland recommended  the PPI to Miss R it not only had to give her important 
policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable  steps  to make sure the cover  
it recommended was suitable  for Miss R. 
Ive taken into account that Miss Rs employer wouldve paid her 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months  per 
accident and sickness claim. So the PPI provided  better protection  than she couldve relied 
on getting through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Miss R 
with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind  that she mightve had 
some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled  and she wouldve only been on half 
pay after being off work sick for 6 months. 
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Miss R lost her job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed.
Ref: DRN16488952Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Miss R if she was off work  sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances. 
So I think the PPI couldve been  useful and it was suitable for Miss R. 
Its possible some of the information  Bank  of Scotland gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  The policy didnt cover  some things. But it doesnt  look as if that 
wouldve affected Miss R. So, I dont think having  more information about the policy  
exclusions and limitations wouldve  made  any difference to Miss Rs decision to take out 
PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Miss R when she bought  the policy. But from 
what Ive seen, the monthly premiums seem to have been affordable for her when she took 
the policy out. Miss R paid for the PPI each month so she couldve cancelled  the policy  at 
any time without losing out financially  if her circumstances changed or she no longer  wanted 
to pay to keep  it running. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Miss R still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as PPI 
gave her useful protection in her particular  situation.  I dont think better  information  wouldve 
stopped her buying it.
This means  Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss R.
But Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss R because:  
Bank of Scotland plc got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss R about that. Because Bank  of 
Scotland plc didnt  tell Miss R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland plc has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN16488953my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss R any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1648895