K821x#15Complaint
Mr R says J&S Accessories  Ltd mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
J&S sold Mr R a single premium PPI policy with a loan in 2005. Mr R applied for the PPI, 
which it recommended  to him, at a meeting.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. J&S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Rs case. 
Ive decided to uphold the complaint because J&S recommended  the policy to Mr R but I 
dont think it was right for him. Ill explain why. 
The loan and policy ran for 60 months.  The policy could,  among other  things, have paid up 
to 12 monthly benefit payments per unemployment claim. That was also the maximum 
number of benefit payments that could  be paid for unemployment claims in total. 
Ive looked at the cost of the policy, including interest, together  with the benefits  it offered. 
And I can see Mr R would have needed to claim  more  than 10 months unemployment 
benefits to cover the total cost of the PPI. As I say, the maximum number of months  he could 
have claimed for unemployment under the policy terms was 12. 
Because of that, I dont think the policy provided  Mr R with good  value for money.  So I dont 
think it was right for him. 
Ive taken into account J&S comments, including what it said about Mr R being  made  aware 
of what he was buying. And I realise  the PPI covered, for example, disability as well as 
unemployment. But I still think the above is reason enough for me to uphold  the complaint.
Putting things  right
Mr R borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should  have  been  and 
he paid more than he should have each  month. So Mr R needs to get back the extra  hes 
paid. 
So, J&S should:
Work  out and pay Mr R the difference between  what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would have  paid each  month  without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr R paid each month from when  he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
Ref: DRN15551282If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, J&S can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires J&S to take off tax from this interest.  J&S must give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require J&S Accessories Ltd 
to put things right for Mr R as explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1555128