K820x#14complaint
Mr G complained to Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited  that he was mis-sold an income  
replacement plan (IRP).
background
In 1989 Mr G was advised  to take out an IRP which would provide a specific  monthly amount 
if he was unable to work  as a result of an accident or ill-health. The benefit would become 
payable four weeks after the sickness or accident  occurred  and consisted of an agreed 
monthly benefit (provided this did not exceed 75% of Mr Gs gross annual income) and could 
be paid up to age 60. The plan also afforded an indexation option which  meant the premium 
and benefit would increase each year in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI).
Mr G complained to Phoenix Life about  the sale of the IRP last year. He said it wasnt  
suitable for him because he was self-employed, which means the plan premium  and benefit  
shouldnt have been linked to the RPI.
Phoenix Life said, given  his circumstances in 1989, Mr G had a need for income protection 
and the plan was suitable overall. But it didnt think the premium and benefit shouldve been  
linked to the RPI because it had no evidence which suggested Mr Gs income had increased 
or would increase in the future. It also confirmed that the increases shouldnt,  in any event, 
have continued  after Mr Gs 55th birthday. Phoenix Life refunded  all the premiums Mr G had 
paid over and above  what the plan wouldve cost if the indexation  option  had been declined. 
And it added interest calculated at 8% simple  per year to this figure.  Phoenix  Life also paid 
Mr G £100 compensation  in recognition  of, and by way of an apology for, the delays hed 
experienced while his complaint was being  investigated.
Mr G seems to have  accepted the offer of £100  compensation  for the complaint-handling 
delays. But he thought he should  receive a refund of all the premiums hed paid because he 
didnt think the plan was available without  the RPI indexation. And he asked us to look at his 
complaint. But our investigator thought  Mr G had a need for the plan and felt Phoenix Lifes  
offer was fair and had been calculated appropriately.  
Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, like the investigator,  I 
dont think the plan was entirely unsuitable for Mr G so Phoenix Life doesnt needs to refund 
all the premiums hes paid. Ill explain why.
The paperwork completed in 1989  indicates  Mr G was self-employed, married and had a 
mortgage. But he had no savings or any other protection  policies in place. So if hed been 
unable to work thought accident or ill-health it seems likely hed have struggled to cover his 
everyday expenditure. With this in mind,  I dont think it was wrong to recommend he take out 
an income protection plan with a four-week  deferred  period,  that would run until his 60th 
birthday and afford a monthly  benefit which seems to have mirrored his average earnings at 
the time,  if a successful  claim was made. And Ive seen nothing  which  indicates the fact he 
was self-employed  wouldve affected his ability to claim on the plan.
Ref: DRN12889992Phoenix Life has already  accepted that Mr G didnt  need the RPI indexation option  in effect 
he was over-insured.  Mr G thinks this alone made the plan entirely unsuitable and so he 
should receive a full refund of premiums. But I disagree. There  wasnt,  as Mr G points out, 
an option to take a plan without the indexation.  But he was able to opt out of any annual 
increases. This is confirmed in the plan terms and conditions and the plan booklet also talks 
about the possibility of declining  the RPI increases. It says Should you decline two 
successive increase offers, then the right to further  automatic indexation  of benefits will be 
lost. So Mr G couldve  taken the plan and kept the benefit the same  throughout its life 
In July 2018 Phoenix Life calculated how much extra Mr G had paid for the plan due to the 
indexation increases and added interest to this figure. Ive seen nothing which  suggests  that 
calculation wasnt carried out correctly. And, despite  what Mr G said,  I accept Phoenix Lifes 
assertion that the plan fee would have increased with RPI even if the premium  and benefits 
indexation increases had been refused. The plan booklet confirms the plan fee is RPI-linked  
and, in my experience, thats not unusual because insurers costs  can increase as time 
passes.
I agree  with Mr G that the indexation  increases shouldve stopped  at his 55th birthday, in 
2014. Its not clear  why that didnt happen but Phoenix Life has confirmed it will look into this, 
presumably in case other customers have been  similarly affected. And I dont think Phoenix  
Life needs to do anything further in relation  to this point in respect of Mr Gs complaint 
because its already refunded the overpayments.
Its my understanding that Mr G continued  paying  his monthly premiums up until his 60th 
birthday in April 2019  when  the plan reached  the end of its term. Regrettably Phoenix Life 
didnt reduce the premium after it calculated Mr Gs refund. But it has confirmed that, once 
this decision is issued,  it will refund the overpayments  from July 2018 until the plan ended. 
And interest  calculated at 8% simple per year should also be added to that refund by way of 
compensation for Mr G not having had use of that money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1288999