K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc returned a direct debit when his account 
had sufficient funds  to pay it.
background
Mr H is unhappy that NatWest kept returning  his direct debit unpaid.  Every time it was 
returned, Mr H was charged by NatWest  and by the finance provider. The finance provider 
also reported missed  payments on Mr Hs credit  file which prevented  him from obtaining a 
mortgage.
Mr H says NatWest  made an error  in returning  the direct debits unpaid.  He says he paid in 
enough money before 2.30pm on the day the direct debit was due to be paid so there  were  
sufficient funds in his account.
NatWest says on each  occasion the direct debit was returned unpaid it was because Mr Hs 
available balance wasnt  sufficient  to pay the direct  debit.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Mr H didnt have sufficient available  
funds in his account on the occasions  when the direct debit was returned unpaid.
Mr H didnt agree. He said there were no pending transactions  shown on his mobile banking 
app on the dates when the direct debit was returned  unpaid, and that he had paid in enough 
money to cover the direct debit. Mr H said NatWest had made  changes  to the mobile 
banking app since so that pending  transactions could be seen,  which he felt demonstrated  
that the bank hadnt been  providing the correct  information  previously.  Mr H said the 
information shown  on the mobile banking app was unclear and misleading.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Hs account statements for each  of the 4 occasions when the direct debit 
was returned unpaid. On each occasion,  I can see that there were pending transactions. In 
each case, and although Mr H transferred funds into the account, the pending transactions 
meant that the available  balance in the account  was insufficient to pay the direct debit. 
Because of this, Im unable to say the bank made  an error in returning the direct debit 
unpaid.
Ive taken into account the comments made by Mr H about the information available to him 
on the mobile banking app. Whilst its fair to say that the mobile  banking  app didnt show 
pending transactions at the time, and whilst its acknowledged that the bank have recently 
introduced changes to the app so it shows pending  transactions, I still think the information  
available to Mr H at the time was sufficient for him to be able to work  out how much he 
needed to transfer into the account  to make sure he had sufficient funds to pay the direct  
debit. This is because the mobile banking app shows both the available balance and the 
statement balance. The available balance takes  account of pending transactions which 
havent yet been debited.
Ref: DRN16873252It seems  that there was some confusion between the statement balance and the available 
balance, which are two different  things. Its the available balance which should be used to 
work out whether there are enough funds  to pay a direct debit.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im unable to say that NatWest  
has made a error. Because of this, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1687325