K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has not recovered the funds  he lost to a 
scammer.
background
On 19 October 2018, Mr K made  a payment  via mobile banking of £600 to a scammer for 
what he thought  was a mobile phone.  He contacted  Barclays on 23 October when he didnt 
receive the mobile phone  and was no longer able to contact  the scammer. 
Barclays contacted  the beneficiary bank on 23 October to try and recover Mr Ks funds. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to advise no funds remained. Barclays  
informed Mr K that as he authorised the payment and it followed his instructions, it hadnt 
made an error in sending  the payment of £600  and wouldnt  be refunding this. Mr K referred 
his complaint to our service.   
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and felt that Barclays  acted reasonably in following 
Mr Ks instruction to complete the £600  payment and that it did enough  to try and recover the 
funds once the scam was reported.  Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment,  so 
the case has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
Ref: DRN12012392identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr K when he transferred £600, or whether it should have done  more than it did. Mr K 
has accepted  that he made the transfer  for £600 himself. Because  of this, Barclays  had an 
obligation to follow Mr Ks instruction. Ive considered whether Barclays  should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Looking  at the statements for the account, I dont think  the 
payment was particularly  unusual  or suspicious in comparison  to Mr Ks normal  account 
activity. There isnt anything remarkable about the payment in terms of either its value or 
payment type.  So, I think the fact that Barclayss systems didnt flag the payment as 
suspicious was fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Mr K contacted Barclays on 23 October  2018 when he became aware that hed been the 
victim of a scam. Barclays raised a scam complaint and contacted the beneficiary bank the 
same day to request  a return of the funds. So, I think it did all it could to try and recover      
Mr Ks funds.  Unfortunately,  the scammer withdrew Mr Ks funds on 19 October, four days  
before Mr K notified  Barclays  of the scam. 
Mr Ks representative has raised concerns that we havent taken into consideration Mr Ks 
age. At the time of the scam, Mr K had just turned 17 years old. In this particular case, I dont 
think his age made him more susceptible to this specific  scam, and I dont think  Barclays  
needed to do more in this instance due to Mr Ks circumstances. 
Mr K has been the unfortunate  victim  of a scam and while  I empathise  with him, I have to 
consider Barclays actions. Having done  so, I think Barclayss decision not to refund Mr K in 
this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It followed Mr Ks instruction to 
make the transfer  of £600 and I havent  seen any reason why it shouldnt  have done this. 
And I think it took sufficient steps  to try and recover the funds in a timely  manner once  it was 
notified of the scam. 
Ref: DRN12012393my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1201239