K821x#15complaint
Mrs B, on behalf of herself  and the estate  of the late Mr B, says Santander UK Plc mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in March 1991 to protect  Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage repayments. Santander  cant confirm  where the sale took place. The policy gave 
Mr and Mrs B accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  They paid a monthly amount for 
it.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  so the complaint was passed to
me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check it was suitable for
them. And it had to give them enough  clear  information so they could make an informed
decision whether  or not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.
I say this because  Mrs B had a medical condition which met the policy  definition  of 
pre-existing and so would not have been covered by the policy. So it was likely that Mrs B 
would not have been able to claim on the policy when she needed to, and when she 
expected to be able to. And I cant see Santander considered this when it made its 
recommendation, or that it made this clear to Mr and Mrs B.
Ive considered the banks arguments that it would have asked about  pre-existing medical
conditions during the sale; that Mr and Mrs B would  have  been told about  the exclusion and
that the policy summary provided information  on the same.  But I dont think  this evidences
that it clearly highlighted that pre-existing  medical  conditions would be excluded  from
cover. Or that it took her medical circumstances properly into account when making the 
recommendation.
The bank asked  for more evidence of her condition and when it was diagnosed. But Im 
satisfied I can reach  a fair decision based on the evidence  we have. There  have been  no 
inconsistencies in Mrs Bs testimony.  She has told us her diagnosis  date was either  April or 
May 1991, but that she was seeing the doctor before this time. And she has given detailed 
information about her medication, and the time she had to initially  take off work. 
Given the nature of her condition I think its likely she was under supervision and undergoing 
tests for a number of months prior to diagnosis. So I think its fair to conclude  that her 
condition met the policy definition  of pre-existing medical conditions.  For this policy that 
Ref: DRN17002952included conditions for which medical  advice  was sought in the two year period immediately 
prior to cover commencing. 
As Mrs B was seeking  medical  attention at the time of the sale for what  went  on to be 
diagnosed as a severe  ongoing  condition, I think its most  likely  Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have 
taken out the PPI if theyd been better advised and informed  
It follows I think Mr and Mrs B lost out because of the problems with this sale.
putting things right
Santander should put Mrs B and the estate of the late Mr B in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, 
and Santander  should:
Pay Mrs B and the estate of the late Mr B the amount paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made  under the PPI policy, Santander can take off the 
value of the claim from the amount  it owes. If applicable, it can also deduct any 
commission already  refunded.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. Santander  UK Plc must pay compensation to Mrs B 
and the estate of the late Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1700295