K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont pay her the 
money that shes claimed in relation to a gas fire. Her complaint is made against Barclaycard 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  and her husband is also involved with her 
complaint. 
background
Mrs C used her Barclaycard credit card in January and March 2018  to make two payments 
totalling £1,656 for a gas fire. She says that the fire was mis-sold to her because the control 
mechanism for the fire isnt what was agreed  with the supplier. And she says that it will cost 
her a further £1,250 to remove the existing fire and replace it with one with the correct 
control mechanism. She complained to the supplier and then claimed  £1,250 from 
Barclaycard under section 75 to enable her to replace the fire with one that she and her 
husband are able to use. She wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained to this 
service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  that 
there was sufficient evidence to show  that there was a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract  or that the goods werent  as described  as Mrs C was supplied and fitted with a fire 
that was as described in the sales invoice.
Mrs C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She has responded 
in detail and has provided a summary  of her claim.  She says, in summary, that:
the supplier made a mistake with the order;
there was no detailed document produced and given to her before the order was 
placed that specified exactly what was being ordered;
she and her husband told the supplier  that they would be happy with either a hand 
operated slide control on the top/side  of the fire or a remote control;
the fire thats  been supplied has ground level controls which arent suitable for them; 
and
they contacted  the supplier as soon  as the fire had been  installed and didnt  use it so 
that it could be replaced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint about  
Barclaycard, I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier and that Barclaycards  response  to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mrs Cs claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
I sympathise with Mrs C that she hasnt  received  the gas fire that she was expecting  and I 
can understand the frustration and inconvenience  that shes  been caused. But Barclaycard 
is only liable under section 75 if theres  been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by 
the supplier. 
Ref: DRN11000032The fire thats been supplied to Mrs C is consistent  with the sales  invoice that was prepared 
by the supplier  and has manual controls  as set out on the sales  invoice. But Mrs C says 
that the sales invoice wasnt given to her or her husband until after the fire had been fitted. 
But theres no order form, sales invoice  or other document that shows that Mrs C or her 
husband required a fire with a control mechanism  on the top or the side or a remote  control. 
And Mrs C and the supplier give very different accounts of what was agreed when Mrs C 
and her husband visited the showroom  - and theres  no other documentation to show what  
was agreed. 
The supplier  has supplied  and fitted a gas fire as described on the sales  invoice. And Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Barclaycard to pay to Mrs C the money that shes claimed  
or to take any other action in response to her complaint.   
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1100003