K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Miss J complain  about  Aviva Insurance Limited. 
background
Mr E and Miss J made a claim under their buildings policy for a wall that collapsed  following 
an alleged  storm. Aviva rejected the claim so Mr E and Miss J complained to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. 
They did think a storm had occurred,  which  Aviva initially didnt, but otherwise felt the claim 
failed. As Mr E and Miss J didnt agree the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either, for the same reasons as the investigator.  
I note that Aviva did originally state a storm hadnt  happened, but it now seems  that there  is 
a possibility the weather did get bad enough to qualify as a storm under the policy  cover. But 
as the investigator  pointed out the claim fails as it appears the wall was damaged due to its 
existing poor condition. 
Ive looked at the reports on file and they do indicate  that the wall failed due, at least in part, 
to poor condition and / or upkeep. The policy  in its general conditions section requires the 
property to be kept in good condition and doesnt  cover wear and tear. I do think  these 
clauses mean this claim isnt covered. 
The reports  I have seen  certainly indicate the wall was in poor condition.  And, although I am 
not an expert, the photographs I have seen suggest there were issues  with the wall. The 
mortar holding the bricks together, the gaps showing, and the amount  of vegetation covering 
some aspects of the wall, all suggest it wasnt in a good condition  prior to the storm. 
Im sorry  that a storm did damage  Mr E and Miss Js wall (and fence) but due to the policy 
conditions and the state of the wall I dont think I can ask Aviva  to cover the claim. 
I also acknowledge that Mr E and Miss J did have a few issues  with the way their claim was 
handled, and delays concerning this. But as Im not upholding their claim I cant  add an 
award purely  for this delay. 
Ref: DRN17016652my final decision
I make  no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1701665