K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that the loan HSBC UK Bank  Plc gave her in December 2014 was 
unaffordable.
background
Mrs B said she was in financial difficulties and had health problems  when HSBC  accepted  
her application  for a loan in 2014. She applied for a consolidation loan of £25,000 and asked 
HSBC to increase  her existing loan from £15,665.50.  HSBC  initially  declined  her application 
on the basis that she was overcommitted. She said she was regularly  exceeding her 
overdraft, she had payday loans, and direct  debits had been  returned the previous month.  
She had been  off work earlier in the year for health reasons. She was vulnerable and not 
able to manage her accounts. Her application was looked at again by the underwriters and 
again declined.  She made  another application  three weeks  later which  was also declined.
This time her manager at work asked the underwriting team  to look at the application again 
and it was approved  with conditions. She said that her financial circumstances were the 
same as when the applications had been  declined.  So she thinks  this was irresponsible 
lending. 
She said one of the conditions of the loan was to make sure all external lending  was closed 
but this didnt happen. She told us she used the loan to pay off her debt but she said the 
branch didnt sit down  with her to help her close her existing borrowing. So it built up again. 
She said she appreciates  that some of the responsibility fails on her but she wasnt  in any 
state to be managing her finances. Shes asked HSBC for the phone calls where it was 
agreed that the branch  would help her close all her lending but HSBC said they are not 
available despite  the fact it keeps  them for six years.
HSBC said it didnt  know abut Mrs Bs health  problems until she made this complaint. It said 
the loan was exceptionally agreed  after Mrs Bs appealed the original decision. It said her 
decision not to close any lending accounts after shed paid off her creditors,  was outside its 
control. 
It said the loan wouldve  put her in a better financial position had she upheld  her 
commitments.  It said it was only consolidating the debt she already  had to make things 
more manageable for her. Her overall  lending was not increased  by this loan. And it was 
given to her to help her repay her existing lending at a lower  interest  rate.
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  had done  anything wrong.  He thought  it was trying to help 
her by consolidating her debt into a single monthly  payment  to try and put her in a better 
financial position. He said the decision not to close her external accounts was outside 
HSBCs control.
Mrs B wasnt  happy with this. She said the bank  failed her. She was having problems 
sending us her credit  file and wanted to show she had missed  payments and late payments. 
She said there was a note on her file that the branch  was to pay off and close  all lending  with 
her and it didnt do that. And it knew about her health problems. 
Ref: DRN14000092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. I can see how strongly Mrs B feels  
about this so I know she will be disappointed  with my decision.
Mrs B is having difficulty sending her credit  report to us which  she says will show  missed and 
late payments at the time of the lending although no arrears. But I dont  think  Mrs Bs credit 
history is in dispute. So Im satisfied  I can make my decision without it.
If a loan is unaffordable it means  that the customer  couldnt afford  to make the repayments 
at the time he or she was given  the credit. The affordability checks  a lender should carry out 
should be proportionate to the size of the loan and the cost of repayment. We cant say that 
HSBC shouldve done any particular check. But we can look at Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time to see if there was anything that shouldve  concerned HSBC.
Mrs B said her credit report shouldve given HSBC  cause for concern. But Mrs B has told us 
there were no arrears on the report. And I dont think missed and late payments would have 
led HSBC to conclude  this loan was unaffordable  particularly  as it was to help her 
consolidate those  debts and not to increase the overall level of her borrowing.  
Ive considered whether it was irresponsible for the bank to have given Mrs B the 
consolidation loan.  Irresponsible  lending  is not just about whether Mrs B could afford to 
repay the credit or not  its whether theres another reason  she shouldnt have had the 
credit. This will depend on her personal  circumstances.  And it could be irresponsible  to lend 
money to someone  who is in a debt spiral because  theyre borrowing money to repay other  
loans which  they cant afford. But I dont think thats  the case here. I accept she was 
repaying other loans  and was having  some  difficulty making the payments. But this was a 
consolidation loan for her to pay off all her other  debt and then to make a single monthly 
payment at a lower  interest rate. There wasnt any increase overall on her borrowing. So I 
cant see that was irresponsible  of HSBC.
Mrs B says that HSBC  knew at the time of the loan about her health problems and that she 
was vulnerable and couldnt manage  her finances. She said its not listening to the phone 
calls from that time. But even if HSBC had been aware of her circumstances I dont think  this 
wouldve made the lending irresponsible. . Lenders  shouldn't refuse to lend to someone  just 
because they have a particular medical history  this could be discrimination.  So, lending  
money to someone  in this sort of situation isnt automatically irresponsible  it depends on 
their individual circumstances.  But it could be irresponsible to lend money to someone  
whose medical condition might mean they wouldve had problems understanding  what they 
were doing.  I would like to reassure Mrs B that Im not minimising  the difficulties she faced 
from her health problems. But I dont think HSBC wouldve had enough information from her 
phone calls and other contact with her to conclude that she didnt understand what  she was 
doing when she asked HSBC for a consolidation loan. 
Mrs B is particularly  concerned because  she said one of the conditions of the loan was for 
the branch staff to sit down with her, help her pay off her debt with external lenders and then 
close down the accounts so she couldnt  use them again. Its not in dispute that she used the 
loan to repay her existing  debt but she said HSBC  didnt close her external accounts so she 
soon found her borrowing had substantially increased again.
Ref: DRN14000093I know Mrs B wont agree  with me but I dont think that was something HSBC could do. It 
could close down any HSBC accounts  Mrs B had. But it had no control over her external  
accounts. It had to be Mrs B herself  who closed those accounts. HSBC said its branch staff 
sat with her and sorted out her HSBC accounts.  And they made  sure all the external 
payments were made  to clear the balances so that she could  contact her creditors to make 
arrangements to close those accounts.  I know Mrs B wont  agree  with me but I cant  see it 
could have done anything more.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1400009