K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  ("Aviva")  still hasnt  paid a claim he made 
under his travel insurance policy following an incident abroad  in May 2017, when he suffered 
severe injuries including  the loss of his sight in one eye.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 February  2019,  a copy of which  is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mr R accepted the provisional decision.  Aviva said it had no further  comments  to make  and 
no more evidence to provide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R nor Aviva has provided  any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited to:
1.pay Mr Rs claim of £30,000, subject  to any applicable policy excess, with simple 
interest at the annual rate of 8% from 28 February 2018  until settlement; (1) and
2.pay Mr R in addition compensation of £300  for the distress  and inconvenience it 
caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
_________________________________________________________________________
(1) If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN14809162Copy of provisional  decision
Ive considered the relevant  information about Mr Rs complaint. Based on what  Ive seen so 
far Im thinking of upholding this complaint.
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 1 March  2019.  But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision  is likely  to be along the following lines. Final 
decisions will be published on our website. So that Mr R cant be identified,  Ill call him Mr R.
complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  still hasnt paid a claim he made  under 
his travel insurance policy following an incident  abroad in May 2017, when  he suffered severe  
injuries including the loss of his sight in one eye.
background
In April 2017,  Mr R went abroad with a group of friends for a short  break. Soon after arriving, 
Mr R became separated  from his friends. He was found some time later semi-conscious  with 
multiple injuries in a locked compound behind a 3-4 foot wall in another  part of town. He was 
taken to hospital  and from there,  when  stable, Aviva arranged for him to be returned by air 
ambulance to the UK.
In 2018, Mr Rs specialist in the UK confirmed that he had suffered complete total and 
permanent loss of sight in one eye, from which there was no hope of recovery. So he claimed 
under the personal injury  section of his travel policy, which carried a benefit of £30,000 for the 
accidental loss of one eye.
Aviva tried to get further details  of the circumstances  of Mr Rs injury. It arranged for Mr R to 
be interviewed, but he said the effect  of the injuries he had suffered was that he had little 
memory of the relevant  events. The limited local police report and hospital records shed little 
light on what  had happened. Aviva was trying to obtain a second local police report. 
Eventually Mr R complained  to us that Aviva should now pay his claim.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld.  She said Mr R thought  it 
likely he had been attacked and left. Aviva on the other hand thought  it likely he had fallen. 
She said Aviva was entitled  to make  reasonable  enquiries  before paying  a claim.  But the 
regulator also considered that claims should  be dealt with in a timely manner. She didnt think 
taking well over a year to deal with a claim  of this nature  was reasonable.
Aviva was suspicious that Mr R might have been under the influence of alcohol or other 
substances at the time of the accident,  which  under the policy  terms would  invalidate his 
claim. However she said the onus was on Aviva  to show this, and there wasnt any evidence 
that this was the case. And it was unreasonable to drag out a claim while looking  for 
something to turn up to invalidate  it.
The investigator thought Aviva should accept that Mr R had suffered an injury for which he 
was entitled to claim under his travel policy, and should now pay the claim.  She thought it 
should have been able to reach this conclusion by February 2018.  So she recommended  that 
it also pay interest on the claim from then,  and a further £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused Mr R.
Aviva responded  to say, in summary, that:
 the circumstances of the incident remained unclear, particularly how Mr R came to be 
inside the locked compound;
 although the policy covered an accidental  injury  such as Mr Rs this would be 
excluded if it resulted from a number of causes  listed in the policy  such as misuse of 
Ref: DRN14809163alcohol or drugs or Mr R putting himself deliberately at risk. It was possible the 
second police report might cast some light on this;
 Aviva only received  confirmation of the extent of Mr Rs injury from his specialist,  and 
that he wished to claim for it, on 5 February 2018; and
 Mr R had been unable  to provide  information. So it had been reliant on police and 
hospital reports. It had also asked Mr R in April 2018 to reaffirm the statement he had 
given it, but he hadnt  yet done  so.
Aviva said it would be willing  to pay Mr R the £30,000 benefit on condition he:
 reaffirmed the statement he had previously made as it had asked him to do; and
 signed an indemnity  form which specifically stated  that if it later found there was 
evidence to discredit his claim, he would  be liable to repay the £30,000 and the 
expenses in the region of £15,000  it had paid for the air ambulance home to the UK.
Mr R said he wanted to have  an end to the process, and didnt accept  Avivas proposal. So 
this complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree  with the investigator that it isnt reasonable for Aviva to drag out an 
investigation in the hope that something will turn up to support its suspicions.  Nor do I think 
its reasonable  for Mr R to have the prospect  of a large sum of money taken  back some time 
in the future  on the basis of evidence that Aviva at that stage may think proves  its suspicions.  
Theres no doubt that following  the incident, Mr R was left with substantial injuries, and lost 
his sight in one eye. Mr R says he has no memory of what  happened to him until he woke up 
in hospital. The policy has a number  of exclusions which  would allow Aviva to avoid liability, 
for example  if the injuries arose  because Mr R:
 misused alcohol or drugs;
 deliberately  put himself at risk of death or injury; or
 jumped  or climbed over any balcony, railing,  ledge  or wall.
However the limited  local police report and the hospital records  dont explain  what happened, 
and Aviva hasnt been able to show that any of the policy  exclusions apply in this case, or that 
Mr R isnt being truthful when he says he cant remember what happened.
I dont think the knowledge  Aviva has now is significantly greater than it had in early  February 
2018, when it received the specialists  report and knew of Mr Rs claim.  So I think that by the 
end of February 2018 it should have reached a decision to pay the claim, and should have 
paid Mr R the £30,000 due under the policy.
Aviva has asked Mr R to sign a document reaffirming the statement  he made  in April 2018 
and giving it certain rights  if new evidence  comes to light. This is a matter for Mr R, but isnt 
something I require as part of my decision, which is based on what  in my opinion is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.  For the avoidance of doubt a decision of this service, if 
accepted by the consumer,  is binding  on the financial business.
I conclude that Aviva should  now pay Mr Rs claim  of £30,000, with simple interest at the 
annual rate of 8% from 28 February  2018 until settlement.  It should pay him in addition 
compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience its delay in dealing  with his claim 
has caused  him.
Ref: DRN14809164my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive 
from either Mr R or Aviva by 1 March 2019, I intend uphold this complaint.  I intend to require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to:
1. pay Mr Rs claim of £30,000, subject to any applicable  policy excess, with simple  
interest at the annual rate of 8% from 28 February 2018 until settlement;(1) and
2. pay Mr R in addition compensation of £300 for the distress  and inconvenience  it 
caused him.
 
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
(1) If Aviva  considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold  income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1480916