K820x#14complaint
G, a limited company,  complains that HSBC  UK Bank Plc had originally told it an overdraft  
was agreed on its bank account  but then found this was not correct.  
background
HSBC opened  a bank account  for G on 15 March  2018. G says it was told that an overdraft 
of £10,000 was agreed. When G wanted  to borrow £1,000 in February  2019  it was told that 
there was no limit in place. It made  an application  which was declined. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-HSBC had been able to provide recordings of calls with G on 9 and 12 March 2018.  
But it said it no longer  had a copy of a call of 16 March  2018. 
-HSBC said in its final response that during  that call of 16 March 2018 it told G that as 
the account had just been opened  it could  not access  details about  an overdraft. But 
it said G should call back in five working days if G had still not heard by then. There 
was no record of any call from G about  this after that.
-The application record  from HSBC  for G did not show an overdraft had been  agreed. 
And there was no correspondence sent to G about whether an overdraft  had been  
agreed or declined.
-HSBC had said that it would have required personal guarantees from the directors  for 
an overdraft of this amount and there  was no record of any letters about this.
G did not agree. It wanted this service to demand a copy of a recording  of the missing call. It 
had ticked a box on the application  form stating  it wanted a £10,000 overdraft.  G did not 
know that it would have received documentation  about the overdraft. And it said it would  
pursue this matter  in court.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has told this service a recording of the call of 16 March 2018 is no longer available. 
And I can see that in the final response  letter of 11 March 2019 to G it said that we are 
currently in the process  of changing  the way in which we retrieve  recorded  calls. As a result 
unfortunately a recording  of the above  call cannot be sent to you. I fully understand why G 
finds this unsatisfactory  as its position is that HSBC told a director in that call that the 
overdraft was agreed. But weve  already asked for the call and there  is nothing  further I can 
realistically do about this - it cannot now be produced. 
I can see that the case notes about the application  for the account start from January 2018. 
And the calls I have listened  to from a director of G to HSBC on 9 and 12 March  2018 are 
expressing disquiet about the time it was taking to process the application. And that some 
information G had already  provided  had not been  dealt with. 
HSBC says it sent G a welcome letter about  the account being  opened  on 15 March  2018. 
That would be consistent with the director phoning  the next day about whether an overdraft 
was in place or not. I dont doubt  that G wanted  to have an overdraft.
Ref: DRN19283192There is no evidence that HSBC processed an application for an overdraft at that time. I note 
that if it had its policy  would be to ask for a personal guarantee from the directors. There  was 
no written communication  about the overdraft  which would  have  confirmed the position. An 
overdraft if agreed would have been an on demand  facility. And G had not used any agreed  
overdraft borrowing facility before its later request  in February 2019. HSBC has said to G 
that this subsequent application was turned down based  upon  the information  provided by 
an external credit agency.  
I dont have a reasonable  basis on the evidence available to find that HSBC  made  an error 
and had committed to provide  an overdraft for G.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1928319