K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that a international  bankers draft Barclays  Bank UK PLC issued couldnt 
be cashed by the intended  beneficiary. He thinks the bank  should  cover his associated  
financial losses and pay him compensation for the time and costs involved  in sorting things 
out.
background
At Mr Ms request Barclays raised a bankers draft and sent it to an overseas recipient  (via a 
third party). The recipient  tried to pay the draft into their account but it was refused, it seems,  
because there was no magnetic ink character recognition (MICR) line on the draft.
Mr M queried this with Barclays and the bank said it hadnt done anything  wrong in the way it 
raised the draft. It said:
The draft was valid and fit for purpose.
Generally-speaking its international drafts are accepted worldwide, without any 
problems.
It wasnt aware of the local agreements  that were in place in the geographical area 
where the draft was presented for payment. But now it is its unlikely further drafts  will be 
issued to customers for presentation in that geographical area.
Barclays did accept it could have  been clearer in its explanations when Mr M got in touch 
after the draft was refused. As a result  it covered the exchange rate loss that occurred when 
the money from the draft was converted back into sterling and returned to his account. And 
offered to pay a further £250  compensation.
Mr M wasnt happy with the banks  explanations  or its refusal  to pay for the other losses  hed 
incurred. So he brought his complaint to us. But our investigator thought  the bank had done 
enough to put things  right. Mr M continued  to disagree, so the complaint has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator, for much the same reasons.
Mr M says Barclays failed  to do what was agreed  to provide and deliver a valid bankers 
draft. And Ive taken into account  what  hes said and the evidence  hes provided,  including  
the documents hes provided about the clearing house and arrangements that were  
introduced in the relevant  geographical area in late-2014/early-2015. But those notes refer to 
the clearing and settlement of local currency cheques, not international drafts. And I dont  
think its fair to interpret Barclays comments in the way Mr M has. So, like the investigator,  
Ive seen nothing  which suggests Barclays knew (or should have known)  that the draft it 
issued would not be accepted by the recipients  bank.  Ive also no reason to doubt  what 
Barclays has told us about its drafts being widely accepted, without problem, in other areas 
of the world. 
In the circumstances I dont think it was wrong  of Barclays  to issue the draft and it wouldnt 
be fair to expect the bank to cover the losses Mr M says he incurred as a result  of the draft 
being refused.  
Ref: DRN16070612Ive also considered what Barclays did to help once  Mr M told them the draft had been 
refused. That includes  it investigating the problem and trying to find a way to help get the 
draft accepted. I appreciate Mr M may have spent  some considerable time liaising  with 
various parties, including  Barclays,  in order  to understand why the problem with the draft had 
occurred and to ensure  the money  he needed to pay got to its destination promptly. And that 
Barclays has accepted  it couldve  been clearer about the possible  exchange  rate losses that 
might occur if the draft was cancelled.  But, overall, think  the bank has been generous  in 
covering the exchange rate loss (which amounted to more than £2,000)  and offering  Mr M a 
further £250 compensation. So I cant fairly tell it to pay anything  further.
Ill leave it to Mr M to decide  now whether to accept  the banks £250 offer. He should contact 
Barclays direct if he wishes to do so.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1607061