K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Society  of Lloyds has unfairly declined  their travel insurance 
claim.
background
Mr and Mrs P travelled abroad  for a holiday.  Having arrived at the airport for their return  flight  
home, Mr and Mrs P were  advised  that their flight was cancelled due to bad weather in the 
UK. The airline told them that they could either rebook onto the next flight, which  would leave 
in 18 days time, or accept  a refund for the cost of the original return  flight. As they were  
unable to remain abroad for a further 18 days due to work commitments,  Mr and Mrs P 
accepted the refund  for the original  return flights  and made their own way home, using a 
combination of trains, taxis and a plane.  Mr and Mrs P believed their travel  insurance policy 
would pay them £25 each  per 12 hour delay,  had they remained abroad for the full 18 days  
So, Mr and Mrs P believed  they had saved Society  of Lloyds money  by making their own 
way home.
On returning to the UK, Mr and Mrs P submitted  a claim for the cost of the journey, less the 
refund received from the airline.  Society  of Lloyds said it would pay a total of £100 (£25 per 
12 hour delay each) as Mr and Mrs P were only delayed by one full day before beginning 
their journey  home. 
Mr and Mrs P complained, saying that the only reason they were delayed for just one day 
was due to their decision to make  their own way home via alternative transport. 
Society of Lloyds looked at their complaint and said travel delay benefit was payable  based 
on the actual time delayed, so the claim had been settled in line with the terms of Mr and 
Mrs Ps policy. 
Society of Lloyds also said that Mr and Mrs Ps alternative travel  costs were out of pocket 
expenses, which were not covered  under their policy  and advised that the airline
should be compensating them for the delayed flight.  Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with their 
response and brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at their case.  At first, she recommended  that Society of Lloyds should  
pay Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the cancellation section of their policy. She later amended 
her opinion and said Society of Lloyds should  pay Mr and Mrs P for the cost of their 
alternative travel arrangements. 
Mr and Mrs P accepted this view,  but Society of Lloyds disagreed. So, this complaint has 
been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, and Ill explain how Ive come  to this decision.  
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think the claim is covered under the cancellation section 
of the policy. This section  only applies  to trips which are cancelled in their entirety   which  
Ref: DRN16856372Mr and Mrs Ps trip wasnt. Ive looked  at the travel  delay section of Mr and Mrs Ps policy  
which states: 
 The period of delay  will be calculated from the time shown in the official travel itinerary as 
supplied to you. If the flight on which you were  booked is cancelled, the period of delay will 
be calculated using  the first flight offered to you on which you could have travelled, 
whichever is the sooner  or, if you did not continue your trip, the time of the cancellation.
Under the terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, the Society  of Lloyds is entitled to 
calculate the benefit payable by reference  to their actual departure time rather than the first 
date on which they could have travelled. However, I dont think  its fair and reasonable for 
Society of Lloyds to do so in the circumstances  in this case. 
The next flight offered  to Mr and Mrs P by their airline was 18 days later. Instead of waiting  
for this period  of time, Mr and Mrs P arranged to take their hire car back  and then incurred 
taxi fares  and train fares in order to get to an airport more than 200 miles away from their 
original intended  point of departure. They then flew back to a different UK airport  than that of 
their original itinerary. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs P went to considerable time, expense  and trouble in order to return 
to the UK. They didnt  depart from the original airport they were at, nor did they arrive back  
at the UK airport theyd  left home  from.  Opting to take a direct train home  wouldve  saved 
them some time and trouble but, as Mr and Mrs P believed they were reducing Society of 
Lloyds liability under their insurance, they instead took a more  cost-effective route  home. 
So, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to consider Mr and Mrs P as 
having been delayed only 25 hours.
If Mr and Mrs P had chosen to take the first flight offered by their airline, Society of Lloyds 
wouldve been liable to pay them a maximum travel delay benefit of £500 per person.  So, I 
think the fair and reasonable  outcome in this case would  be for Society of Lloyds to accept  
their claim for the additional expenses they incurred, up to the policy  limit. 
Society of Lloyds has said that Mr and Mrs P should  pursue the matter with their airline. But 
these arguments  dont change my opinion. The travel  delay  section of their insurance 
provides a fixed benefit (not an indemnity benefit). In any event, their policy  doesnt say that 
a successful travel delay claim is dependent on having made  a claim to the airline for any 
additional costs  incurred. 
Ref: DRN16856373my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. So Society of Lloyds must 
pay Mr and Mrs Ps claim for additional expenses  under the travel delay section of cover, 
subject to the relevant policy limits and/or excesses.
The Society of Lloyds is entitled to deduct  any monies already paid from the settlement due 
but must  add interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the claim until the date 
settlement is paid.  
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Rebecca Kemp
ombudsman
*If the Society of Lloyds  consider that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN1685637