K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a single premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy sold 
to him in 1995.
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) has accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
In October  1995 Mr C purchased a freezer and a video  recorder  from a store.  He paid a 
deposit but took out a buy now, pay later hire purchase agreement  for the remainder of the 
purchase price. The credit  agreement shows that the first repayment was due in April 1996, 
and if Mr C repaid the credit before that date hed incur  no interest.
At the same time as Mr C bought the electrical  goods he was sold a PPI policy  funded by a 
single premium of £62.90  which was added to the credit.
Mr C paid the outstanding amount before April 1996 during the interest-free period.
In 2018 Mr C complained  that he was mis-sold the PPI policy. He wants FICL to refund the 
£62.90 premium plus interest.
FICL says the PPI premium of £62.90 was refunded in full when Mr C repaid the credit early.  
So FICL says Mr C never paid any money  for PPI and therefore has not suffered  any loss.
An adjudicator from this service said Mr C had never paid for the PPI. Mr C disagreed with 
the adjudicators  findings. He said there was no evidence  of any rebate and he cant  recall  
the PPI premium being refunded. The complaint was then been passed  to me. 
I note Mr C was also charged  £17.95 for an extended warranty. To be clear, in this decision I 
am only dealing  with the sale of the PPI policy. 
In June 2019 I issued my provisional findings  on this complaint and invited  both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold Mr Cs complaint, my main 
reasons were:
From  the copy of the original credit agreement I could  see the credit 
agreement terms. Under the terms of the agreement  it stated that if Mr C 
ended the agreement before the first payment was due, the cash price of the 
PPI would be deducted from the sum outstanding.  So the terms indicated that 
if Mr C repaid the credit early,  as he did, the PPI premium should have been 
deducted.
I could also see a handwritten note on the credit agreement stating that the 
sum of £611.98 was TO PAY. This sum was the amount Mr C would need to 
Ref: DRN13916172have paid to end the credit agreement early with the PPI premium  having 
been deducted.
So taking  this into account I thought it most  likely that the PPI premium  had 
been deducted from the amount Mr C owed before he repaid the credit.
Both parties  have now replied to my provisional findings.
FICL has said it has nothing further to add.
Mr C has told us he cannot recall  the exact  circumstances when he took out the credit, which  
is understandable as the events took place over 20 years ago. But Mr C says his best 
recollection is that the figure of £611.98  TO PAY was written on the credit  agreement for 
him to take away to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive thought about Mr Cs response to my provisional findings but Im not persuaded to 
change my original findings.
All parties  agree that Mr C did repay the credit  before the first payment became due, thus 
taking of advantage of the interest-free period.
It may be that the note indicating that Mr C would  need to pay £611.98 was written on the 
credit agreement at the time Mr C purchased the goods. And that this was done  so he could  
consider his options. But having done so it seems clear Mr C made the decision to clear  the 
credit early  before the first payment. Bearing  in mind the note on the credit  agreement,  if 
hed have been asked to pay more  than £611.98 Id expect him to have questioned it at the 
time. And Ive not seen  any evidence that he did so.
So I think Mr C most  likely paid the sum of £611.98 which  meant he did not pay the PPI 
premium as it had already  been deducted  from the sum outstanding.
Mr C has pointed out that he had put a guarantor in place when he took out the credit.  But it 
could be that was a requirement of the lender  rather than Mr Cs choice. And I dont think  the 
presence of a guarantor  makes it more likely that Mr C paid for the PPI premium when he 
settled the credit early.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint and I make  no award against  Financial Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Ref: DRN13916173Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13916174copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to him in 
1995.
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  has 
accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred to FICL during this decision.
background
In October 1995 Mr C purchased a freezer and a video recorder from a store. He paid a deposit but 
took out a buy now, pay later hire purchase agreement for the remainder  of the purchase price. The 
credit agreement shows that the first repayment was due in April 1996, and if Mr C repaid the credit 
before that date hed incur no interest.
At the same time as Mr C bought the electrical  goods  he was sold a PPI policy  funded by a single 
premium of £62.90 which was added to the credit.
Mr C paid the outstanding  amount before April 1996  during  the interest-free  period.
In 2018 Mr C complained  that he was mis-sold  the PPI policy. He wants  FICL to refund the £62.90 
premium plus interest.
FICL says the PPI premium of £62.90 was refunded in full when Mr C repaid the credit early. So FICL 
says Mr C never paid any money  for PPI and therefore has not suffered any loss.
An adjudicator from this service  said Mr C had never paid for the PPI. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings. He said there was no evidence  of any rebate and he cant recall the PPI 
premium being refunded.
The complaint has now been passed to me. 
I note Mr C was also charged £17.95 for an extended warranty. To be clear, in this decision I am only 
dealing with the sale of the PPI policy.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Where a PPI policy has been mis-sold, Id usually expect a business to put the consumer in the 
position they would be in if they had not taken it out in the first place. That would normally  involve the 
business refunding any PPI premium the consumer  had paid plus interest to compensate for the time 
they had been out of pocket.
In this case FICL says Mr C was never actually charged for the PPI it sold him as it rebated the 
premium when he settled the credit early. It has shown us a screenshot  of its internal systems  which  it 
says show  Mr C didnt pay any PPI premium.
On the other hand Mr C says the PPI was added to the outstanding credit amount  which he paid in 
full.
Ref: DRN13916175So I need to make a finding on whether it is most likely  Mr C paid for the PPI.
Apart from the screenshot shown  to us by FICL it has very little other evidence from 1995.  Thats  not 
surprising due to the time that has elapsed.
Fortunately, Mr C has been able to send us a copy  of the original credit agreement  from October  
1995. Mr C says this agreement shows he was charged for the PPI. 
I have carefully studied  the original credit  agreement.
On the reverse of the agreement under the heading, Credit Agreement Terms,  there are six sub-
headings. Item four is titled,  Early Settlement By You. Within this section is the following wording:
You may bring this Agreement to an end at any time before  the first payment becomes  due or on the 
first payment  date by giving us notice in writing and by paying us a sum equivalent to the total credit 
provided less the cash price of the payment protection (if any) shown in the schedule.
This means  that when  Mr C paid the outstanding credit  before the first payment  was due in April 
1996, the PPI premium  should have been deducted from the total.  So this shows that if the correct 
procedure was followed  Mr C would not have paid for the PPI policy.
Ive next looked at the available evidence  to decide  if that is what happened.
On the front of the agreement under the heading,  Description of Goods  and/or Services, the 
agreement lists the goods and services Mr C was buying. These are:
Freezer  £279.99
Video Recorder  £399.99
Freezer Warranty  £17.95
Delivery Charge  £7.99
PPI  £62.90
These items  total £768.82,  but I notice  that Mr C received a discount of £25.94 under the heading, 
Managers Discretion making the total £742.88 which  is given as the Total  Cash Price.
Below this there is a section which  sets out the credit arrangements.
I can see that Mr C paid a deposit of £68.00 meaning that the Total  Credit Provided  was £674.88. 
(£742.88 - £68.00).
This means  Mr C took out total credit of £674.88 which included the £62.90 PPI premium.
According to the credit agreement terms on the reverse of the agreement  Mr C could bring the 
agreement to an end before April 1996 by paying £611.98 which was the total credit provided 
(£674.88) less the cash price of the PPI (£62.90). 
Looking at the credit  agreement I can see the figure  of £611.98 has been handwritten on the 
agreement and circled  together  with the handwritten words, TO PAY.
I dont know who wrote this on the agreement or when. It could have been Mr C or it might have been 
the salesperson  at the store.  But in any event this is very persuasive evidence that when Mr C cleared 
the credit the PPI premium was deducted from the total credit outstanding, as this figure of £611.98 is 
the correct amount after the PPI deduction.  Meaning Mr C didnt actually pay the PPI premium. And 
this would  be in line with the credit agreement terms as shown on the reverse of the agreement.
Ref: DRN13916176I think  some confusion may have been caused by the use of the terms rebated or refunded. The 
PPI premium was never  refunded  or rebated to Mr C as in my view he never actually paid the 
premium. It was in fact deducted from the total credit amount he had to pay to he settled the account 
early before the first payment was due.
  
Taking everything into account, the FICL screenshot, the terms of the credit agreement, the amounts 
shown on the credit  agreement  and the handwritten  note, I think  it most  likely that Mr C never paid the 
PPI premium so never actually  suffered  a loss due to any mis-sale of the PPI. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint  and Im not intending  to make any award against Financial  
Insurance Company  Limited.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1391617