K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr B had one loan with Uncle Buck in March  2018. He borrowed £500,  repayable  in monthly  
instalments of around £157 over six months.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Bs complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  They  
thought Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate checks before lending and that it hadnt 
acted unfairly by lending to Mr B. Mr B didnt  agree,  so the complaint  was passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Bs case.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Bs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
Before lending to Mr B, Uncle Buck took into account information he provided about his 
income and expenditure. Mr B declared  a monthly  income of £2,700  and total monthly 
expenditure of £850. This included £100  towards credit/store cards and £600  towards  
mortgage and fixed loans.
Uncle Buck  also carried  out a credit check.  This suggested Mr B had £14,478 of revolving 
credit (e.g. credit cards) and additionally showed  £1,039 classified as [fixed term] loan 
balances. The credit check also suggested that Mr B didnt have  any other short-term loans 
at the time  although it seems hed opened  (and presumably repaid) some other short-term 
loans in the months leading up to his loan from Uncle Buck.
Ref: DRN17606612Taking all of this into account,  I think the checks Uncle Buck  carried  out were  proportionate. 
I dont think it had any real reason to believe the monthly instalments of around  £157 were 
unaffordable for Mr B. The information provided  by Mr B suggested  he could afford  to repay  
the loan and the information Uncle Buck received from a credit reference  agency didnt really 
undermine that. The credit check may have shown that Mr B had recently accessed 
short-term loans from elsewhere, but I dont think that is enough to demonstrate Mr B 
couldnt afford the loan he asked Uncle Buck to provide. The overall amount of existing 
credit Mr B had also didnt suggest  that further credit wouldnt  be sustainable.
For these reasons, I dont  think  Uncle Buck acted unfairly by providing  a loan to Mr B. So Im 
not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Uncle Buck Finance LLP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1760661