K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase  agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs W under a hire purchase agreement  with BMW Financial 
Services that she signed in April 2018. She says that the car was valeted four days later 
(when her familys other cars had their monthly valet) and afterwards she noticed  scratches  
on the paintwork  of her car. Mrs W complained to BMW Financial Services  about  a month 
after that (and after shed spoken  with the valeter  and another dealer). BMW  Financial 
Services offered to inspect the car and to clean and polish it. But Mrs W didnt accept its 
offer and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
scratches were noticed within a few days of Mrs W acquiring the car after it had been  
cleaned and on a bright day. And she didnt  think it would be likely that scratches  had been 
caused all over the car within  a short period of time by Mrs W driving it. So she didnt think 
that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was acquired by Mrs W and that she was 
entitled to reject the car. And she recommended that BMW Financial Services should  end 
the agreement, collect  the car and refund  the deposit (with interest).
BMW Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It 
says, in summary, that Mrs W had been given the option to have the issue repaired  which  
was more than adequate   but she hadnt  accepted  that and it doesnt know if the scratches 
were there at the point of sale because Mrs W had the car valeted  before she contacted it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
A new car was supplied  to Mrs W in April 2018. As it was a new car I consider that she was 
entitled to expect the car to be free from faults.  She says that the car was valeted by a 
professional valeter  four days  after it was supplied  to her  when the familys other cars were  
valeted. And she says that in bright light the next day she noticed scratches in the paintwork 
all over the car. There was a delay before the valeter was able to have another look at the 
car and Mrs W then took the car to a different dealer before complaining  to BMW  Financial 
Services.
It offered  to inspect the car and to clean and polish it. But Mrs W didnt think  that that would 
resolve the issue. I consider that Mrs W was entitled  to receive a car that was free from 
scratches. And I consider it to be more  likely  than not in these circumstances that the car 
was scratched when  it was supplied to Mrs W. Im not persuaded that its likely that so many  
scratches in the paintwork wouldve been caused  by Mrs W driving the car in the first four 
days after it was supplied  to her or that they wouldve been  caused by a professional  valeter.
Ref: DRN18080352So I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mrs W. And I find that it would  be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for Mrs W to reject the car. So I find that BMW  Financial Services should end 
the hire purchase  agreement and collect the car from Mrs W  both at no cost to her. And I 
find that it should refund the deposit  that she paid for the car  with interest.  Mrs W has been 
able to use the car since it was supplied to her  so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require BMW Financial Services to refund to her any of the monthly 
payments that shes made for the car  or to pay her any other compensation. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. And I order BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mrs W 
 both at no cost to her.
2.Refund to Mrs W the deposit that she paid for the car.
3.Pay interest on that deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires BMW  Financial  Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 3 above. BMW Financial Services must give Mrs W a certificate 
showing how much  tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1808035