K822xthe complaint
Mr T says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr T made a number of complaints 
to TSB about this. He said hed had intermittent  problems  using online and mobile banking  
and hadnt been able to upgrade his account online. Direct debits set up on his account 
hadnt been paid and hed had trouble cancelling them with TSB. And he wasnt happy  with 
how TSB administered his complaints. He said the whole situation had been  very stressful.
TSB initially set up several  complaints about  the problems Mr T raised  in April, May and 
June  and paid him compensation for each complaint.  TSB later merged all the complaints 
into one. TSB told us theyve paid Mr T a total of £195.75 for costs and £90 to compensate  
him for the impact the problems had on him.  
After looking at Mr Ts account statements our adjudicator  noted  that Mr T only seems  to 
have a cash account with TSB. That account  hasnt had any money  in it since  December 
2017 and doesnt have  an overdraft  facility. The adjudicator explained that this was the 
reason Mr Ts direct debits werent  being  paid. The adjudicator suggested Mr T should 
contact TSB if he wants to discuss upgrading his account. Overall, the adjudicator  felt TSB 
had paid Mr T fair compensation for the issues hed raised. 
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome and said he wanted an ombudsmans  decision. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing that, I think TSB have already paid Mr T a fair amount of compensation, so I 
wont be asking them to pay anything more.  But Ill explain  why.
Ive listened to the call Mr T made when he first referred his complaint to us. Its clear that 
most of his concerns centred on how TSB set up and looked into his complaints. He was 
unhappy TSB set up separate  complaints each time he called, which  he says caused  delays.  
And he said hed spent a lot of time calling  and chasing up TSB.  He feels  they treated him 
unfairly by not answering his complaint within regulatory timescales.
As the adjudicator has already explained to Mr T, we arent a regulator. So my role isnt to 
punish or fine TSB, or tell them  how they must set up and run their wider processes.  But I 
can look at the things Mr T says went wrong in his individual  case  with his account and his 
online banking. Ive thought about  the impact he says that had on him, as well as what  TSB 
did to put things right and whether they treated him fairly overall.  
I can appreciate that Mr T may have found  it frustrating not being able to access  his online 
banking at times  and not being able to do some of the things he says he wanted to do. But, 
when Im weighing up the impact  these things are likely to have had, I also have  to consider 
that Mr T seems to have  only had one account  with TSB  and that account hasnt had any 
money in it for quite  some time. So its hard to say the lack of online access would be likely 
to have had much impact  on how Mr T managed  his finances.  
Ref: DRN16568832Ive also taken into account that Mr Ts direct debits werent being paid because there was 
no money in his account to pay them, and no overdraft facility either. I dont think Mr T could 
reasonably expect the direct debits to be paid from this account unless he first put enough 
money into the account to cover them. If Mr T wasnt able to do that he could have cancelled  
the direct  debits with the companies  claiming them, or asked them  to claim the payments 
from a different account instead. 
Looking at Mr Ts statements I can see that the situation with his direct debits has been  
going on since at least March 2018. So it started before TSBs IT migration issues  and 
doesnt seem to have  been caused  by them.  Despite this, TSB have paid Mr T for the 
charges he says the companies claiming  the direct  debits  had applied.  And, because Mr T 
has a cash account,  TSB havent applied any charges for the failed direct debits either.
Mr T says he doesnt feel TSB answered  his complaint quickly,  or treat him fairly.  But I 
understand that TSB offered compensation to Mr T for each of his complaints  when  he 
called to raise his concerns. And they paid that compensation in April,  May and again in 
June to an account Mr T holds with another bank. TSB refunded quite a high amount of call 
and travel costs which Mr T said he ran up calling TSB and going  to branches  as well as 
making a payment to him for trouble and upset.  So overall I do think  TSB treated him fairly.  
Taking everything into account,  I think the £285.75  TSB have already paid to Mr T is fair 
compensation for the issues hes raised.  
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc have  paid Mr T a fair amount of compensation to 
resolve his complaint. So I make no order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1656883