K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of his company  S that Barclays  Bank  Plc wont  refund several 
transactions that werent authorised.
background
In June 2017, an unauthorised third party gained access to Ss computers through  installing 
a virus. They  were then able to make several  transactions - transferring a significant  amount 
of money from Ss account. Ive set out below the details of the transactions  in dispute:
Amount Time set up Time authorised
£4,970 11:20 11:22
£7,326 11:45 12:12
£4,923 11:45 12:12
£4,820 11:45 12:12
£4,650 11:45 12:12
The first transaction  was set up as a standalone payment. The four that followed were set up 
as a batch of payments.
When Mr S realised  what had happened, he got in touch  with NatWest to say that neither he, 
nor anyone linked to S had made  these  payments. NatWest contacted the bank that 
received the money  but was only able to prevent a very small amount of money from being 
spent. 
Mr S felt that Barclays systems were at fault here, rather than it being the responsibility of S. 
He thought Barclays should have  noticed the transactions were unusual.  He also thought  
Barclays should have  ensured S was using the up to date technology, citing some 
opportunities the bank would have been  able to do so.
Barclays looked into the fraud and it felt that S was at fault,  given how these transactions 
had taken place.  It said S hadnt ensured it was using the up to date security technology the 
bank provided. Nor had it operated the technology  it was using in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Specifically, it said:
new card readers  with integrated PIN pads had been provided to S but werent in 
use. S had continued to us old ones  where  PINs would  be entered using a PC 
keyboard;
S had told the bank  it was using the new PIN pads;
parties at S that were  authorised to transact on the account had left two separate  
smart cards  inserted into the card readers. Had either been removed  as they were 
supposed to have been  the transactions couldnt have happened.
It therefore felt S had been grossly negligent and had failed to protect its account. 
Barclays explained it had provided a number  of warnings and explanations  and with some 
regularity  as to the risks of not keeping the technology up to date and operating it as 
instructed. Barclays said that if S operated the technology in the way it recommended,  the 
transactions would  never have happened. 
Ref: DRN19497832Mr S wasnt  happy with Barclays answer and brought  Ss complaint to us, where  one of our 
investigators looked into it. She also thought  that S had acted with gross negligence which 
had allowed the transactions to take place. She didnt think the bank was responsible for 
ensuring S was using  the right technology  and operating it correctly and noted  S had told the 
bank it was doing so.
Our investigator also didnt feel the bank should have realised something was wrong  with the 
transactions. Mr S specifically commented  on the unusual recipient names and references 
that had been applied  to the transactions. The investigator explained  that these wouldnt 
have been checked and that it was only the account number and sort code that would have 
been used to make the payments. 
Mr S didnt agree  saying that he didnt  understand how Barclays could have let this happen  
for the amount of money involved.  He said that Barclays  should  have noticed that the 
transactions were  unusual  and stopped them  from happening. So the complaint was passed  
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
In situations like this Barclays  is entitled to hold S liable for these transactions  where  it can 
be shown that S authorised them, or that they happened as a result of Ss gross negligence.  
This liability is set out in the Payment Service Regulations and confirmed in the account 
terms and conditions. 
No one disputes that these transactions werent  authorised by S. Its accepted S was the 
victim of a sophisticated fraudster. So what I must  decide here is whether I think Barclays is 
fair to say the transactions happened  as a result of S being grossly  negligent.  
The transactions were  facilitated through technology that Barclays  provides. Put simply, the 
bank provides an online platform for businesses like S to securely perform administrative 
functions for its finances, along with making payments. 
Barclays provided S with two card readers and two smart cards which are used to access 
and operate the account online. For these transactions to have been made both cards 
wouldve needed to have been  placed  in the respective card readers.
The transactions were  initiated by a type of cyber-attack  that meant someone was able to 
remotely access Ss online portal and instruct these payments  in a way that looked like S 
itself was making them.  
Barclays says that if S had complied with the terms on how to use the relevant security  
technology then these transactions wouldnt have happened. And, having looked  through 
this guidance  and whats happened here, I think its fair for Barclays to say that.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  of Ss account with Barclays. These explain that S must 
do all it reasonably can to make sure that payment instruments are kept secure.  They go on 
to say that its important  that it follows any security instructions (including technical 
Ref: DRN19497833requirements) Barclays gives them. In the same terms and conditions, Barclays explains that 
S must follow the procedures and instructions in any user guidance that it gives in relation to 
particular services and authentication  devices.
The relevant  security instructions here are the Security  User  Guides  Barclays  sent S for the 
card readers in December 2013 and October  2015.  These guides  confirm that there  are 
security procedures that S needs to comply  with, otherwise they could be held responsible 
for unauthorised transactions.  I think this should have alerted S that it needed to be vigilant 
in how it used technology like the card readers  and made sure it used  them in line with the 
Security User Guides.
The guides  clearly explain that users must use the latest smart card readers. They  also 
explain that users should  always ensure that a smart card is removed from a reader when  
not being used to authorise a payment or perform an administrative function. Thats because 
leaving smart cards  in the readers could expose  customers to risk where someone could 
remotely access their computer   which is what happened here. 
Its worth  noting here that the guides specifically highlight when a customer  like S might  be 
liable for transactions on the account they didnt  authorise. It specifically references cyber-
attacks involving  remote access and the danger  of leaving smart cards in card readers. And 
its clear the customer will responsible for any transactions that take place  as a result.
Barclays records confirm it sent S new card readers in March  2014. Someone linked to S 
signed for these  to say theyd received them and confirmed to Barclays that S was using  
these in September 2014. Im satisfied  that S had access to new card readers and that it 
should have been using  these in line with the relevant security  guide Barclays  provided.
Barclays records show that S was using out of date card readers when the transactions 
happened, despite telling the bank otherwise. The schemes and tricks  people  use to steal 
money and trick people  into parting with are constantly changing, so its important  that 
customers ensure that they keep security measures  like the ones Barclays  provided  here as 
up to date as possible  and comply with the instructions on how to use the technology. The 
fact that S didnt  meant  that they were  particularly vulnerable to the kind of cyber-attack that 
happened here. Something Im satisfied would have most likely been  prevented had S been 
using the new card readers it had in its possession.
S would also have had to leave both cards in the readers for these transactions  to be carried 
out. This means S didnt  comply with the terms and conditions of Ss agreement with 
Barclays or the Security User Guides here either.  Had either of the two smart cards not been 
inserted the transactions  wouldnt  have  been  possible.
Barclays has also shown that, when logging in, S would regularly have been provided with a 
message  which had to be actively  acknowledged   that explains cards shouldnt be left in 
the readers when performing administrative functions or making payments. The fact that S 
left the cards  in the readers means I think that, again, it left itself vulnerable to the cyber-
attack.
The guidance that Ive seen here is geared  towards trying to avoid exactly the situation that 
happened here. That is, out of date card readers  being used when theyre vulnerable due to 
the passage of time and the cards  themselves being left in the readers when they shouldnt 
have been. I think  its reasonable  to expect that a business would take care to ensure that it 
was minimising any potential losses by following  the guides and advice. 
Ref: DRN19497834The fact that S not only didnt ensure that the card readers were up to date, but also kept the 
cards in the readers  means I think its been more  than just generally  negligent.  I think 
Barclays is acting fairly  by saying S has been grossly negligent and by not returning the 
money on this basis.
I dont find it was Barclays responsibility  to ensure S was using  the correct  technology.  It had 
provided everything to S along  with notifications and warnings about using the new PIN 
pads. And its true S even  confirmed to Barclays that it was using them. I dont believe the 
bank had to do more here.
Mr S has questioned why these transactions werent flagged as unusual. Hes specifically 
referred to unusual account  holder  names  and references. But I dont believe the bank ought 
to have done more here.  What our investigator  said is true: Barclays  wouldnt have checked 
the recipient names and references  being used and it wasnt  required to do so. 
And considering Ss normal account  activity,  the value of the individual  payments, and the 
fact its a business account  the payments dont appear particularly unusual. There  are often 
transactions in excess of £20,000 on the account. There  was a smaller payment of around 
£4,100 earlier in the month which is similar to each of the individual  payments made as part 
of the fraud.
I also think its important to consider just how the payments were made here as well. That 
has a bearing on their apparent authenticity to the bank. The bank received instructions to 
pay via its secure online  service. Those instructions appeared  to come from a customer  
whom had confirmed  they were  using the latest  PIN pad technology.  The instructions also 
appeared to be verified by two separate users,  on two different trusted computers and using 
two separate smart cards. And so there were strong indicators for the bank that the 
transactions were  being properly authorised. I dont find the bank ought to have been on 
notice that something  was wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1949783