K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside  a store card. 
background
Mrs D applied for a store  card in 1999. At the same time she was sold PPI. 
Mrs D complained that the PPI policy had been  mis-sold. FICL disagreed. 
FICL has said that Mrs D had the policy from February 1999  up until May 2003 when it was 
cancelled. It says Mrs D was charged a total of £210.90 in PPI premiums when using her 
store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint because:
Ive seen a copy  of her store card application  form. There is a separate section solely  for the 
PPI which  Mrs D has ticked to confirm she wanted PPI. Im satisfied that the form made  it 
clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose  to take it.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  FICL assessed  Mrs Ds individual  needs, such as her employee 
benefits in order  to make a formal recommendation for PPI, so I think  its unlikely that it did. 
This meant it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs D 
got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Mrs D was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look as if she was affected  by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about  the policy 
exclusions and limitations would have made any difference to Mrs Ds decision to take out 
PPI. 
Ref: DRN13802752The policy would have paid out a benefit if Mrs D couldnt work as a result of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. It would have covered 15% of what Mrs D owed  on the card at 
the point of claiming  and would have carried on paying this amount  each  month until Mrs D 
returned to work or the outstanding balance had been cleared.  It would  have also paid out 
on top of any sick pay Mrs D received. This could have been  a useful benefit at whats likely 
to have been a difficult time if Mrs D needed to claim.
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs D to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But I think  if Mrs D had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided she still would  have thought the policy potentially useful and Im 
satisfied that its likely she took it out when  she didnt have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Mrs D off taking out 
the policy, given  her situation at the time.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Mrs D all the information it should have done when 
it sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs D has lost out as a result  of anything that FICL did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1380275