K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr F says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
BoS should have given Mr F a choice about  buying the PPI. Mr F has said he never 
asked for the policy to be added to his account  and he says he had no recollection  of 
taking out the card in a branch which he hadnt visited  since  returning to the UK in 1998.
So Ive looked  at the paperwork  from the time to help me decide whether Mr F was given 
a fair choice. BoS has been able to provide  me with a copy of his credit  card application 
from the time. On it theres a section  with the heading Protecting your payments. A tick 
has been placed in the box to accept the cover and a signature has also been  added.  
The form has been signed and dated.  I think the form was completed  following a 
discussion with the BoS representative  and likely reflected the conversation  Mr F had at 
the meeting to take out the credit  card and the PPI. Overall, I think Bank of Scotland  
made Mr F aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it  although I can 
understand why he cant  recall this now after such a long time.
I think the PPI was taken out in a branch and I think BoS recommended  the PPI to Mr F. 
Mr F says no-one spoke about the PPI. But as a recommended sale, this placed more  
responsibility on BoS for how it sold the policy. So it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr F has told us that he would have received more than six months sick pay but less 
than 12 months and he had savings of around three months but less than six months of 
his pay. He also told us he had a policy to cover permanent disability which would have 
paid out 50% of his salary after six months.  But this wasnt the same as PPI. And this 
policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay he would have  received  from his 
employer and likely for longer  than his full sick pay would have lasted. And any savings 
he had could have  been used for other important expenses  if he lost his job or couldnt  
work. Mr F has also told us his wife could  have helped. But although I appreciate  his wife 
would have wanted to help this type of assistance cant  always  be guaranteed, 
particularly in the longer term as circumstances can change - so it doesnt  mean  the 
policy was unsuitable  for Mr F as it could have been  useful  if things  went  wrong.
BoS should have given Mr F enough information  so he could decide for himself  whether 
or not to take out the cover. He says he received no documentation for the policy and 
nothing was explained to him. I cant say what Mr F was told at the time. Its possible the 
information BoS gave him about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he 
chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.  And it seems like it 
Ref: DRN14631862would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said - including what  he has said about the 
handwriting on the form as well as the information about his salary  not being  his. But these 
points dont change  my decision.  I think  Mr F applied  for his credit card and the PPI at the 
same time. It could be that a BoS representative  completed the form on Mr Fs behalf.  But I 
think that was on balance likely after discussion  with Mr F and represented what he had 
instructed. To think otherwise, Id have to think BoS added the PPI without Mr Fs permission  
and I dont think thats likely. I also think the cover  would have appeared on his credit card 
statements. So if he wanted  to question it he could have done  so at any time. I havent seen 
that he has done so. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr F paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr F back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr F now Ive issued  my final decision if it hasnt done 
so already. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1463186