K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Co-operative Bank  plc (trading as Britannia)  mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium MPPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs H in 1996 
with a mortgage. The policy covered them both against unemployment, accidents and 
sickness. The first 12 months of premiums of the PPI policy was free. The policy and 
mortgage ended in 2005.
Mr and Mrs H say Britannia mis-sold the policy. They say they did not know they had the 
policy or that it was added.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
I have decided to not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs H during the meeting when it 
was sold to them by an advisor.  But Ive looked  at what  Mr and Mrs H have  said and also 
the sales documentation from that time.
Mr and Mrs H say they did not know they had the PPI policy  and it was added without 
their knowledge.  But based on what I know of how Britannia  sold policies at that time, I 
think they were given a choice to have it. 
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation I do have persuades  
me that the policy  was presented as optional. Britannia has provided a separate MPPI 
application form that would suggest  to me that Mr and Mrs H were most  likely given a 
choice by the advisor and they signed  the separate MPPI form agreeing to have it. 
Although I do have regard for what Mr and Mrs H have said,  recollections do fade over 
time. Based on the documentation I have  seen, I am persuaded they were  given a 
choice during the meeting. 
Moving on I need to decide whether or not Mr and Mrs H were  given  advice to have the 
PPI policy or not. If they were, Britannia would have needed to ensure the policy  was 
suitable for their needs.
I cant be sure if Mr and Mrs H were advised to have the PPI policy but I dont need to 
consider this as I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H anyway,  based  on what 
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr H says he had reasonable  sick pay with 
his employer (at least 6 months pay) and Mrs H would have most likely had sick pay as 
Ref: DRN12743062well but I consider the policy  would have been  useful in any extended period of sickness. 
They both could have  made a claim in addition to using the provisions they held at that 
time. I am persuaded  they would have found the benefit provided useful if they needed it. 
I also couldnt find anything else within  the policy terms that would have made  it 
unsuitable for them such as a restrictive  or significant term.
Britannia has provided some information  about the costs relating to the MPPI that         
Mr and Mrs H took out and although  I dont  know for sure if these were disclosed clearly,  
I dont think it would  have made  any difference to the choice Mr and Mrs H made even if 
it had for the reasons I have already  given.  The policy was reasonably priced compared  
to similar  policies available at the time and to the monthly  mortgage  repayment and      
Mr and Mrs H could have cancelled the MPPI  if it did become unaffordable.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, but in conclusion  I do not uphold  
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1274306