K820x#14Complaint
Miss M has complained that Legal & General Partnership Services Limited  failed to place 
policies she and the late Mr N had taken out under  trust.
Background
Miss M and the late Mr N took out individual decreasing term assurance policies in 
January 2015  to protect their capital repayment mortgage. The policies each  provided  an 
initial sum assured  of £98,000 over a term of 25 years.
Mr N was tragically killed in a road traffic  accident in October 2018. A claim was later 
submitted under his policy. Miss M expected  the claim payment to be issued to her, which  
she would  use to pay off the balance of the mortgage. But Legal and General explained 
Mr Ns policy  hadnt been written in trust and as hed died without having  made  a will, the 
sum assured was payable his estate. Under intestacy laws (the rules that apply when  
someone dies without  a valid will), this meant  Miss M and Mr Ns son, born in 2018,  would 
inherit the estate.  So, Legal and General explained Miss M would  need  to set up a trust for 
her son and it would pay the sum assured to this account.
Miss M and the representative of Mr Ns estate complained. But for ease Ill refer to Miss M 
throughout. Miss M said theyd asked for the policies  to be written in trust and said it was 
clearly their intention for the policies to pay off the balance of the mortgage  if either  of them  
passed away. Legal and General said it accepted what Miss M and Mr Ns intentions were  
and it could see theyd  indicated that they wanted  to write the policies in trust, but no trust 
forms had been  received.
Miss M referred  the complaint to our service.  Miss M said they wouldve returned the trust 
forms if theyd been  sent to them.  Miss M also explained Legal and Generals decision was 
causing her significant financial hardship as she was struggling  to pay the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought the evidence  showed Miss M and 
Mr N intended to write the policies in trust and that trust forms had been issued to them, but 
either they werent returned or received by Legal  and General. So, he didnt think he could 
say Legal and General had done anything  wrong.
Miss M said she was sure that she and Mr N signed  the trust forms and returned them. But if 
Legal and General hadnt received anything back,  she thought it owed them  a duty of care to 
check the forms had been received given their clear intention to place the policies in trust. 
Miss M added that she didnt recall the sales  representative warning  them at the time what  
would happen  if there wasnt a will or the policies werent written in trust.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first wish to say how sorry I am to hear of the tragic circumstances of Mr Ns death. I dont 
doubt how difficult this has been  for Miss M and her family. I appreciate  whats happened 
Ref: DRN16869022here has placed her under enormous financial and emotional strain, and while  I dont wish to 
add to her distress,  I dont think Legal and General  has treated her unfairly.  Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Miss M and Mr Ns intention was to take out term assurance  so that in 
the event of either of their deaths, their mortgage would be fully repaid. I also accept  that 
Miss M and Mr N wouldve  made  it clear  that they were the intended beneficiaries  of each  
others policies. However, as they chose to take out individual  policies,  they needed to make  
additional arrangements  so that the proceeds  of the policy would be payable  to the surviving 
partner. This could be in the form of a trust deed  or via a will.
Im satisfied that there was a conversation about  placing the policies  in trust because the 
paperwork at the time shows that Miss M and Mr N intended  to do this. Each  of their 
application forms makes  the following statement:
It is your intention  to place this product under trust. Any policy will not be placed under trust 
until a valid trust form was received.
Legal and General has also shown  that a trust form wouldve  been  issued to each of them. 
However, there is no evidence of the forms being  returned.
Miss M says she thinks she remembers signing and returning the forms. Even if I accept that 
she and Mr N returned the forms, I havent  seen  evidence  to persuade me that the forms 
were received by Legal and General. If the trust forms had been received, I think 
Legal and General wouldve acted  on this. Moreover, it wouldve confirmed to Miss M and 
Mr N in writing  that the policies had been placed under trust. But there isnt any record  to 
show that this happened.  In the absence of any confirmation that the trust forms had been  
received and acted  upon, I dont think Legal and General led Miss M and Mr N to believe the 
policies were under trust.
Miss M has said that Legal  and General owed them a duty of care to follow things up. But 
I dont think its reasonable to have expected  this. It wasnt necessary for the policies to be 
written in trust and Miss M and Mr N couldve changed their minds since the application.  The 
copy of the application forms they received also said the policies wouldnt be placed  under 
trust unless  a valid trust form was received. So, I think  they wouldve known it was their 
responsibility to make  the necessary arrangements.
Miss M has also questioned whether a third party wouldve issued the trust form on 
Legal and Generals behalf. If so, she questions whether we can be sure the forms were  
actually sent.  I havent  made any further enquiries about this because the crux of the matter 
is whether the forms were  returned  and received by Legal and General and Im not 
persuaded they were.
Ultimately, I think  Miss M and Mr N were made aware of what they needed to do to place the 
policies under trust. I appreciate  that whats happened leaves Miss M in a very difficult 
position, but I would encourage her to seek legal advice about her options  with regard to 
using the proceeds  of the policy to pay off her mortgage.
Ref: DRN16869023My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss M and the 
representatives of the estate of the late Mr N to accept or reject  my decision before 
6 December 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1686902