K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) paid out a third party  claim against  
her which she disputes.
background
Miss M had a car insurance  policy with esure.  A third-party insurer  (TPI) contacted esure  
and claimed that Miss M was driving a car on a petrol station forecourt and, whilst pulling 
away from the pump, Miss M collided with their clients car, causing damage.
esure contacted Miss M who gave her account about what  had happened.  She said that 
there had been  no contact  or collision between the two cars. So, esure disputed the claim to 
the TPI and asked for evidence of Miss Ms involvement. 
The TPI sent still CCTV images of the incident  to esure and asked it to inspect  the car 
Miss M had driven for damage. 
esure sent an engineer to inspect the car Miss M had driven for damage. The engineer 
reported back to esure  that there  were  several  areas of impact  damage on the car. So, esure 
decided to pay the third party claim and told Miss M its decision. 
Miss M was unhappy as she said esure  had settled  the claim without reviewing enough 
evidence. esure agreed and cancelled the payment to the TPI. It asked for images  of the 
damage to the third parties car and an engineers report on the damage. 
esure asked  its engineer  to review the TPIs engineers report. The engineer  said they didnt 
believe all the damage being claimed for by the TPI could have been caused  by Miss Ms 
car. The engineers  advice was for esure to get a revised repair  estimate based on his 
findings. 
The TPI then said to esure it would no longer pursue Miss M for the claim, as it had a 
different registration  mark recorded on their file. So, esure told Miss M that the file was 
closed. 
However, several months later the TPI contacted  esure  again  to say that Miss M was driving 
under a driving other cars condition of her policy and therefore the claim was correct to be 
made against esure. So, esure settled the claim for the full amount of the damage the TPI 
had claimed for. 
Miss M made a complaint  to esure,  as she was unhappy with its decision to settle  the claim 
and she maintained there was no collision. In response, esure said that it had relied on its 
engineers report  to settle the claim as it saw fit. esure said it had exercised its judgement  
legitimately and fairly in Miss Ms case and so they didnt uphold  her complaint.
Miss M didnt agree and so brought her complaint to us, also saying that esure  had 
contacted her during a period when she had asked  them not to.
I sent Miss M and esure my provisional findings  on 13 March  2020. In my provisional 
findings I said that esure hadnt conducted  a reasonable  investigation  as it appeared that the 
third partys  claim  may have been exaggerated.  Because of this I was minded to say esure  
should pay Miss M £200 for the distress and inconvenience that caused.  
Ref: DRN10493422my provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said;
I appreciate that Miss M would like me to make a finding  about her involvement in the 
collision. However,  my role isnt to decide if the collision occurred or who was at fault but its 
to decide if esure have  handled the claim in a fair and reasonable way. 
When Miss M disputed the claim esure  passed on this dispute to the TPI and asked for 
evidence. The TPI initially sent over still CCTV images before later acknowledging that they 
didnt have the full CCTV video. esure didnt request the CCTV footage itself from the 
garage, as it said several weeks had passed  since the collision, so it was unlikely that the 
CCTV was still available.  I think it was reasonable for esure to initially think  the TPI had the 
CCTV video, as they had already been sent still images from it. But having been  told the TPI 
didnt have it, esure could have  still made enquiries into whether the CCTV was still available  
before discounting  it.  
The CCTV images showed the car Miss M was driving to be in very close  proximity to the 
TPIs car and so I think it was fair for esure  to send out an engineer  to check for damage on 
Miss Ms car. The engineer noted damage  on the car, however he did suggest an inspection 
of the TPIs car to see if there was any consistent damage between  the two cars involved. 
But, Esure didnt ask for the TPI report and said they would settle the claim at that point. 
Miss Ms partner raised his concerns with esure,  as Miss M didnt think  a thorough  
investigation had taken place. esure acknowledged  it hadnt  asked for the TPIs report and 
cancelled the payment.  Although esure acknowledged its error and corrected it before 
Miss M suffered any loss at that point, I can see why Miss M lost some trust in esure.  
When esure received  the TPIs report of the other  cars damage they sent it to an engineer 
for their opinion. The engineer concluded that some of the damage was consistent with the 
collision, but some wasnt. They suggested that esure ask for a revised estimate from the 
TPI with only the consistent damage on. But esure didnt do this.
Instead, the TPI told esure that they would stop pursuing Miss M for this claim, as they had a 
different registration  number for the car involved.  But Miss M had told esure the registration 
of the car she was driving, so it wouldnt  have  been  unreasonable for esure to check  this 
with her and go back to the TPI. This meant that once the TPI realised its mistake four 
months later, the TPI continued their claim against  Miss M. Miss M is unhappy  that she was 
told by esure  that the claim was closed, only for it to then be settled several  months later. I 
can see why this upset  Miss M and could have been avoided.  And I dont think  esure  had a 
choice in re-opening the case, as Miss M had already acknowledged her presence at the 
scene of the collision. 
But esure didnt  act on their engineers opinion that the TP claim was possibly exaggerated  
in that the TP was claiming for some damage  which wasnt consistent with the collision. 
esure have  said that there wasnt any suggestion  that the TP was being fraudulent. And the 
areas of damage  claimed for may have come  from an estimator  not realising that all the 
damage was part of the claim. Although this may be the case, esure  didnt act in Miss Ms 
best interests - In that it didnt investigate whether or not this was a fraudulent  claim.
Ref: DRN10493423As esure didnt properly  investigate whether this was a fraudulent claim at the time, it makes 
it difficult to now know if this would  have had any impact on the outcome of the claim. 
Had esure investigated the exaggeration  and proved it to be fraudulent,  then it may have led 
to a nil payment bonus allowed (non-fault) claim recorded on the claims and underwriting  
exchange (CUE). 
But, esure settled  the claim for all of the damage  and recorded  the total value of the claim on 
CUE, noting it was bonus disallowed (fault). I wont speculate whether the TPs claim was 
fraudulent, and I appreciate it may have been  difficult for esure to prove. But because  esure  
didnt investigate this important aspect of the claim I can understand why Miss M felt that 
esure hadnt done all it could to dispute the claim.  
Regardless of what the potential  outcome of fraud  investigation could have been, esure have 
acknowledged they should  have  settled the claim for less than they did. As it didnt take its 
engineers advice and only settle  the part of the claim consistent with the collision. 
esure must record on CUE the amount it has paid to settle  a claim  regardless of whether it 
paid what it should  have done. esure have said that this figure isnt a rating factor for them  
when deciding premiums,  but this may not be the case for every insurer.  Miss M has clearly 
been caused considerable distress by esure  not properly  investigating  her claim and then 
the claim being recorded on CUE with a higher  settlement figure than it should  have. 
Especially, as Miss M has strongly  denied  colliding  with the TPs car throughout the claim 
and bearing in mind  the TP claim may have been exaggerated.
Miss M hasnt been able to evidence any direct financial  loss due to the amount recorded on 
CUE, but I think a reasonable outcome for this complaint  is for esure  to compensate  Miss M 
for the distress it has caused her by not properly investigating the TP claim. Therefore, I 
think esure should pay Miss M £200 to reflect  the distress it has caused.  
Miss M has also said that esure contacted her after she had told them she was unavailable. 
Ive reviewed esures contact notes.  These  show that Miss M emailed esure in September  to 
say that she wasnt  available  until mid-October. There  arent any further  notes of contact 
until Miss M called esure in mid-October. The notes seem to document all other  contact 
made with Miss M, so Im not persuaded that esure contacted Miss M during the period she 
asked them not to. 
responses to my provisional  findings
esure havent provided any further  comments for me to consider. 
Miss M has provided a further account  in relation to the contact esure made with her when 
shed asked them not to. Miss M says that, in early September she became aware of the 
third parties claim from her partners  insurer. So, she contacted  esure to let them  know  that a 
claim was likely to be made against  her. Miss M says that she made a further phone call to 
esure in late September to inform them that she was going out of the country, and asked 
esure not to contact  her until she was due to return.  Miss M says that esure said they would 
make a note of this. However, esure then contacted Miss M several times whilst she was 
abroad. Miss M has provided a copy of an email she sent esure on 3 October  2017  telling 
them she was still abroad and would contact them on her return.  
Ref: DRN10493424my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also re-considered  my provisional 
findings.
Miss M has provided a further account  of why she believes esure contacted  her when shed  
asked them not to. I havent seen  any records from either esure or Miss M that confirm 
Miss M contacted esure in late September to tell them that she was going abroad. 
However, the email  Miss M sent in early October  references that she called esure the 
previous week and informed them she was going abroad.  It also informs esure that Miss M 
wasnt contactable about the claim, confirms the date of her return to the UK, and that she 
was happy to discuss the matter then.
I think this email shows its likely  that Miss M did contact esure  in late September,  asking 
them not to contact her whilst she was abroad. As the email  was written near to the time of 
the call and is consistent with Miss Ms account.  
esures contact records show that they contacted Miss M a few times during this period, 
calling her twice and leaving voice messages, as well as sending two text messages. 
This led to Miss M having to email  esure  to remind  them that she wasnt  available  to discuss 
the claim.  I can appreciate that sending  an email, when shed already said she wasnt  
available was an added inconvenience. But overall,  I dont think  this significantly changed 
the level of inconvenience Miss M suffered. Ill explain  why.
Miss M already expected  esure to be contacted by the third party to make a claim against 
her. So, I dont think it would have been  a surprise to Miss M when esure informed her that 
the claim had been made. And esures level of contact was minimal; this was through  two 
voicemails and two text messages. Esure also wrote to Miss M but she wouldnt have 
received that until she got home,  so I dont think that made  a difference.  In the end, all Miss 
M did was send a short email to esure  which wouldnt have taken much  time. And given that, 
I dont think this oversight  increased the level of inconvenience that Miss M suffered to the 
extent that I think its fair to increase the award Ive already suggested.  
Neither esure nor Miss M made any further  comments on the rest of my provisional  decision. 
So, I see no reason  to depart from the findings Ive already reached in in regards to esures  
handling of the claim.  Therefore, my decision remains  the same  and esure should pay Miss 
M £200  to reflect the distress and inconvenience  it has caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained and those set out in my provisional decision.  I partly uphold 
the complaint.  I direct  esure Insurance Limited to pay Miss M;
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its failure to investigate  the third 
party claim properly and contacting  Miss M when asked not to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Ref: DRN10493425Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1049342