K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited (Red Sands) 
declined a claim for veterinary treatment  for her pet dog, despite previously telling her the 
treatment had been authorised.
background
Mrs Ss dog had problems with a growth in its mouth in January 2018.  In August 2018, Mrs S 
noticed that the growth had been  rapidly  increasing  in size and was causing some 
discomfort and a change  to her dogs behaviour. Mrs Ss daughter took the dog to the vet 
who operated to remove the lump.
On the day the operation was carried out, Mrs S called Red Sands to discuss the treatment. 
Red Sands  explained that the vet would need  to send  in the paperwork showing details of 
the claim and the final cost of the treatment.  
On receipt of the claim form from the vet Red Sands  declined Mrs Ss claim. It said the 
diagnosis of Oral Epulis was excluded under the terms of the policy, as it related to dental or 
gum treatment. 
Mrs S says that during the call she made before the treatment was carried out, although she 
was reminded of the exclusion in question, she was told the treatment had been  authorised.  
Red Sands  disagrees  with what Mrs S has said, stating that its agent gave no guarantee that 
the treatment was covered.
Our investigator looked into everything  and thought that Red Sands decision to decline the 
claim was fair. He said that because he agreed  that the treatment was excluded under  the 
terms of the policy. But he recommended  that Red Sands should pay Mrs S £200 because  
the information it told her wasnt  as clear as it couldve been,  and he thought Red Sands had 
given her false hope that the treatment would  be covered.
Red Sands  didnt agree. So as the complaint  hasnt  been resolved,  it has been passed  to me 
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two points for me to consider here; firstly whether  the claim was fairly declined, 
and secondly  whether  Red Sands gave  Mrs S an unfair expectation of cover by giving  her 
the wrong information during the phone call.
Was Red Sands right to decline  Mrs Ss claim?
The clinical  notes from Mrs Ss vet clearly refer  a number of times  to the growth in 
Mrs Ss dogs  mouth as being gum-related.  The clinical notes from January 2018  make 
reference to Premolars  / canine large epulus  growth and the notes from August 2018 name 
the growth as a benign peripheral odontogenic  fibroma. The claim form sent to Red Sands 
by the vet diagnoses the condition as Oral Epulis.
Ref: DRN12508222I should stress that I am not a vet and nor do I have specialist veterinary knowledge, but 
having researched  this condition, it appears  that an epulis is a growth which  occurs  on the 
gums or supporting structures of the teeth. So Im satisfied that this is a dental or gum-
related problem.
With this in mind, Ive considered the policy, and in particular, the exclusion that Red Sands  
has referred to. Under the Exclusions  section is the following:
The following  are excluded from cover:
1.3.9 Any dental  or gum treatment including root canal treatment.
Im satisfied that Mrs Ss dogs treatment was not covered by her insurance policy as it is 
excluded under the policys exclusions as its a condition related to the dogs gums. So 
Red Sands decision  to decline the claim was fair.
Did Red Sands give Mrs S the wrong  or misleading information when she called to discuss 
the claim?
Ive listened to a recording  of the call that Mrs S made to Red Sands before her dogs 
treatment was carried out.
The call starts with Mrs S explaining the dogs condition  the fact that a tumour  in its mouth 
had suddenly grown and needed  to be removed. She also explained  that the dog needed 
some dental  work to be done, and this was going to be done during the same operation, but 
she knew this wasnt covered under her policy so shed pay for that part of the operation 
herself.
There was some discussion  about  the location  of the tumour,  and the advisor tried to 
establish whether  the tumour was located on the dogs gum. Mrs S explained that she didnt 
know exactly, and the advisor  let her know that the policy doesnt cover gum treatment, 
which Mrs S appeared  to understand.
Later in the call, during  more discussion about the tumour, the advisor says If the tumour is 
cancerous, we can look to review that condition.  He goes on to say We would look to 
review that for you because it is cancerous.  Its important to note that at this stage, neither 
the advisor nor Mrs S knew whether the tumour was cancerous as it hadnt  been removed 
and tested. 
Towards the end of the call, after discussing the claims process, the advisor says What  we 
can do is we can add authorisation for your vets if you want, so if they do wish to call us []
they can.
Mrs S clarifies So they can get authorisation?  to which the advisor answers Yeah, 
absolutely.
Taking everything into account,  Im not persuaded that Red Sands  wrongly  or intentionally 
told Mrs S that her dogs  treatment was covered under her policy.  But it also didnt  do 
enough to let her know that the treatment  most  likely wasnt  covered, especially bearing in 
mind her apparent misunderstanding. 
Ref: DRN12508223I accept that the discussion  around  giving the vet authorisation most likely  related to 
Mrs Ss vet being able to discuss the claim with Red Sands. But I dont think  Red Sands 
made that clear enough  and I dont  think thats what Mrs S understood. The fact that the 
adviser had previously assumed the tumour was cancerous and said Red Sands would 
review the claim on more than one occasion,  plus the comment  around  authorisation,  
gave Mrs S false hope that her claim would be covered when it most likely wouldnt. 
So having  considered everything, I dont think Red Sands wrongly declined Mrs Ss claim. 
But it did give her an unfair expectation of cover. And when  she found the claim wasnt in 
fact covered,  she was understandably caused some trouble and upset, having  previously  
being led to believe  her claim had been  authorised.
It follows that I uphold  this complaint in part and I require Red Sands to pay Mrs S £200 in 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to put things right by paying Mrs S £200 in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1250822