K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains, in summary,  about  the way NewDay Ltd has dealt with him after a direct 
debit payment to his Aqua credit  card account  was not paid by his bank.
Background
In June 2018, Mr Cs bank did not pay a direct debit which was due to be credited to his 
credit card account  for which NewDay charged Mr C £12.  Mr C continued to use the card, 
and he exceeded  his agreed credit  limit  resulting in additional fees,  interest, and adverse 
credit information being  recorded against  Mr Cs name with the credit reference agencies.
NewDays position is that it wrote to Mr C as soon as the direct  debit  had not been paid, and 
several times subsequently.  But Mr C says he didnt know  what  had happened because  he 
only received the fourth letter  sent on 30 July 2018, which reached him on 8 August 2018.  
Mr C asked NewDay to waive fees and interest  for the amount he owed in excess  of the 
agreed credit limit, and to remove the adverse credit information.   But all NewDay was 
prepared to do was to refund one £12 fee.  It also then terminated Mr Cs credit agreement.
Mr C had further, and continuing, concerns about  NewDay.   But because  NewDays final 
response letter did not cover them our investigator  did not think  we could look into those  
further concerns  as part of our review of this complaint.  
On the earlier issues, the investigator did not recommend  that the complaint should be 
upheld.  In summary, he was satisfied  that NewDay had written to Mr C as it had said it did, 
and could not fairly be held responsible if he did not receive the earlier  letters.  The 
investigator also noted that Mr C was registered to receive email statements, along  with 
being set up to receive text and email notifications   so he might  nevertheless  reasonably 
have seen what had happened with the direct debit.  In addition,  although  Mr C had 
suggested he should not have been  permitted to exceed his agreed  credit limit, the 
investigator noted that not all payments have to be authorised by the credit card provider.  
He further felt that NewDay  had not acted  incorrectly  in reporting factually accurate 
information to the credit  reference agencies.
Mr C did not accept the investigators  conclusions.  He  said, in summary:
-Copy letters are not enough to prove that letters  were sent;  NewDay should be required 
to provide proof of postage.
-His statement of 10 July would  not have shown  the relevant  charges.
-He exceeded  his credit limit by more than £600,  which should not have been permitted  
and he asked to see where in his credit agreement it provided  for some payments not to 
be authorised by the credit card provider.
-He was particularly  concerned that the investigator had not considered  later events;  his 
correspondence with NewDay (and us) specifically raised them,  but he considers they 
were overlooked in the final response letter.
The investigator made further enquiries  of NewDay and  after some delay in receiving a 
substantive response   provided Mr C with additional information/explanations.  In  
responding, and along  with re-emphasising the settlement proposal he had previously  put 
forward, Mr C asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN16878762My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Where necessary or appropriate, I reach 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider  is most likely to have 
happened in light of the evidence that is available and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
In my view, this complaint centres  on two main issues:
-the extent to which NewDay went about telling  Mr C, in a timely way, about the unpaid 
direct debit  and its immediate consequences; and
-whether or not NewDay should  once the position had become known to Mr C  have 
taken a different  approach towards  him, including its response to the settlement proposal 
he put forward.
On the first of these,  Mr C would  like NewDay to prove that it wrote to him (by, for example, 
providing proof of postage),  and I acknowledge the point he makes about fairness for both 
parties.  However, in the absence of there being  any proof  of postage   which,  in general, 
I would not expect a financial business to be required to provide   the appropriate  approach 
is to consider the other evidence that is available.  Here, NewDays records (which I see no 
reason to view as either incorrect or inaccurate)  show that it wrote four letters  to Mr C, all of 
which were correctly addressed.  I believe I can fairly conclude, on balance,  that those  
letters were sent, even if only the fourth of them was received  and I do not see that I can 
reasonably hold NewDay liable for any earlier correctly-addressed letters not reaching  Mr C.
It is also for the customer to ensure there is enough money available in his account to meet 
any payments, such as the direct debit from Mr Cs bank to his credit card account.   Overall 
therefore, whether  or not there were other means  by which he might have been  alerted to 
the payment not being made, ultimately I am unable to accept that NewDay should  fairly be 
held responsible for the consequences  of the delay  in Mr C finding out the payment  had not 
been made until he received the fourth letter.
It is a matter of general financial  business  practice  that not all card payments  and not 
necessarily just smaller payments  are referred to the card issuer  before they are made.   
This practice  is, indeed,  sometimes welcomed  by customers   those who would prefer their 
payments to be made rather than having  to deal with the consequences of them being 
declined.  But, either way, and looking at this in a slightly different light, Mr C wanted to 
make payments using  his card,  and those payments were made.  So, here again,  I find I am 
unable to accept  that it was wrong  for NewDay to have allowed Mr Cs card balance  to have 
exceeded the credit limit in the way that it did, or that it would not have expected  him to 
repay his resultant card balance in accordance with the terms and conditions of his account.
The most significant overall  issue for Mr C, though, is what happened after the non-payment 
of the direct  debit came  to light  in summary,  the adverse credit  information which  NewDay 
provided to the credit  reference agencies, and his view that NewDay did not (and continues 
not to) co-operate with him to find an acceptable way forward  in respect of the outstanding 
debt.
On the first of these  points, the account did fall into arrears  and it exceeded the agreed 
limit.  That is what NewDay  reported,  so I share the investigators view that it would  not be 
appropriate for me to require NewDay to remove information which was factually correct.  
Mr C has described the impact of this adverse information  on him as a company director   
Ref: DRN16878763but the fact remains  that the information which NewDay reported reflected what  had 
happened.  The position has, of course, persisted  because agreement has not been 
reached over the outstanding debt.  NewDay has since sold it on to another financial 
business (for the avoidance of any doubt, I cannot consider the actions of that other 
business as part of this complaint against  NewDay).   
I do take Mr Cs point  that NewDay has not always reacted as quickly  as both he, and this 
service, might have wished (this includes the time NewDay took to respond to questions 
which the investigator put to it).  However, the underlying  position  remains  that Mr Cs 
account fell into arrears  initially  through the non-payment of the direct  debit  and he has 
not since brought the debt up-to-date.  And whilst  I acknowledge that Mr C did put forward  a 
repayment proposal some time ago  which he has since  repeated  that involved not only 
the refund  of fees and interest and the removal of adverse credit information  but it entailed  
repayment being made over time.   In other  words,  even though Mr C considers that NewDay  
escalated the matter unnecessarily and it should  have accepted his repayment proposal  
because it was for more  than the usual minimum monthly repayment, its not for me to say 
that NewDay should have accepted that proposal if  when taken as a whole  it did not 
consider it appropriate to do so.  With that in mind, I cannot see a reasonable basis  for me to 
determine these  ongoing issues in Mr Cs favour.  In any event, it has always been open to 
him to make  payments to reduce/repay the debt at any time to limit/reduce the ongoing 
effects on him of his credit card account falling into arrears. 
My final decision
I recognise that Mr C is likely to be disappointed by my conclusions   and, as Ive explained, 
I do understand his frustrations.  However,  for the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision 
is that I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1687876