K821x#15complaint
Mr C says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 5 loans MYJAR provided to Mr C between  February  2016  and July 
2018. Mr Cs loans  were  for between  £325 and £1350.  From what  I can see, Mr C has a 
balance outstanding on his final loan.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint in part and thought loans 3 to 5 shouldnt  have 
been given because Mr C was showing signs that he was in difficulty managing  his money.  
MYJAR disagreed and said it wasnt clear that the adjudicator had reviewed all of the 
information it had sent and there was a lack of reasoning in the view. So the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN17265882Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  
MYJAR asked Mr C for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr C said his income  was between £2500 and £3000  and his outgoings were 
£800. MYJAR has set out in detail exactly what its checks entailed at various  points during 
Mr Cs borrowing history. 
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. From what  I can see, there wasnt anything in the information Mr C provided  
or the information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what Mr C was saying. So I cant say MYJAR was wrong  to 
have provided  loans one and two. Mr C hasnt  objected to the adjudicators conclusions in 
relation to these  two loans so I dont think I need  to say anything  more about them.
At the point of loan 3 I think the business should have looked more  closely  at Mr Cs 
finances given  his borrowing pattern. By loan 3, Mr C had had only recently finished paying 
off loan 2 which was taken out straight after paying  loan 1. Mr C had been  making  
repayments for 10 months and was asking to borrow again. So MYJAR ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr C was having  to borrow further  to cover the hole 
repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances. Mr Cs borrowing pattern was at odds  
with the amount of disposable  income he had declared. If MYJAR had carried  out further 
checks at the point of loan 3 it would have seen that this loan was unsustainable for Mr C as 
he was borrowing from other payday lenders.
The situation  is the same  for loan 4. A few days after repaying loan 3 Mr C asked to borrow  
£1350 over 12 months. Although the repayment  was less than loan 2 I think  it should have 
been clear to MYJAR that Mr C was in difficulty  and was overly using short term credit.  Mr 
Cs position didnt  improve  for loan 5. Although there  was a gap between repaying  loan 4 
and taking out loan 5 I dont consider that it was long enough to break the chain of lending 
so that MYJAR  could  conclude any difficulties had passed. Mr C was still relying on short 
term credit  and was eventually unable to repay what he had borrowed.  I think  better checks 
at the point of loan 3 would have shown this.  
So I think that MYJAR shouldnt have given  Mr C loans 3 to 5.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
Ref: DRN17265883charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest on the individual payments made  by Mr C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr C as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr C having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. MYJAR should then refund  the amounts calculated  in "A" and "B" and move 
to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then MYJAR  should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr C.
E.Remove any adverse  information about loans  3, 4 and 5 from Mr Cs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1726588