K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Richmond Cars  Ltd (trading as Richmond Hyundai) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in December  2007. She bought the PPI when she 
was arranging finance to buy a car. 
background
Mrs C complained that the PPI wasnt suitable. 
One of our adjudicators made a finding  that Richmond Cars were  responsible for the sale of 
the policy. And because  Richmond Cars  later said the complaint had been brought to us too 
late, another adjudicator  looked into this and said the complaint had in fact been made in 
time. An ombudsman  issued a decision agreeing with this. 
Having looked  into what most likely happened when  the PPI was sold,  another  adjudicator 
looked into the merits of the complaint and was of the opinion that the PPI had been 
mis-sold. 
In my provisional decision dated  11 April 2019  I looked at two questions:
1.On the question of whether Richmond Cars was responsible for the sale of the PPI, I 
provisionally decided  that it was. Having  looked at all the available  information and 
evidence, I thought it was likely that it had had some  involvement  in the sale of the PPI, 
taking into account that it was part of its sales process to sell PPI and given that Mrs C 
recalled being  sold PPI  by Richmond  Cars.  I also saw there was a record  of Richmond  
Cars having been paid some commission that looked consistent  with having sold PPI. 
2.On the question of whether the PPI was mis-sold, I provisionally didnt think  it was. 
Although I could see there  was limited information available about how the sale had 
happened, I took into account that Mrs C remembered  buying  it and had been  sent 
details of some of the premiums shed paid. And given her that she was eligible for the 
cover, wasnt affected by any of the main  policy limitations or exclusions and wasnt 
entitled to any sick pay in her job, I found that the PPI was most likely  suitable for her. 
And although there may have  been  some shortcomings in the way information about the 
PPI was provided to her, I thought she still would have gone ahead and taken out the 
cover even  if shed been  better  informed. 
developments
Mrs C confirmed receiving my provisional  decision but had nothing  to add.
The representative for Richmond Cars confirmed receiving my provisional decision and 
requested the screenshot evidence Id seen relating to commission. This was provided.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN13873732complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Given that neither  party  has provided  me with any additional evidence  or information, I will 
be making a final decision  that is in line with my provisional findings. It follows that, whilst I 
consider Richmond Cars to be responsible for the sale of the PPI to Mrs C, I dont think  it 
was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that although Richmond Cars Ltd is 
responsible for the sale, it did not mis-sell the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1387373