K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained to Barclays  Bank  UK PLC about a default marker  that was added to 
his credit file after his account  became overdrawn.  He says it was added in error and the 
consequences of the default  have had a huge impact on his life.
background
Mr W held an account with Barclays which included a tech pack, the charge for which  was 
taken from the account on a monthly  basis. When Mr W stopped  using in the account  in 
2016, payments  for the tech pack continued  to be taken. This led to the account becoming 
overdrawn and ultimately, Barclays defaulted the account in June 2017 and placed  a marker 
on Mr Ws credit file reflecting this. 
Mr W complained  to Barclays  after he noticed the default marker in October  2018.  He said 
the default had meant  that hed been  declined for credit many  times, it had left him unable  to 
get a mortgage and had caused the breakdown  of his relationship. He also said that he 
believed it had also caused him to be turned down for jobs that hed applied  for after credit 
checks had been  carried out. 
Initially when Barclays reviewed the complaint it didnt  think  it had done anything  wrong.  But 
it reviewed matters again in January 2019 and said that it wouldnt usually apply a default to 
an account if the debt only related to outstanding fees and charges, as was the case  with 
Mr Ws account. So it agreed  to remove the default marker from Mr Ws credit file. It also 
offered Mr W £100 for the inconvenience caused to him. 
Mr W was unhappy with Barclays  response  to his complaint.  He said hed like £10,000 
compensation for the distress  this matter has caused.
One of our investigators  reviewed matters and thought  that Barclays  had done enough to put 
things right. But Mr W disagreed so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Id firstly  like to say that I am sorry to hear of the impact this matter has had on Mr W. I 
appreciate that being declined for credit can cause considerable stress and worry. 
Barclays has explained that although  Mr Ws account went into arrears, it wouldnt usually 
default an account if the arrears relates solely to fees and charges. That was the case in this 
instance, so Im pleased  to see that Barclays removed the default marker on Mr Ws credit 
file. It also offered Mr W £100 in compensation. However,  Mr W doesnt believe this is 
enough to put matters  right. So this is what Ive considered further.
Ive fully reviewed the information contained  in Mr Ws credit file but Im not satisfied the 
default marker was the sole reason he was declined for credit throughout the period in 
question. I say this because  Ive noted  that in addition to the default, there was other 
adverse information  on Mr Ws credit file. 
Ref: DRN17802572I know Mr W said that he was late making payments after he was unable to get an overdraft 
due to the default. But I can also see that prior to the default  marker being applied, Mr W 
was late in making payments, or missed payments completely, on two occasions on his loan. 
Im also conscious that the lender that financed this loan provides short  term, high cost 
finance. And some other finance providers wouldnt be willing  to lend based solely  on that 
type of credit  being taken. I think its likely the missed or late payments on this loan would 
have impacted Mr Ws ability to obtain  finance.  
It also appears that there may have  been  times during the relevant  period where  Mr W was 
not registered on the electoral role. This again is something that can have  a bearing on an 
individuals ability to obtain finance. So for these reasons I cant say for certain  that the 
default marker was the only reason Mr W was declined for credit. 
However, its not in dispute that Barclays did make  mistakes. Mr W has said that he notified  
Barclays several months before the default was added that he was no longer living at the 
address it had on its records. But he said he was unable to provide a new address as he 
was living  between different friends. So he asked Barclays  to communicate with him via 
email. But Ive not seen anything  to suggest that any emails were  sent to Mr W notifying him 
that the default was being  applied.   
Whilst I acknowledge that Barclays made  mistakes, I dont think this means that its 
responsible for the knock on effect  Mr Ws credit report may have  had on Mr Ws personal 
life. 
I say this because  Mr W couldve  taken action  much sooner to mitigate the impact  this 
situation may have  had on him. However,  he continued to apply for credit  after his first 
declined application,  despite the lender  explaining  how he could check  his credit report. In 
fact it appears Mr W failed  to check his credit report until October 2018, more  than a year 
after his first declined  application. And after numerous other lenders had declined  his 
applications and advised him how to check his credit report. 
If Mr W had obtained a copy of his credit report when his first application was declined in 
October 2017, he wouldve discovered the problem sooner  and could have given Barclays  
the opportunity  to remove the default marker  at that point. 
Im also conscious that although Mr W has said he no longer  used the account, it was still 
open, so I think  he had a responsibility to check it regularly. Had he done this, he would have 
realised that it was overdrawn and he could have  raised this with Barclays.  
I do appreciate how strongly  Mr W feels about  this matter but Im not recommending  that 
Barclays pays compensation in the region that hes requested as I do think  this matter could 
have been bought to its attention sooner. And had this been done, the default would have 
only been showing for a matter  of months, rather than a year.  And, as Ive explained  above,  
Im not satisfied that the default was the only reason Mr W wouldve had all his applications  
for finance declined.  
However, I have asked Barclays to increase its offer of compensation to £250 in total as it 
did make  a mistake and I feel this better reflects the inconvenience caused for the default 
being incorrectly added. Barclays has also offered to refund the payments taken for the tech 
pack which I think is fair. This comes  to a total of £133. 
Ref: DRN17802573my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to pay Mr W a total of £383 (broken  down as £250  for the trouble and upset caused, and 
£133 for the refund of the charges for the tech pack).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1780257