K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt pay her claim for her dogs vets 
fees under  a pet insurance policy. Mr B is a representative of his wife in this matter.
References to Aviva  include its agents.
background
In November 2016, Mrs B took out pet insurance for their dog with Aviva.  
In September  2018, the dog saw the vet and was diagnosed with infected anal glands. He 
was treated and Mrs B claimed the vets fees under  the policy  with Aviva.
The policy summary  includes  the following:
We will pay:
- The costs for treatment  of the insured pet by a vet for injury or illness including 
alternative and/or complementary treatment carried out under your vet's instruction.
We will not pay claims for:
Pre-existing injuries  or illnesses (unless  agreed by us in writing).
 
The relevant  policy terms say:
We will not pay:
Any claim for a pre-existing condition.
The following  terms are defined in the policy:
Pre-existing condition - Any illness or injury (or associated symptoms),  whether 
diagnosed or not by a vet, which occurred prior to the start date of this policy.
Illness - Physical disease, sickness or infection  suffered  by your pet and diagnosed 
by a vet.
Injury - Physical  damage or trauma to your pet caused by a sudden  and unforeseen 
accident.
The information the vets initially sent to Aviva to support the costs to be reimbursed included  
the costs incurred since March 2016 for emptying the dogs anal glands on numerous 
occasions as well as the cost of treating them  when they became infected in 2018. Mrs B 
says this was an mistake made by the vets - she understands that the cost of emptying the 
anal glands wont  be covered. But shes unhappy that Aviva didnt get in touch with her to 
discuss this as she couldve resolved matters with the vets.
Aviva declined the claim. In its final response letter it said this was due to the vets notes from 
30 December 2015 and that anal glands  had been  a continuous problem since  then. As the 
policy didnt start until November 2016,  it said the anal gland  condition is pre-existing to the 
policy. And, as there were continual anal gland issues  throughout the dogs medical history, 
an infection was likely  to happen.
Ref: DRN15434762In support of Mrs Bs claim,  the vets issued a letter which says,
I would  like to confirm  that Billy has been  seen  in the past for full Anal Glands but not 
infected glands.
I hope this helps with your enquiries.
Please do not hesitate to contact me if I can be of further assistance in this matter.
Aviva reviewed its decision to decline the claim but didnt change its mind  so Mrs B 
complained to it. Aviva didnt uphold their complaint and so she came to our service. 
Mr and Mrs B dont  agree this was a pre-existing condition - they say the dog hasnt had 
infected anal glands before. Whilst they accept he has previously suffered from full or 
impacted anal glands, they say this condition isnt an illness as the glands can be emptied by 
the pet owner, they choose not to do it themselves.
To put things right, they want Aviva to pay the amount theyve paid for vets fees for 
treatment and hospitalisation  of their dog as a result of the infected  anal glands plus a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation for the unnecessary work theyve had to do.
Our investigator initially reviewed matters  and thought Aviva had fairly declined  the claim. 
This matter was then passed to me for a decision.  I contacted both parties to let them know  
my view was different. I intended to uphold this complaint  and require Aviva  to assess  the 
claim as well as pay an amount for distress and inconvenience in this matter.  This is 
because I thought that, when looking at the definition of what  a pre-existing condition  is 
under the policy,  I couldnt see that blocked anal glands would be caught by the definition in 
the policy of what  an injury or an illness  is. And it follows  that infected anal glands  wouldn't 
fall into the category of an associated symptom of an injury  or illness either. As such, I 
didnt agree the claim had been declined in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs B accepted this. But Aviva  didnt and raised a number of points as follows.
1.The dictionary  definition of illness is,
sickness, disease, ailment, disorder, complaint, malady, affliction, attack, infection, 
contagion, disability,  indisposition
So the wording  in the policy supports the decline of the claim - infected glands would 
be categorised as an illness and repeatedly filling anal glands,  which  needs  
veterinary treatment, would reasonably  be described as a condition. 
2.The medical history notes from 13 January 2016  say, 
Both anal glands  very full, anus all puffy again.  Spoke to BM and advise admit for 
flush anal glands  and as not able to come in till next week to give injection to take 
inflammation down.
So Aviva said the vet is saying a week's  delay in flushing out will require  an injection 
to take down inflammation and the only cause of that inflammation would be 
infection. It cant reasonably be said that the repeated  filling and draining of the 
glands is disassociated to the infection.
3.The vet refers to it as condition.
Ref: DRN15434763my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ive also taken into account the comments Ive received since  I sent both parties my 
provisional opinion  in this matter. Having  done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set 
out previously and for the same  reasons.  It follows that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in 
this matter. 
Turning now to some of the specific points raised  by Aviva.  
Ive explained  in the background  why I dont agree that blocked  anal glands  falls into the 
specific definition of a pre-existing  condition used by Aviva  in this policy.
I can appreciate what Aviva might have  been  trying to do with the terms of the policy.  
However, it was open to Aviva to limit the scope of the cover it was providing in the policy 
wording - with reference to dictionary  definitions  if that is what it had wanted  to do. But the 
time to do this was before  the policy was taken out.
What's important is what the term in the policy actually says.  The term pre-existing 
condition is clearly defined by reference to the words illness  and injury or an associated 
symptoms of the same. And both illness and injury are also clearly  defined in the policy 
terms. So I don't think there's a need  to refer to the meaning of the words from a dictionary  in 
this particular matter.  Nor do I agree that the heading Condition: 1 impacts  on the words 
and definitions used  in the terms of the policy.
The anal glands of Mr and Mrs Bs dog dont  appear  to effectively empty  on their own during 
bowel movements. This means  the anal glands  often needed to be expressed.  And, whilst I 
havent seen any medical evidence about this, I accept that its possible that infected anal 
glands are an associated symptom of blocked  anal glands. 
But the first question I need  to consider in this matter is whether blocked  anal glands is a 
pre-existing condition, using the terms of the policy. 
Only if blocked  anal glands are a pre-existing condition, is it necessary to go on to consider 
whether an infection  of the anal glands is an associated symptom of this. If it is, then the 
treatment for the infected anal glands wouldnt  be covered by the terms of the policy. 
However, as I dont agree that blocked anal glands is a pre-existing condition, under the 
terms of the policy, it follows that I dont  need to make a finding on whether the infected anal 
glands are an associated symptom of blocked  anal glands.  
For the reasons  set out above, I dont agree that Aviva has reasonably  declined  this claim so 
I require it to put things  right as outlined below.
Ref: DRN15434764my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  To put things right, Aviva 
Insurance Limited should:
1.assess the claim in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy;  and
2.pay £75 compensation to Mrs B for any distress and inconvenience  caused by its 
handling of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1543476