K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
The policy was added  to Miss Bs account  when she applied for a credit card in 2003.     
Miss Bs account was closed in 2006. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint because:
 Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form Miss B signed. I can see that the 
Yes box to request  PPI has been  ticked instead of the No box. Miss B couldve ticked  
the no box if she didnt want the PPI. So considering everything I think its most likely 
that Capital One made Miss B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose  to 
take it. 
 Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. 
 Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But its unlikely Miss B wouldve been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And Miss B doesnt  appear to have much in the way of 
other means to make her credit card payments should she have had to stop working 
suddenly. The PPI was competitively priced,  had a reasonable  benefit and is also likely  
to have proved  more  reliable  than relying on family members. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped  Miss B buying the PPI. 
Ive taken into account Miss Bs comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1593204