K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly refused their application for further 
borrowing on their mortgage. They say they wanted to use the borrowing to pay off 
unsecured debt.
background
Mr and Mrs P had an existing mortgage with HSBC. They reviewed their finances  and 
decided to ask HSBC for further borrowing so that they could pay off some unsecured debt, 
reducing their outgoings overall. 
They spoke to an HSBC  mortgage adviser,  who recommended further borrowing to them.  
But when the application was assessed,  HSBC declined it. It said the further  borrowing was 
unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs P complained. They said it wasnt fair. They thought HSBC had double-counted 
 by including their unsecured debt repayments into the affordability  calculation even though 
they would  be using the further borrowing to pay it off, and so would no longer  be liable to 
make the payments. They said that in the end theyd had to move their mortgage to another  
lender to get the further borrowing.  This had cost them a £7,000 early repayment charge 
(ERC).
HSBC said that its policy  is to take into account unsecured debt repayments  where  the debt 
is with other  lenders. It does that even if the purpose  of the borrowing is to pay off the other  
debt, because it cant guarantee that the borrower will actually use the funds to repay the 
debt. If, for any reason, they dont,  then the borrower will be liable for both the old debt 
payments and the new mortgage payments. HSBC referred our investigator to the rules  of 
mortgage regulation (known as MCOB)  and in particular MCOB 11.6.16 R.
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  had considered the application fairly. He said MCOB 
11.6.16 R wasnt  relevant  to this case.  He said HSBC should refund the ERC Mr and Mrs P 
paid to move  to another lender, as well as the costs of moving their mortgage. But it could 
offset the savings  they had made by getting  a lower interest rate. And he said it should pay 
them £250  compensation.
HSBC didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision. It said the 
application was automatically declined by its system, rather  than by an underwriter. It said it 
was entitled to set its own criteria for affordability  assessments and apply them. It followed 
its lending policy in this case. It recognised it acted more carefully than other lenders, but 
said it was entitled  to do so. And it said it had concerns about how Mr and Mrs P handled  
their debt and borrowings,  and wasnt prepared to lend to them  further secured borrowing. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thinking on the complaint.  I said:
Mr and Mrs P already had a mortgage of just under £290,000, and wanted a further 
£30,000. As the mortgage rules in the regulators handbook  known as MCOB  
require, HSBC carried out a full assessment of whether the further  borrowing was 
affordable. This complaint  is about whether it approached that assessment fairly.
Theres a wide degree of latitude  open  to lenders. The regulator, the FCA, has set 
down a series of rules  that it expects lenders to follow. The rules  set out the sorts of 
Ref: DRN15721462things a lender  should take into account, but they dont prescribe the outcome of 
affordability assessments. In practice,  different lenders have different policies. Some 
are prepared to take more  risk with their lending than others. As a result, two different 
lenders might legitimately  reach different decisions on the same  application   and 
neither would be wrong. So the fact that Mr and Mrs P managed  to get the further 
borrowing elsewhere doesnt mean  that HSBC unfairly rejected their application.
I need to consider what the rules and HSBCs  lending policy  says,  and then take 
those factors into account in deciding whether HSBC considered the application 
fairly. 
Its unfortunate that HSBC didnt fully explain its lending decision when it first sent its 
evidence to our investigator. It told him that it was always its policy  to include the 
payments for debt to be consolidated, and it told the investigator that it considered 
MCOB 11.6.16 R to be relevant to that policy. But it didnt  explain in detail what it had 
done in this case.
As our investigator explained, MCOB 11.6.16 R says that where a lender is 
considering an application for debt consolidation from a credit  impaired customer,  it 
should either ensure the consolidated debts are to be repaid or should  include them  
in the affordability  assessment. Credit  impaired customer has a specific meaning  
which doesnt include Mr and Mrs P  and so HSBC  isnt required to follow  MCOB 
11.6.16 R. Its not directly  relevant to this complaint.
It was only after the investigator upheld the complaint that HSBC  agreed MCOB 
11.6.16 R wasnt  relevant.  It then gave him a more detailed explanation of the 
lending decision it had actually  made.  
HSBC said it was concerned about Mr and Mrs Ps use of credit. It said they had 
repeatedly applied for additional credit in the months leading  up to the application for 
further borrowing. It said based on their patterns of spending and borrowing  it had 
concerns about  their use of unsecured debt and wasnt persuaded that they intended 
to actually repay their unsecured debt with the further borrowing. It questioned why 
they had taken out a loan for £8,000  just a few weeks before applying for the further 
mortgage borrowing  if they really wanted  to reduce their debt and outgoings. And it 
said it wasnt its policy always to include the unsecured debt payments in the 
affordability assessment   but it wanted  to be satisfied the debt would be paid off 
before it would not do so.
Having reviewed the further information  HSBC has provided, I think it acted fairly. 
I cant say for sure what  Mr and Mrs P would have done if they had taken the HSBC  
further advance. They  may have paid off their unsecured debt, or they may not. On 
balance, I think it was reasonable  for HSBC to be concerned about  it.
Ive seen copies  of Mr and Mrs Ps credit  records. Before  making  this application  they 
had also taken out further borrowing with other  lenders, as well as with HSBC.  And it 
says Mr and Mrs P had made  several other applications for unsecured  borrowing 
from HSBC in the months leading up to the mortgage further advance  application.
When Mr and Mrs Ps application was refused by HSBC, they moved  their mortgage 
to another lender. While  their credit  records show they did pay off some unsecured 
Ref: DRN15721463debt around this time, they also went on, in the months afterwards, to take out further  
debt. 
Their new mortgage  completed in October  2018.  Since then, I can see both Mr and 
Mrs P have taken out substantial further  borrowing, as well as making use of other 
existing borrowing facilities.
Of course,  none of this could have been  known to HSBC at the time it refused their 
application. But I think their use of credit in the run up to the further borrowing 
mortgage application gave HSBC reasonable concerns  about  whether to lend them 
the mortgage further advance  and their use of credit since  taking out the new 
mortgage shows those  concerns were well-founded. 
As I said above, each  lender is entitled to its own lending criteria,  and to make its 
own lending  decisions  and two different lenders  can legitimately reach different 
results. I think HSBC had reasonable  concerns about how Mr and Mrs P were  using 
credit. Money borrowed on a mortgage  is secured on their home. It has to be paid 
back over a much longer  period. As a result,  the consequences if something goes 
wrong are higher  than for unsecured lending.  So the lending  criteria to be applied are 
stricter. In all the circumstances, I think HSBC acted fairly in declining  Mr and Mrs Ps 
further borrowing  application, and so I dont  think it would be fair to uphold  this 
complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision
HSBC accepted my provisional decision.  But Mr and Mrs P didnt. Mrs P said theyd had a 
discussion with one of HSBCs mortgage advisers, who recommended  they make the 
application and had advised them it was suitable. She said that if the application was going 
to be refused, the adviser shouldnt have  recommended it to them,  so the adviser must have 
given the wrong  advice.  If theyd known their application would fail, they would never have 
applied. And they say they were told the application  was automatically declined  which  
means HSBC couldnt have had the concerns I set out above. And they did intend  to 
consolidate the debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware this was an advised application, and an HSBC  adviser  recommended  they apply 
for the mortgage.  Its unfortunate that a positive recommendation was made and then the 
application refused.  But I dont think this is evidence that either the mortgage adviser, or 
HSBCs underwriting process,  was at fault.
In recent  years, its become compulsory  with some  limited exceptions which dont apply 
here  for advice  to be given before a mortgage  application is made. Advice is different to 
the lending decision. The adviser  would have considered Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances, and 
what they wanted to happen, and recommended a mortgage he or she thought was suitable 
for them. As part of that process, the adviser  would have to consider whether it was likely  
Mr and Mrs P would satisfy HSBCs lending criteria. But the adviser doesnt make the 
lending decision  thats a separate decision made by the underwriting  department.  
Ref: DRN15721464Different considerations apply to an adviser making a suitable  recommendation,  and a 
lender considering whether it can responsibly  lend  or whether it wants to  in a particular 
case. A mortgage  adviser doesnt underwrite the loan, and I dont think  the fact a 
recommendation was made but the application  refused  means that either the advice or the 
lending decision was unreasonable.  Nor would I expect an adviser to be able to assess with 
certainty whether  or not an application would be granted  theres always a risk it wont be.
HSBCs lending decision  was automatically declined by its system. Its legitimate for lenders  
to use automated decision making, as long as that results in fair treatment. Its true that 
Mr and Mrs Ps application wasnt considered  and assessed by a human underwriter before 
it was rejected. But HSBCs application system refused the application because of the 
factors Ive set out above, and HSBC has since explained why it was rejected by the system 
because of those  factors. I explained in my provisional decision that theres no obligation for 
a mortgage lender to lend  as long as it considers an application  fairly.  I understand why 
Mr and Mrs P dont  agree with HSBCs  concerns, but I think  they were reasonable ones. 
Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied HSBC considered  their application fairly.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019. 
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1572146