K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains Hastings Insurance Services Limited mis-sold her a telematics motor 
insurance policy. 
Miss Cs father, Mr C, brings this complaint on her behalf.
background 
Hastings sold Miss C a telematics  policy in October 2016. As part of the policy, she had to 
have a telematics box fitted to her car. The box recorded data and produced scores for four 
driving behaviours:  time of day driven, speed,  braking  and acceleration. Based on these 
scores, the insurer then gave Miss C an overall  driver rating out of 100. To keep her policy, 
Miss Cs driver rating had to stay above  the minimum score  of 40, otherwise the insurer 
could cancel it. 
In November 2016, Miss Cs driver rating dropped  below 40 so Hastings  sent her a warning, 
saying it would cancel  the policy unless her score improved. Mr C then contacted Hastings,  
as he was concerned  about Miss Cs scores, and raised a complaint  about the policy. He 
was unhappy  he didnt receive  call backs when requested,  and ultimately wasnt happy with 
the response. Hastings sent Miss C another cancellation warning in December when her 
scores didnt approve, and Mr C then cancelled the policy on her behalf in January 2017.  
Mr C felt the policy was mis-sold  because  they werent told about the importance of not 
driving at night and how this would impact Miss Cs scores.  They said Hastings also didnt 
explain the different  weightings  of the driving behaviours. Mr C said they were only told 
about this afterwards and they wouldnt have bought the policy if theyd known more about it. 
Mr C felt Hastings deliberately designed  the black box to give a low score, and they have no 
clear explanations for the scores they give. He didnt think  the policy  was fit for purpose.
An investigator here upheld the complaint and recommended that Hastings refunded  the 
telematics fee and cancellation fee (if charged), plus interest  and that they only charged  
Miss C for the time on risk on a strictly pro-rata  basis. She also recommended  Hastings pays 
£150 for the stress and inconvenience caused. Mr C accepted this on Miss Cs behalf, but 
Hastings disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed. 
After investigating  the policy, algorithms and issues in detail, I agreed that Hastings mis-sold 
the policy to Miss C. As a result, Hastings offered to only charge Miss C for the time she had 
the insurance cover, and to refund any other charges above this, plus interest  including the 
£210 telematics fee and any cancellation fee, if charged. It also offered £250 compensation 
for the time taken to investigate  the data, and the distress and inconvenience  caused by the 
mis-sale of the policy. 
Mr C responded on Miss Cs behalf to say they didnt  accept  Hastings offer. He said the 
time he has spent on this means  they should  get more than £250 and felt the offer was 
derisory. Mr C said Hastings have misled people,  and he expected  the ombudsman service  
to have more  powers to act against  a company  that mis-sold a policy. He said his daughter  
was stressed out by what happened, given this was her first insurance policy, and the offer 
doesnt reflect the impact this had. Mr C also said the customer service was shocking. The 
complaint was then referred to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN18024622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Hastings sales processes and the way these policies work in detail. At the 
time the policy was sold to Miss C, driving at night for more than 12% of the total time driven  
produced a zero score  for time of day, and this score was the heaviest weighted factor 
when calculating the overall driver rating. Im satisfied this was a significant  limitation  of the 
policy, which Hastings should have made  clear  during the sale.  In the online sales  journey, 
Hastings recommended not driving at night  regularly and said this would lower the driver 
rating. However, in my view, this wasnt enough  to clearly explain the significant impact  
driving at night would have  on Miss Cs driver  rating   and therefore her ability  to keep the 
policy. So, Hastings didnt  give her enough  clear information during the sale to allow  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to buy it. Im also persuaded Miss C wouldnt have 
bought the policy if shed  properly understood the limitations around driving at night, and the 
impact this would  have on her policy.
Hastings disagreed with my view, but still made an offer to resolve Miss Cs complaint.  I now
have to decide whether I think their offer is fair to recognise the impact  this had on Miss C. If
Miss C had bought  a policy  that was right for her (instead of the policy with Hastings), I find it
unlikely she would have  had to cancel it, which means she only would have  had to pay to set 
up a policy  once. However, she would always have had to pay for insurance cover during 
this time. So, Im satisfied  Hastings offer to only charge Miss C for the cost of the insurance,  
and to refund anything  she paid above  that amount, with interest,  is fair. This should include 
the cost of any extra cover Miss C purchased,  given  she would never  have purchased it via 
Hastings if she hadnt bought this policy with them. 
Turning to the offer of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused; 
theres no doubt that receiving cancellation warnings  early on in the policy,  trying  to improve 
her scores  without success,  and ultimately having to cancel  the policy,  would have  been  
stressful and upsetting for Miss C  especially as a young driver.  Hastings failure  to return  
calls when they promised  would have only added to this. She then had the inconvenience  of 
having to find another  policy to cover her, and I appreciate it also took a long time to get to 
the bottom  of the issues she raised.  But, weighing  everything up, on balance, Im still 
satisfied Hastings offer is reasonable  to recognise all of this. I acknowledge that Mr C has 
spent a lot of time handling his daughters complaint, but I can only ask a financial business 
to pay compensation  for the inconvenience and upset experienced by their customer  not 
by their representative. 
Even though  I agree  the information Hastings gave  about the policy during the sale should 
have been clearer   its not our role to fine or penalise a business  for any wrongdoing. So I 
wouldnt increase  an award to punish Hastings, as Mr C would like us to do. My role in this 
case is to look at the actual impact  this has had on Miss C, and to decide whether the 
amount Hastings have  offered is reasonable to reflect that. Taking  everything into account, 
and having regard to the general level of awards we make, on balance,  I consider the £250 
Hastings has offered to be reasonable compensation  to recognise the impact this had on 
Miss C. 
Ref: DRN18024623my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that Hastings Insurance  Services Limiteds 
offer is fair and reasonable to resolve  this complaint. Hastings Insurance  Service  Limited 
must:
-only charge Miss C for the time on cover (the pro-rata cost of the actual insurance 
cover) and refund anything  she was charged above this  including  any extra  cover  
purchased alongside  the policy; and
-add simple interest to the amount of the refund  at a rate of 8% per year from the date 
of cancellation  to the date of payment;
-remove the record of the cancellation  of Miss Cs policy  from any internal and 
external databases;  and
-pay Miss C a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Joanna Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1802462