K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company  Limited didnt fully repair his car 
after a motor insurance claim.
background
Mr A reported a claim to AA following an incident where a third party vehicles door swung  
open into his car in a car park. The other driver said they were  opening the door and a gust 
of wind led to the incident happening.
When reporting the claim Mr A described  the damage  variously as scratches,  paint and 
dents on the car body.  Mr A mentioned the door on several occasions  as well as the wheel.
The third party completed a claim form and noted that the incident had caused minor 
damage to front pannel and damage  to near side front.
AA covered damage to the door and additionally  to the wing mirror,  because  Mr A explained  
that it folds in automatically so its flat against the door. Mr A says theres damage to the 
wheel arch too and thinks  that ought  to be covered.
AA disagreed, it said during a second call Mr A was asked about  the wheel arch damage.  He 
said it might  have happened before he bought  the car and that he had only had it around a 
month.
No agreement could  be reached so an investigator  here looked  into the matter. They noted 
the damage hadnt been mentioned in the original claim call. And because  Mr A had 
suggested it may have  been there  when  he bought  the car they didnt think  AA needed to 
cover any further repairs.
Mr A disagreed, he said he isnt familiar with all the terms being used to describe different 
areas of the car and that confusion arose. He said that during the initial call he was being 
helped by someone. The matter remained unresolved, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  for me to decide is whether the damage to the wheel arch ought  to have been 
included in the repairs. I understand what Mr A says about confusion relating to the different 
areas of the car. And when I listened to the calls I could hear another voice helping him 
during the initial  claim call. Because of that, Im satisfied Mr A isnt as familiar  as some 
people with what the different parts of the car are known as. But I dont think  that necessarily 
means AA was wrong to be covering just the door and the wing mirror.
During the claim notification call Mr A describes the damage as being to the front door and 
then the, err near side [inaudible]. By using the word  and I think Mr A was trying to say 
theres more than just the damage  to the door, but this couldve been  the wing mirror  he was 
trying to add. This was the call when Mr A was being helped,  and the only part I think he was 
really clear about being damaged was the door.
Ref: DRN14604092AAs engineering team has said that as the two vehicles involved were  parked and a door 
swung open into Mr As car, youd only expect to see one point of impact. Its possible  that a 
door could  scrape  across  a car, causing  damage  horizontally along the side.  But I dont think 
thats what happened here as the two areas  of damage (the door and the wheel arch) dont 
appear to be linked in such a way. So I agree that its unlikely both happened in the same  
incident.
Ive thought about the confusion that arose  on the second call, when I believe Mr A was on 
his own. AA asked  him about quite a number  of different areas and Mr A doesnt appear to 
me to be particularly clear  on it all. AA had to explain what  it meant by fuel cap and Mr A 
says the damage  is the front door to the wheel side and the wing mirror.  AA specifically 
asked Mr A about the damage to the front wing and he said the damage may have been 
there when  he bought  the car, although  he didnt seem sure. 
I appreciate theres  been some confusion over everything, but Mr A said the door was 
damaged when he was being  helped. So I think thats the area most likely  to have been 
damaged in the incident. As he was being  helped  I think the person he was with wouldve 
made sure he included everything. And that means  I think its reasonable for AA to have 
carried out repairs to door (including the wing mirror).
I do appreciate Mr A is now saying the wheel arch/front wing was damaged  in the incident.  I 
also note the other  driver described the damage as being to the front panel.  That makes  it 
difficult because the front panel is where the wheel arch is.
But Mr A was clear in the call that it was the door damage he was claiming for, and I agree 
with AAs engineering team that its unlikely both areas could have  been  damaged  in the way 
the incident has been described. So, overall,  I think  AA has handled  Mr As claim fairly and 
therefore doesnt need to repair  the wheel arch.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1460409