K821x#15complaint
Miss O says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies.
background
This complaint is about single premium PPI policies Miss O took out with two loans in 1999.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Os case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss Os complaint because I dont think Nationwide  gave Miss O 
clear enough  information  about  the policies. I say this because she has told us she was 
suffering from a medical condition at the time she took the policies out. She had suffered 
from the condition  for several years before she took the policies and was taking  medication  
for it. I think this would have mattered  to Miss O because the medical condition would not 
have been covered under the policies.
I dont think Miss O wouldve  bought  the policies if Nationwide had given her enough 
information about them. So, I think Miss O has lost out because of what  Nationwide  did 
wrong. 
putting things right
Miss O borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so her loans were bigger  than they shouldve  been 
and she paid more  than they shouldve  each month.  So Miss O needs to get back the extra 
she paid. 
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Miss O the difference between what she paid each month on the loans 
and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amounts Miss O paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Miss O made a successful claim under  the PPI policies, Nationwide  can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN19211372my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Os complaint.
Nationwide Building  Society should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1921137