K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that the agent  Aviva  Insurance Limited instructed to replace glass  from 
the passenger  door of his car caused further damage. Mr M also complained about the 
service he received and wants  Aviva  to compensate him for his losses.  
background
Mr M reported that the glass  of the passenger door of his car had been broken in an 
attempted break  in on 7 March 2018. 
Aviva instructed an agent to replace the glass. The repairs took longer than usual as Mr Ms 
car was a 2006  import - so the replacement glass wasnt readily available to order  in the UK. 
Avivas agent had provided  a fix by applying a temporary glazing. On 20 April 2018  Mr M 
was unhappy  with the wait time.  Mr M said hed had to tape the glazing back  on a number of 
times to hold. Mr M said he felt he had to use Avivas agent. 
Aviva told Mr M he could  arrange for an alternative agent to replace  the glass  and send it the 
invoice, which Aviva would reimburse  him for. In the meantime it cancelled the job with its 
agent. 
On 8 June 2018 Mr M contacted Aviva and said hed discovered that another cars glass was 
a suitable replacement for the glass to his car. Avivas agent replaced the glass  to Mr Ms 
car on 14 June 2018. 
Mr M complained to Aviva. He said that following repair, the passenger door lock didnt  work  
and the window wouldnt go down. Mr M said the damage had been caused by hoovering  up 
the broken glass,  some  of which got into the lock. Mr M said the tape wouldnt  come off  
when it did it revealed paintwork  damage. Mr M wanted Aviva to pay him compensation of 
£250 to reflect the discount hed have as he intended to sell his car. 
In September  2018 Avivas agent  accepted  that its service hadnt  been as it should  have  and 
paid Mr M £75 compensation. It didnt accept that it damaged the lock or the paintwork. It 
said its agent didnt  apply tape when it carried out the temporary repair.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He provided  a copy of an 
invoice dated  20 October  2018 for £195. Mr M said this is what  he paid to have the lock 
repaired. He wanted Aviva  to settle  his claim as a total loss settlement and to compensate  
him for the loss of enjoyment of his car. 
Our adjudicator thought on balance that Aviva had done enough  to put things right. She 
didnt think there was enough  evidence  to show its agent was responsible for the additional 
damage Mr M claimed. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He doesnt feel we have grasped the extent of his losses. Mr M feels  the 
glass agent should have known that the other model  of car would have been a suitable one 
to use to replace  the glass without him having to discover it for them. He said all parts  were  
working prior to the break in. 
Mr M believes Aviva took a ridiculous amount of time to repair  his car  and a technician  told 
him by hoovering  up the glass this caused  the damage to the lock. 
Ref: DRN19922502So Mr M wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy says he can make  a claim following an incident. Given  the circumstances of 
how the damage occurred to Mr Ms car, Aviva  referred him to its glass  repairer agent to 
replace the passenger side door glass. 
There isnt anything to show me that the damage to the lock was caused by the glass agent 
instructed by Aviva. I have no way of knowing whether it was caused by the break in or not. 
Under Mr Ms policy, he could have made a claim for repairs  to his car following the break in. 
He would have  had to pay the excess which Aviva says was £350. 
Aviva has provided a recording of a call between it and Mr M on 20 April 2018.  Mr M said 
that hed taped up the temporary cover  on his car. 
I understand Mr M feels the glass agent  should  have known  that the glass  could have been  
replaced without  having  to order a replacement from America. But I think  its reasonable for 
the agent to have good knowledge  of UK standard motor vehicles  not necessarily imports. 
When Mr M contacted Aviva on 20 April 2018,  hed been without a replacement window for 
six weeks. When he asked Aviva to deal with his claim again on 8 June 2018, I think  its 
agent acted promptly.  
I cant say Aviva is responsible for the time between 20 April and 8 June 2018 as it 
understood Mr M was going to make  his own arrangements to have  the glass replaced and it 
would reimburse  him. 
I think Mr M was caused inconvenience over and above what I would consider reasonable in 
the service he received.  However, I think the compensation  of £75 which  Avivas  agent paid 
him was a fair sum. Each time, the agent attended Mr Ms place of work and he left the keys 
at reception. I also note that Mr M told us the agent offered to arrange for the passenger  
door to be resprayed,  but he refused. Mr M said the reason for this was because he intended 
to sell his car. 
There isnt anything in Avivas notes to support  this. But I think if the agent  offered to do this 
for Mr M, it was a reasonable  offer to put things right.  
I understand Mr M will be disappointed. But based on what  Ive seen, I think  Aviva has done  
enough to resolve  Mr Ms complaint. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN19922503Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1992250