K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that the car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with Black 
Horse Limited was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr I entered into HPA with Black  Horse to acquire a used car in February 2017. He 
experienced a number  of issues and says he does not feel safe driving  the car. The car has 
needed to go in for repairs  on several occasions and each time Mr I says he has been 
without the car for a few days and has not been  provided with a courtesy  car. 
Mr I says that he did not take the car on a family holiday as he didnt feel safe driving it. He 
therefore hired a car for the trip.
Black Horse  says that Mr I raised his initial complaint in October 2017 and an independent  
inspection was carried out in December 2017.  It issued a final response  letter  dated 
22 December 2017 in which it upheld Mr Is complaint in part. It said that the evidence 
suggested the issue with the aerial arose shortly after acquisition  and that this was resolved 
by the dealer. It accepted  that the issue with the clutch  was present or developing at the 
point of supply  but as this had been repaired it says this resolved the issue. It did not accept 
that the other issues were present or developing  at the point of supply.
Black Horse  did not think that the issues meant Mr I should be allowed to reject the car but 
did offer to pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he had been 
caused as well as his loss of enjoyment.  
Black Horse  mentioned that the issues  dealt with in the December 2017 final response  letter  
may be out of jurisdiction  due to when the complaint was raised but noted  the information  
relating to these  was relevant for the next complaint.
Mr I complained again in March  2018.  Black Horse  did not uphold  this complaint. It says that 
Mr I took delivery of the car more  than nine months before raising his first complaint and his 
second complaint  was raised 13 months  after acquisition.  It says that based on the time that 
passed, the mileage  covered, and the results of the independent inspection, it did not accept 
that the issues Mr I was complaining about were  present at the point of supply.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He did not find that the evidence  showed the 
car was not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply.
Mr I did not accept our investigators  view.  He reiterated the number of issues he had 
experienced with the car and that he felt our investigator had accepted it was unsafe.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based  on its merits. I take relevant  regulations  into 
consideration but my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the 
individual circumstances  of each complaint.
Ref: DRN11790172Mr I acquired  the car under a HPA. Under  the regulations, Black Horse is liable if the car 
provided was not of satisfactory quality or not fit for purpose at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account  the age and mileage of the car. At the time of 
acquisition the car had been driven around  31,800 miles and was just under six years old.
Mr I initially complained in October 2017 and then raised further  issues in March  2018. Both 
times he complained  that the car was not of satisfactory quality and raised specific issues he 
had experienced.  Mr I brought his complaint to this service addressing the overall issue  of 
satisfactory quality as well as the trouble  and upset he has been caused.  
Black Horse  upheld the initial complaint in part and paid Mr I £150 compensation. It did not 
consider it was required to do anything in regard to the further issues Mr I raised in 
March 2018.  
Black Horse  has said that due to the timing of the first final response letter, Mr Is first 
complaint may fall outside of our jurisdiction. However it accepted that the information  
needed to be provided in order to asses Mr Is second complaint. I have  looked  at the 
timescales involved and can see that Mr I first raised  his complaint with this service on 
14 June 2018  which was just within the six month  timeframe from the date of the first final 
response letter. Mr I then raised further  issues in March 2018. Given  the complaints  were 
both about the quality  of the car I find they form part of the same complaint and I have 
considered all the issues Mr I has raised in coming to my decision.
I have looked  at the work that has been undertaken on Mr Is car and can understand why 
he is upset at the number of issues  that have needed to be addressed.  However I can only 
uphold this complaint if I find that there  are ongoing issues that were more  likely than not 
present or developing at the point  of supply.
The first issues Mr I experienced were with the aerial and clutch.  These were raised within 
six weeks of Mr I acquiring  the car. I can understand he would have  been  disappointed that 
issues arose so soon after acquisition. However as both of these issues were  repaired by 
the dealer and I have nothing to suggest  the repairs were not of a satisfactory  quality, I find 
that this resolves  these  issues.
The next issue Mr I has provided evidence of related to the cars braking system.  An invoice 
addressing this issue has been  provided  dated October  2017.  The mileage on this invoice 
showed that Mr I had driven the car around  10,000 miles. There was then some repair work 
to the injectors.
The inspection report carried out in December 2017  said that the braking system  was in 
working order. As the repair  had been carried out it is not possible to say whether the issue 
that was repaired  was due to a fault present the point  of supply. However I note the time that 
had passed since  acquisition and the mileage covered and so without further evidence I do 
not find I uphold  this part of the complaint.
The inspection report covered a number of other  issues. It concluded that the only issue  that 
was developing  at the point of supply was the clutch fault and this had been resolved.
Based on the evidence  provided I do not find that I can say the other issues  raised were due 
to faults present at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN11790173Mr Is car then experienced  further  issues with a clock spring being replaced in February  
2018, and an issue with the battery being  identified in March 2018.  By this time Mr I had 
been able to drive  the car over 11,000 miles and had been  in possession  of the car for over 
a year.  Considering the information in the inspection report and that the car passed an MOT 
in February 2018  with no issues raised  (it initially failed but this was due to tyre tread  depth), 
I do not find that I have  enough evidence to say that these issues  were  present from the 
point of supply.
Mr I has experienced further issues since Black  Horse  issued  its March  final response  letter.  
As out investigator  explained, any new issues that have not previously been raised with 
Black Horse  would need to be considered  by it first.  
Overall, while  I understand why Mr I has been  upset that he has experienced issue  with his 
car, I can only say that it is more  likely  than not that the issue  with the clutch was present or 
developing at the point of supply. As this has been  addressed and Mr I has received 
compensation in regard  to this I find that Black Horse has done  enough  to settle this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1179017