K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  is that their mortgage  endowment policy wasnt suitable at the 
time it was sold in 1990. Specifically, there is no evidence the risks associated with the 
policy were suited to them. Nor were  other  repayment options discussed  with them, which  
they believe they should have been. Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited is responsible  for 
the sale of the endowment policy.
background
At the time of the sale Mr C was employed as a foreman  earning £260 per week  and Mrs C 
worked part-time as bar staff. Mrs Cs income  wasnt documented. They  had two young 
children and owned their own home. The house  had a value of £75,000 and they had an 
existing mortgage  of £27,500.  The mortgage was arranged on an endowment basis and they 
had two traditional with profits endowment policies supporting it. In addition, they had a 
whole of life policy.  Only a very small amount of savings and no other  investments  were 
recorded. Their  priority  was recorded  as arranging  a top-up mortgage of £10,000.
The provider of Mr and Mrs Cs existing endowment policies has confirmed that the first was 
taken out in 1985 and was a traditional with profits policy with a target amount of £21,000 
and term of 22 years. The second was taken out the following year.  It was again a traditional  
with-profits policy with a target value of £6,500  and a term of 25 years.
Mr and Mrs C applied for their policy in April 1990   a £10,000 endowment with a premium  
of £24 per month over 20 years. However,  by the time the policy started in June of that year 
the target  value and sum assured had increased.  The policy document  produced by 
Sanlams predecessor showed the policy was a unit-linked endowment  with a sum assured 
of £18,700, a term of 20 years and a monthly  premium of £43. The policy  was invested in the 
managed fund. Neither Sanlam nor Mr and Mrs C have been  able to explain the change 
made to the endowment policy. However,  Sanlam has provided a copy of a handwritten  
letter from Mrs C instructing it to increase the sum assured on the policy  from £10,000 to 
£18,700. Given this, it would appear that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage requirements increased 
during the months between application  and commencement of the policy.
The last premium paid to the policy was in February 1993.  The policy was made paid-up, 
which means that the fund value remained invested and paid for the life cover included  in the 
policy. Mr and Mrs C surrendered the policy in June 2001 for £672.67.
Mr and Mrs C confirmed during our investigation into their complaint that their mortgage 
arrangements were reviewed by their bank manager  in 1993. It was established  at the time 
that they had another, older endowment policy with another provider, which covered the 
increased mortgage. As such, the Sanlam policy was stopped as it was surplus to 
requirements.
Sanlam didnt consider the merits of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because  it thought  the 
complaint had been made too late. Mr and Mrs Cs representative didnt accept this position  
and so the complaint was referred to this service.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and concluded it was one we could 
consider. Sanlam accepted that opinion and so the investigator considered the merits of the 
complaint. She didnt  recommend it be upheld.  
Ref: DRN14594502Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings. Their  representative  said there wasnt 
evidence to show they were informed about  the risks associated with the endowment  sold to 
them or that other repayment options  were discussed. As such, it remained of the opinion  
the complaint  should be upheld. It asked for the case  to be passed to an ombudsman  for 
consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 January 2020. In that document I set out my 
conclusions and my reasons for reaching  them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
Mr and Mrs C have said they stopped paying into the endowment policy because their bank 
manager identified  that in 1990 they had three  endowment policies in place, not just two. As 
such, they hadnt needed to arrange the Sanlam policy  in 1990. Whilst not raised  as part of 
their complaint, for completeness I will comment briefly on this issue. 
When a financial adviser is giving advice they are to a large extent reliant on the information 
provided by their customer  about both factual information regarding  existing  arrangements  
and their needs and wants for the future.  It seems clear to me from what they have said and 
the information on the fact find from 1990,  that Mr and Mrs C had forgotten  they had the third 
endowment policy.  As such, Sanlam couldnt have factored that policy  into its advice and it 
did nothing wrong  in not doing so.
I must now consider the suitability of the Sanlam policy for Mr and Mrs C, given their 
circumstances. They were  both still fairly  young and the mortgage was due to end some 
years before retirement  when their incomes would drop. So reasonably it could be argued 
they had the capacity to take some  risk with their mortgage repayment  for the hope of better 
returns, if they were  so inclined. This is because they would  have time before retirement  to 
deal with any shortfall. However, just because they could  take a risk, doesnt mean  that they 
were willing to do so.
The Sanlam policy was invested in a managed fund. Policies invested in managed funds 
would have generally been  considered to represent  a medium level of risk at the time and 
only be suited to consumers who were willing to take a significant risk with their mortgage 
repayment. Unfortunately, this policy was sold before there  was a requirement for the 
discussions about attitude toward  risk to be documented. So I, therefore,  have to consider 
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances and existing arrangements to see if it is likely they were  
willing to accept the risk associated  with the Sanlam policy.
Mr and Mrs C had two traditional  with profits endowment policies that were taken out before 
the industry was regulated. I point this out as it means that the requirement for suitability that 
the Sanlam policy had to comply with was not in place  when  the original two policies were  
sold. The two existing  policies simply had to be appropriate, which  is a lower requirement. At 
the times  they were sold, these policies would  have generally been  considered  to have  
represented a very low level of risk and be appropriate for most consumers. 
Mr and Mrs C also had a whole of life policy, which would  indicate security for their family 
was a priority.  They  had an average  income for the time and had a family of four to provide 
for from it. Their mortgage with the original further  advance was within most lenders normal  
lending criteria for the time.
Whilst I cant say for certain that Mr and Mrs C werent willing at the time to accept  the level 
of risk associated with the Sanlam policy, their circumstances  dont indicate  this was likely. 
They had previously  had what  were considered to be very low risk and conservative 
Ref: DRN14594503arrangements and I have  seen  nothing that indicates there  had been  any significant changes  
that would  cause their attitudes to have changed. As such, I intend to uphold this complaint.  
Sanlam should  calculate whether Mr and Mrs C suffered a loss due to being sold an 
unsuitable policy. Whilst I cant say definitively what they would have done  had they not 
been sold this policy, I believe  it would be reasonable for redress  to be calculated using the 
regulators guidance (known as RU89) which would place (as far as possible)  Mr and Mrs C 
in the position they would have been in had they arranged  their further advance in 1990  on a 
repayment basis. 
The calculation should be completed for the period Mr and Mrs C used the policy  for their 
mortgage  the period they paid premiums. Interest at 8% simple per year should be added 
to any loss identified  from the date of calculation to the date of settlement. The surrender 
value of the endowment policy should  be deducted  from the calculation  as at the date they 
surrendered it in 2001. Given Mr and Mrs C were  married  and had dependents,  it would be 
appropriate for Sanlam  to include  the cost of a decreasing term assurance on the repayment 
side of the loss calculation. The resultant sum should be paid to Mr and Mrs C. 
If Sanlam considers it is required to deduct  income  tax from the interest calculation,  it should 
issue any necessary documentation  to Mr and Mrs C for HMRC use.
Both parties  acknowledged receipt  of my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs C accepted my 
conclusions and Sanlam  confirmed it had nothing further to add.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and in light of 
the fact neither party has added any further comment  or evidence, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.  
Ref: DRN14594504my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Sanlam Life & Pensions  Limited  to 
calculate whether  Mr and Mrs C suffered a loss using the regulators guidance known as 
RU89.
The calculation should be completed for the period Mr and Mrs C used the policy  for their 
mortgage  the period they paid premiums. Interest at 8% simple per year should be added 
to any loss identified  from the date of calculation to the date of settlement. The surrender 
value of the endowment policy should  be deducted  from the calculation  as at the date they 
surrendered it in 2001. Given Mr and Mrs C were  married  and had dependents,  it would be 
appropriate for Sanlam  to include  the cost of a decreasing term assurance on the repayment 
side of the loss calculation. The resultant sum should be paid to Mr and Mrs C. 
If Sanlam considers it is required to deduct  income  tax from the interest calculation,  it should 
issue any necessary documentation  to Mr and Mrs C for HMRC use.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.  
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1459450