K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Arval UK Limited  misled her about how much she owed on her car 
finance agreement.
background
In March 2016 Miss G entered  into a hire purchase  agreement with Arval  to fund a new car. 
The monthly payments  were £378.17.  Several months later Miss G entered  into a payment  
plan to cover  an outstanding  sum of £1,890.85 which  was five months rental payments. She 
agreed to pay £50.42  a month  for 30 months and one monthly payment was deferred to the 
end of the agreement. 
In April 2018 the car was stolen and written  off. The insurer  asked  Arval  for a settlement 
figure which it provided - £17,219. The insurer paid £16,369 leaving a shortfall of £850.09. 
Arval added an administration  fee of £30. It also said that it was owed the remaining  
payments due under the payment plan which  totalled £504.28.  It asked Miss G to pay the 
balance of £1,384.37.
Miss G complained and the matter was considered by one of our investigators.  He sought 
further clarification from Arval and concluded  the figure it had given was correct.  In turn it 
agreed to write off £350 as a goodwill gesture  and this left Miss G owing £1,034.37.
Miss G didnt  agree and said that two payments she had made  subsequent  to the car being 
written off hadnt been taken into account. The investigator asked for further  details from 
Arval and was satisfied that these  payments had been included.  Miss G also said that Arval  
hadnt told her that the deferred monthly  payment agreed when the payment  plan was set up 
wasnt included in the final settlement figure.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Miss G thought  she had paid off more than she had and I believe there 
are several reasons  for this. One is that the insurance pay out was less than the outstanding 
balance which meant that she owed a further sum to clear  the account.  The amount paid by 
the insurer is not one for me to consider and it isnt the responsibility of Arval.  I am satisfied it 
gave information  the insurer required.  
The second  complicating factor is that Miss G had a payment  plan. While  she presumed she 
had one account with Arval it looked at it as being two accounts.  It set up a payment plan 
account which covered  the outstanding  amount due on the hire purchase  account. In its 
accounting systems it had two accounts  running  and when  the car was written off I believe 
she was told the balance due on the hire purchase  agreement. However, she also owed the 
outstanding balance on the payment plan account.
The other factor is that Arvals accounting  systems and explanations can be a little 
confusing. I have noted the investigator  had to seek a number of clarifications and 
explanations before being satisfied that the figure quoted by Arval was correct.  I too have 
had to review the email  exchanges in some  detail before I was able to be satisfied that the 
Ref: DRN10683382final sum due was correct.  Therefore, I have some  sympathy with Miss G in that regard.  It 
also seems that the outstanding final payment wasnt fully explained.
However, I am satisfied  that the sum quoted by Arval is correct. So while  it could have been 
made clearer to Miss G I dont think Arval  has done anything wrong. I consider its offer to 
write off £350 to be fair and reasonable  in the circumstances and so I dont consider I can 
ask it to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 
18 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1068338