K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited policy has 
drastically reduced the sum assured on his whole-of-life insurance policy.
background
An adjudicator at this service  was satisfied that the business had not acted unfairly  and had 
operated the policy in line with the policys terms and conditions.
He explained  Mr Ss premiums were  reviewed regularly after the first 10 years to check if 
they were sufficient to cover the likely increase in the cost of his insurance cover. This had 
occurred first in 2008 when Sun Life had reduced  the sum assured  as Mr S had not agreed  
to increase the premiums to retain the original  sum.
He therefore also felt Mr S should  have been  aware  of the issue  hed recently complained  
about many  years earlier.
Mr S did not did not agree, and said:
He had paid the premiums  for 35 years and so Sun Life should still guarantee to pay 
the £140,000 original  sum assured (or the £155,000 increased figure)
It can only be due to its financial failings  that the original sum assured has now fallen 
by 90%
After the initial sales  meeting  he has had no contact  with Sun Life and even now it 
has not met him to discuss whats happened  to his policy or his complaint
It never explained that from 2001  onwards the accrued  value was subsidising the 
premium in order to subsidise the increase cover costs
It has never sought his agreement  to do this and so has acted without his authority in 
this regard
It should have  done far more to explain the state of his policy  and the implications for 
the sum assured
His wife received a reasonable pay-out recently  on her identical policy and he is 
prepared to accept  a similar sum as a compromise
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
I fully understand  that many customers who took out reviewable whole-of-life policies in the 
80s and 90s have been shocked  and dismayed  at their fall in value over the past decade  or 
so. This is partly  due to much lower investment returns  which  have applied  to policies 
Ref: DRN19557442across the board irrespective of the business  involved   and also to the far higher cost of the 
ongoing money life cover  when one gets past a certain age.
But this does not mean that Sun Life has necessarily  done something wrong. Firstly,  
because it could not have predicted that investment returns would fall so dramatically (and 
stay very low) such that any projections  of the likely  sustainability of a policy  have frequently 
proved highly over-optimistic.
Secondly, and crucially,  the original documentation  made clear  that the premiums/sums  
assured were only guaranteed for the first 10 years  and would then be regularly reviewed.
From what  Ive read, Sun Life spelt this out in 2008 when it first reviewed  Mr Ss policy 
negatively i.e. it told him that if he didnt agree to increase the premium it would reduce his 
sum assured. Further unfavourable reviews then followed with further  reductions  in the sum 
assured. So I cannot agree with him when he says it failed to explain things  over the years.
I also dont agree that it breached his terms and conditions when it took money from the 
accrued value to subsidise  the cost of his cover or when  it reduced the sum assured without 
his active consent  (because he didnt respond to the review letters).
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1955744