K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the redress offered by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited (the business)  after upholding his complaint  about unsuitable  advice. 
Hes being assisted by a claims management company (CMC). 
background
In April 1990, Mr B was given advice  to invest in a Financial Security  Account which  is a 
regular premium endowment policy, designed to pay an amount at the end of the term when 
Mr B reached the age of 65. 
It seems  at the time Mr B was in his late teens or very early  20s and had no financial 
dependents.   
The business upheld  the complaint. It said it couldn't justify the sale of a long term savings 
plan or the need for life cover.  It offered to refund the premiums  plus 8% simple interest. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The policy was sold pre A day, therefore  theres no documentation available  to 
confirm what Mr B was trying to achieve.
He was only 19 years of age and the recommendation for life cover and long term 
savings plans wasn't suitable. 
It was likely he was looking for some form of savings. 
The business should refund the premiums,  plus a return on the amount invested - 
equivalent to the Bank  of England (BOE) base rate plus 1% compounded a year - 
less the encashment value, with 8% simple  interest  from the date of settlement to the 
date of payment.  
The business agreed with the adjudicators  recommendation to uphold  the complaint, but 
disagreed with her proposed redress. In short, it said: 
As there  was no information about  his circumstances and requirements  at the point 
of sale, and it wasnt possible  to know what Mr B wouldve  done, its proposed  
redress  to refund premiums with interest  (15%  simple up to April 1993 and 8% 
simple thereafter) less the value paid to Mr B  was fair in the circumstances.   
Its not possible to determine what advice wouldve been appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
As there  was no evidence the policy was sold solely for the purposes of savings  
and therefore  Mr B wouldve invested  his money  some other  way  the adjudicators  
redress wasnt correct. Otherwise it wouldve agreed.  
It cant determine if Mr B shouldve invested at all.    
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16710712Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the available evidence, and on balance,  despite what the business says Im not 
satisfied that the redress  proposed by it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As the business  has upheld the primary complaint on the basis that it couldn't  justify a longer 
term savings plan or life cover, the only issue left for me to consider is redress.  For the 
record, I also think its more likely than not the advice was unsuitable  for the same  reasons 
as suggested  by the business. 
I can see why the business  might  think that a refund of premiums with interest, minus  the 
surrender value is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But I don't think  this adequately 
places Mr B in the position he wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice. 
I note the business says the complaint was upheld because there was no obvious 
requirement for life cover given he was single with no dependents at the time, without a set 
long term goal, and the policy wouldnt be suitable for savings either. 
But I dont entirely  follow the business reasoning. Just because  there were indications that 
the policy was sold for protection and savings, and the life cover element clearly wasnt 
suitable, doesnt therefore automatically mean he wouldnt have wanted savings at all. 
In other  words, just because the business couldn't justify the sale of the policy,  doesn't mean 
that Mr B didn't want  to save at all.
I acknowledge its difficult to know what he would've  done, and information from the point of 
sale is limited.  But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I think its more 
likely than not that he wanted  to save and thats why I think  the redress  suggested by the 
adjudicator is overall fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
I dont think its fair that the very limited information should disadvantage Mr B in this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out I uphold this complaint.  
I think Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited  should  pay the following 
redress to Mr B, as if he had invested  his premiums in low risk funds that gave him a realistic 
expectation of a worthwhile return, calculated as D + E, where: 
 A = the sum total of each monthly premiums he paid from the start date of the policy  to the 
date of surrender;  
 B = a return  on each  premium in A from time to time by way of capital growth equivalent 
to 1% above Bank of England base rate compounded yearly  from the date each premium 
was paid to surrender; 
 C = the value of the policy when it was surrendered;  
 D = A + B  C = the investment loss at the date the policy  was surrendered;  
Ref: DRN16710713 E = interest on D at the rate of 15% per annum  simple until 1993, and 8% per annum  
simple from the policys maturity date to the date of payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1671071