K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded money  he lost to what he says 
was a scam.
Barclays has said its not responsible for refunding Mr V as he authorised the transactions. It 
believes the subject  of the complaint is a civil dispute  between him and the person he sent 
the money to.
background
Mr V began giving  money to someone  described  as a family  friend,  Ill refer to him as Mr M, 
in 2010. This began with cash payments of around £300. Over time the size of the payments 
increased to over £4,000 and £5,000. Mr V would withdraw  the cash, either from a machine 
or in branch,  and then hand  it directly to Mr M or else pay it into his account. 
Mr V made a significantly  higher payment to Mr M in 2015  when  he sent over £79,000 via his 
online banking. There a number of other  smaller payments after that, up until July 2017.
Mr V received some money back from Mr M, although far less than hed given over.  Mr V 
has said these payments to him started in August 2016 and continued until June 2017.
Mr V has said the arrangement he entered into with Mr M was on the understanding  that the 
money would  be invested  in a construction project.  Mr V believed  hed receive returns  of 
10% per year. Mr V has provided some evidence in the form of basic  contracts which  were 
signed by him, a representative of his (who Ill call Ms W), Mr M and another person  Mr V 
says was identified  as a solicitor.  There  isnt mention of the purpose  of the funds paid by 
Mr V in these documents, only reference  to the proposed returns. And they are dated  from 
2015 onward;  there havent  been  any such agreements presented for earlier  payments.
Within the agreement is reference to a property owned by Mr M being  offered as security  
against Mr Vs payments.  And theres  also mention of how funds would be dispersed  in the 
event of Mr V or Mr Ms passing.
Mr V suspected hed been the victim  of a scam when he stopped receiving payments from 
Mr M and also discovered the property  that had been offered as security had been sold.  This 
was in mid-2017.
It appears Mr V continued to be in touch with Mr M, either directly  or through  his 
representative, Ms W, for some years after. Mr V has sent us call recordings between  Ms W 
and Mr M in which the money  owed to Mr V  and the broken agreement  is discussed. The 
calls take place in June 2019.
Mr V reported the matter  to Action Fraud and the police. But it appears the police decided 
they wouldnt pursue  the case.  
Mr V raised his case with Barclays,  asking  that they refund his money. The bank looked  into 
Mr Vs claim of fraud  but said it wouldnt be able to help. It felt the matter was a civil dispute 
between Mr V and Mr M. Mr V brought his complaint to our service as he was unhappy  with 
the banks response.
Ref: DRN14864292One of our investigators  looked into what had happened and ultimately didnt uphold the 
case. He thought there might be some  merit to the banks  argument that this was a civil 
dispute. But, more  importantly, he highlighted he didnt think  the bank needed to do anything 
more, even if Mr V had been caught  up in a scam.  Thats  because  he felt that even if the 
bank had intervened at the time Mr V was making  payments to Mr M, and warned Mr V he 
might be falling victim to a scam, it was more  likely  than not he would have proceeded 
anyway.
That was on the basis that Mr V had been  introduced to Mr M through  a trusted  source. Hed 
also been presented with a persuasive   if rudimentary  contract and had been offered 
security against a property. He also noted the inclusion of a solicitor (at least in appearance) 
as a persuasive factor for Mr V. Our investigator also said that it appeared Mr V had 
received some returns at times which would have seemed to further legitimise the deal. And 
he commented that Mr M appeared to have  a genuine limited  company registered on 
companies house with its stated purpose as being  construction.
With all of those factors in mind  our investigator thought Mr V would have  gone  on to send  
money to Mr M even if the bank had given him a warning about scams  and so he didnt think  
itd be fair to ask the bank to refund him now.
Mr V didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. He was unhappy the bank hadnt given him any warnings about  scams and 
highlighted this as a key part of his complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr V. I understand he has lost a good deal of money 
that he legitimately believed hed be getting a return on. It appears Mr M has not fulfilled his 
promises to Mr V. 
I also understand Mr V has been struggling  mentally and financially for a number of years 
and that the events underlying this complaint  are a significant contributor  to his difficulties. 
Im sorry  hes had to endure all he has. But having thought very carefully about whats 
happened Im not telling Barclays  to refund Mr V the money he gave to Mr M.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
There may be times when  it would  be appropriate  for a bank, like Barclays, to question its 
customer about payments  out of their account.  That could include times when it might 
reasonably suspect its customer could be at risk of falling victim to a scam.
Ref: DRN14864293Mr V argues  that the bank  ought  to have  questioned  him about the payments at the time. 
Hes reiterated that this is the main thrust of his complaint. But, as far as the outcome of this 
case is concerned, its not the most  important  consideration.  Instead, that is whether any 
intervention from the bank  would have made any difference.  Would Mr V have acted 
differently if the bank  had asked him about the payments and given warning  about  the risks 
of fraud  and scams?  Im not persuaded he would  have, and its for that reason Im unable to 
uphold his complaint.
Much of this reasoning  has been  explained by our investigator.  And so I dont intend  to go 
back over all of the details again  here. These are some of the major  contributing  factors  that 
persuade me Mr V would have gone  ahead with the payments even had the bank 
questioned him about them:
Mr V has described Mr M as a family friend  and someone he was well acquainted 
with through his local temple. Mr V appears  to have  had an established and trusting  
relationship with Mr M, certainly by the time any substantial payments are made  
from his account;
Mr V steadily gave  Mr M more and more money  over the years.  The largest  payment  
of over £79,000 was sent five years after Mr V first started giving Mr M money. This 
suggests an ongoing and trusting relationship.
Mr V believed his money was protected by the security over one of Mr Ms properties 
which appeared to be confirmed and established in contract;
Mr V has been assisted by Ms W from at least September 2015 when he made the 
large payment.  She was a counter  signatory on the contract. She was still involved 
in the dealings in June  2019. This suggests  Mr V has discussed details with her and 
has been reassured by her impartial  involvement.
Mr V believed the contract hed entered into had been approved  by a solicitor.  Its 
possible it had been. But Mr V had confidence in the validity  of the contact at the 
time he sent the payment.
Theres no mention  of a specific investment or purpose for the funds in the 2015 
contract. Mr V appears to have been  willing to send Mr M funds for an unconfirmed  
purpose on the understanding hed receive  a return and regardless of what may 
have happened  to payments prior to that date.
Many of these points support the banks  view that this is a civil dispute rather  than a scam. I 
would agree there is a lot of evidence  to support that as being the case.  In addition to the 
above, it appears the police have been  unwilling to pursue an investigation and, from the 
evidence Ive seen,  that seems  to be on the basis that they dont believe theres  enough to 
consider a criminal  case.
This doesnt have  the hallmarks of a scam this service would normally  be investigating. Mr V 
knows who has his money  and that very often isnt the case. A scammer  will often be an 
unknown individual  who the customer has never  met and often pretending to be someone 
else.
But Mr V has been  in touch with Mr M for many  years and, it would appear,  is still in contact 
with him. The evidence provided by Mr V suggests that he and Ms W still see Mr M at the 
Ref: DRN14864294temple they attend. Or they at least did as recently  as June 2019, four years after Mr V sent 
the large payment to him. I also note Mr V seems to have Mr Ms contact details, including 
his home  address, and so could pursue him directly should he choose to.
Given all of the facts of the case, as Ive set out above, Im not persuaded Mr V would have 
acted differently had the bank questioned him about his transactions.  He would have been 
able to give a confident  explanation of what he was using  the funds for, supported by 
contracts and with the reassurance he had consulted independent third parties close  to him. 
And so its questionable as to whether the bank would have any cause for concern, following 
Mr Vs explanation of events. But the key point here is that I believe Mr V would have 
proceeded with the payments if questioned  by the bank and given a warning about  scams.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 20 February  2021.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1486429