K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc blocked  and closed his accounts. And it hasnt 
explained why. He also complains that Santander  wont return  money left in his closed account 
to him.
Background
Mr R had a current account  with Santander.
On 26 September  2018, two payments of £12,560 and £7,440 were received into Mr Rs 
account. 
Santander reviewed  Mr Rs account  and asked him some questions about the payments. 
Whilst it conducted the review Santander  restricted Mr Rs access to his account.
Mr R told Santander the money was payment  for work hed done. So, Santander asked Mr R 
to provide proof of his entitlement to the money. Mr R gave Santander  copies of two invoices 
and a supporting  letter  from a company, which I will refer to as B. Santander reviewed the 
information Mr R provided but said it wasnt enough  to show Mr R was entitled to the money. 
In October  2018, Santander closed Mr Rs account. And it transferred the outstanding  
balance into a sundry account.  Unhappy with this Mr R brought  his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Rs case. She said Santander acted in line with its processes 
when asking Mr R for more information about  the payments. So, she didnt uphold  the 
complaint. Mr R disagreed. Hes still unhappy  Santander wont allow  him access to the 
remaining balance in his account. So, the complaint has come  to me decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr Rs account. Anti-money laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive  obligations on regulated  financial businesses  
to have suitable systems  in place for customer identification. Financial institutions  must also 
establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the origin  of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships.
In order to meet these  requirements Santander  is required  to have measures in place to 
review payments. As part of its review process  Santander is entitled  to ask a customer for 
more information  about how they use their account.  And its not for this service  to interfere 
with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made  any mistakes and then 
put the customer back in the position theyd have  been in if the mistake hadnt  happened.
I can see that Santander wrote to Mr R to let him know what  it was doing. And spoke to him 
on several occasions to tell him it needed to see proof of his entitlement  to the money. So, 
I think Santanders kept Mr R informed about what its doing.  And what  information it needed 
to see from him.
Ref: DRN17769312Having looked  at the paperwork  Mr R gave to the bank, I can understand why Santander  
had concerns. I say this because there  are several spelling mistakes in the paperwork  in 
particular the name  of the company shown as making the payment, the invoices are not on 
headed paperwork, theres also no VAT numbers, and Bs address shown on the letter 
doesnt match the information recorded on Companies House. So, Im not satisfied that Mr R 
has shown he is entitled to the funds  in his account.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander were acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when  reviewing Mr Rs account  and asking him questions. So, I dont  think its 
done anything  wrong. And so far, Mr R hasnt been  able to show  that he is entitled  to the 
money remaining  in his account. So, Im not going to ask Santander to return the money to 
him.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Rs account confirm Santander can close the account 
immediately under certain circumstances. I think considering what  happened  in this case, its 
fair and reasonable Santander took the action  it did. And it decided  to close  Mr Rs account  
immediately. I can see that Santander  wrote to Mr R on 8 October  2018  to let him know  it 
was closing his account. So, Im satisfied  Santander has complied with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
 
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr R feels about whats happened. But overall, based 
on the evidence  I have, I cant fairly say Santander  have acted unreasonably. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1776931