K821x#15complaint
Mr B, acting as representative for the estate of Miss B, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
didnt do enough  to protect Miss B from fraud  and scams; that it has held her liable for some 
unauthorised card payments; and that it unreasonably delayed  activating a power of attorney 
submitted by her attorney  after the fraud  was discovered.
background
Below is a list of the relevant transactions.
Date Place/location Type of transaction Amount
20 June 2014  In branch Bank transfer £37,500
17 December 2014 Korea ATM ATM cash  withdrawal £118.16
17 December 2014 Korea ATM ATM cash  withdrawal £177.24
17 December 2014 Korea ATM ATM cash  withdrawal £177.24
9 April 2015 In branch Bank transfer £196,456.88
In summary,  Mr B has said:
The in-branch payments on 20 June 2014 and 9 April 2015  were made as a result  of 
third-party fraud and scams, and HSBC  did not do enough to protect  Miss B from the 
loss of this money.
Miss B did not authorise the three  cash withdrawals on 17 December 2014 and 
HSBC has unfairly  held her responsible for them.
The way in which HSBC dealt with the power of attorney  after the fraud  was 
discovered has caused distress and inconvenience.
Sadly, Miss B passed away in October  2016.
Ultimately, HSBC didnt uphold this complaint by the estate.  So Mr B referred the matter  to
us. An investigator  didnt recommend that it be upheld. Mr B disagreed,  so the complaint has
been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr B and HSBC  my provisional decision on 11 September 2020,  explaining  why I was 
minded to uphold  the complaint in part (although substantially), and explaining the 
compensation I was minded to conclude  was appropriate. 
Neither Mr B nor HSBC  accepted my provisional decision: Mr B argued, in summary, that 
compensatory interest  of 8% is appropriate,  and that the complaint about the ATM cash  
withdrawals should  also be upheld; and HSBC provided detailed  and lengthy  submissions in 
essence explaining why it thinks it should not be held responsible for the two in-branch 
payments.
I subsequently explained in emails  to both Mr B and HSBC on 1 March 2021 why I was still 
not minded to uphold the complaint about  the ATM  cash  withdrawals; and why I was minded 
Ref: DRN11134712to consider 8% simple  compensatory interest appropriate with regards to the in-branch 
payments. Both Mr B and HSBC responded with further arguments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific  point,
its not because  Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it, but because  I dont think  I
need to comment  on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reached materially  the same  conclusions and for materially the same reasons as in my 
provisional decision as further clarified in my emails  to the parties  dated  1 March 2021.  Ive 
explained my reasons  again below with further comment where I have thought it appropriate  
to address Mr B and HSBCs most recent submissions.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, I am required  
to take into account  relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations (in this case the 2009  regulations) and the terms and conditions  of the 
customers account. That was the case in June  2014 and April 2015, and remains  so now, 
and I have taken  this into account when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. In 
addition:  
 Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6). 
 Firms also have  a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish  
and maintain effective systems and controls  for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system  and for countering the risk 
that the firm might  be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have  
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing  measures taken by banks to counter financial crime:
The 2012 thematic review paper Banks  defences against  investment fraud   
Detecting perpetrators and protecting victims (the 2012  paper)  sets out such  
non-exhaustive examples. And I am satisfied that the findings  of this thematic 
review and SYSC 3.2.6R  are of relevance  to both sending and receiving banks. 
For example, the 2012 paper considered  banks  efforts to counter fraud  where 
both the customer  is the fraudster and also where the customer  is the victim, in 
light of the regulatory  obligation  to counter the risk that regulated firms might be 
used to further financial crime, including fraud.
The FSA also explained in the 2012  paper that whilst it focused  on investment 
fraud it was of some relevance to other types of fraud as well. Specifically, it said 
Ref: DRN11134713we have  a regulatory remit  to tackle investment fraud, which has prompted  our 
particular interest in this area, although the lessons of this report  can be applied 
to banks handling of other types of fraud  and criminal conduct affecting their 
customers.
Further, at the very time of writing  this decision,  I see that the FCA has issued a press 
release (16 March 2021)  about its forthcoming  criminal prosecution  of NatWest for alleged 
failure to exercise  due diligence with regard to the requirements of regulations 8(1), 8(3) and 
14(1) of the Money  Laundering Regulations  2007  between 11 November 2011  and 19 
October 2016:
These regulations  require the firm to determine, conduct and demonstrate risk sensitive 
due diligence  and ongoing monitoring of its relationships with its customers for the 
purposes of preventing money laundering.
It seems  clear  from this that standards of due diligence and good industry practice  have 
existed for a long time  including at the time of the disputed events in our case  here. Taking 
all of these things into account, I consider that at the time of the payments in 2014/15,  HSBC  
should fairly and reasonably have:
monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators  that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst  other things), 
particularly given  the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years,  
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
taken additional  steps or made  additional checks in some circumstances  
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing a payment; or in some 
cases, to have declined to make  a payment altogether in order to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  Our fair and reasonable  remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow  legal duties  considered in 
that and other court cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case. However, the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
I am mindful  that my fellow ombudsman and I have referenced  the relevant rules,  codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions,  both to HSBC 
and published  on our website.
Ref: DRN11134714I am satisfied that Miss B authorised the transactions in June 2014 and April 2015. So in this 
case, taking all of these things into account,  I need to decide  whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Miss B when  she made these two payments totalling 
£233,956.88, or whether  it should  have done  more than it did. (I will address the matters of 
the three cash withdrawals in December 2014  and the power of attorney separately below.)
the first payment request  in June 2014
I have considered the position carefully. In this case I am satisfied  that when Miss B went  
into the HSBC  branch  in June 2014 to request a payment of £37,500, HSBC  ought 
reasonably to have  recognised the payment  was unusual and uncharacteristic, and that 
Miss B was at risk of financial harm from fraud and scams. 
Whilst I accept  there is a balance to be struck  between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and 
ensuring minimal disruption  to legitimate payments, I do not think  this means HSBC acted 
fairly and reasonably in this case.
Miss B was 81 years old at the time. Ive seen a copy of her bank statements spanning back 
to the beginning of March  2014, and the amount of the payment request ought reasonably to 
have appeared  unusual  and sizeable to HSBC. The payment was also to a new payee, and 
it was an international  payment.
Mr B has provided a copy of a letter dated 21 November 2016,  in which a psychiatrist has 
stated that he would regard Miss B to have been incapacitous [sic] in relation to financial 
matters from period 2013-2015 and that in 2013 a doctor had expressed concerns to 
Miss Bs GP with regard to her cognitive  function,  her hearing, and the need to combat 
sedation. I am not saying HSBC was necessarily aware of this particular information.  But I 
do think, on the balance of probabilities, that HSBC ought to have been  on alert in branch 
about this sort of payment  request  from a customer who, on the face of things, likely 
appeared vulnerable. 
In response to my provisional decision HSBC has said that the psychiatrists letter  appears 
to retrospectively  suggest Miss B may have lacked capacity at the time of the payments, at 
least in respect of managing her financial affairs. HSBC goes on to argue that the letter 
should not be relied upon because it argues: it was prepared by someone who never met 
Miss B; the circumstances  and purpose  for which it was obtained are unclear; its unclear 
whether other less favourable opinions  for Mr B were obtained but not disclosed; Mr B would 
not have been able to obtain a general power  of attorney (as he did) if, in December  2015,  
Miss B lacked capacity.  HSBC has also said that as a matter  of law it is simply not the case 
that transactions can be avoided on the basis of an individual lacking capacity  and that this 
must also have been apparent to HSBC  at the time and there is no evidence it was.
Ive considered all of the points HSBC has made about this but these do not change  my 
mind. I have  not made any findings,  nor is it necessary for me to do so, on Miss Bs capacity 
 the complaint does not turn on this. The psychiatrists letter  is merely one piece of 
evidence that Ive considered alongside everything thats been provided. And I still think  that 
given Miss Bs circumstances she most likely appeared  potentially vulnerable in the HSBC 
branch, particularly to fraud and scams like this that sadly disproportionately target and 
affect people of this age group. In any event, given the size and nature  of the payment 
instruction here (as Ive explained), I think the payment would have appeared unusual and 
uncharacteristic for most customers, let alone an elderly and potentially  vulnerable  one  
Ref: DRN11134715such that in branch HSBC should  have  questioned  Miss B to an appropriate level designed  
to disturb or unearth a potential fraud and establish  whether  or not she was at risk of 
financial harm. 
In response to my provisional decision HSBC has said it accepts this transaction  (and the 
second branch  transaction addressed below) might be considered unusual or 
uncharacteristic and might prompt inquiries in branch.  HSBC  argues that appropriate  
inquiries were undertaken in branch  I am not persuaded by this, however, and Ill explain 
why. 
There is a Priority  Payment Customer  Authority form for the payment, which Miss B signed 
on 20 June 2014.  This shows details of the payment request  that the beneficiary bank was 
based in the USA, and that the intended beneficiary was a company that in this decision Ill 
call C.
HSBC says that a passport was provided  to support the payment and the reason given for 
the payment was to purchase shares  in the USA. It says no further information is available  
as due to the passage  of time the branch employee  who served Miss B is unable to recall  
her visit on that day. So HSBC doesnt  know the extent of questioning that took place. I am 
satisfied, however, that if Miss B said the payment was for shares  (as HSBC  has said she 
did), then HSBC ought reasonably to have  assumed  that Miss B was at risk of financial harm  
from fraud. Investment fraud has been prevalent  and well known to the banks for a number 
of years.  And given the circumstances Ive already described, HSBC ought to have remained 
on alert and questioned Miss B further.
Mr B has provided a copy of a contract with C that Miss B signed on 3 June 2014. This 
contract is described as for an investment in carbon offsets  for a price of £37,500. I am 
satisfied this was the investment for which Miss B went  into the branch that day, on 20 June 
2014, to make the payment. Mr B says that when Miss B was asked in 2016 how she had 
conveyed all the necessary details to HSBC in 2014  for the payment, her recollection was 
that she took along to HSBC this printed paperwork (the contract) that shed received from 
C. I find this plausible  and persuasive.
Its unclear whether HSBC asked to see and did see this contract.  But given what Ive 
already said, HSBC ought to have asked Miss B reasonably probing questions  to reassure 
itself and her that nothing  was amiss,  e.g. how she had come to hear about  the investment, 
what she knew about the company, whether she had any paperwork to support the 
investment, etc. Ive no reason to doubt that Miss B would  have produced  the paperwork on 
request, which  would probably  have triggered more serious concerns to HSBC  as a financial 
services professional.
Mr B has submitted a number of media  articles predating the payment in 2014 that discuss  
carbon offsets,  carbon credits  and boiler room scams as an ongoing issue of concern, 
particularly targeting  the elderly. And I am satisfied that a bank acting  fairly  and reasonably   
in line with the due-diligence, anti-money-laundering (etc) standards  outlined  above  would 
have been concerned by this; and that had it followed appropriate steps in branch, including  
referring internally for advice, it would have realised that Miss B was at serious  risk of 
financial harm.
Ive thought carefully about the possibility that Miss B may nevertheless  have wished to 
continue with the payment request despite HSBC concerns.  I do think, however, that if 
HSBC had treated  the payment request and Miss Bs risk of financial harm  with appropriate 
Ref: DRN11134716seriousness, explored the available information and given Miss B sufficiently strong  warnings 
about potential  fraud  and scams, that it most  likely would have caused  her to realise that she 
was being duped. In any event, given the level of concern HSBC ought reasonably to have 
had, given Miss Bs age and circumstances, even if she had insisted on the payment 
regardless, HSBC  could and should  have refused to put the payment  through  until it was 
satisfied either that Miss B had obtained sufficient support or the transaction  was legitimate. I 
appreciate this isnt a step any bank would take lightly given its obligations to process 
authorised payments without undue delay  but it is an option  where  a bank is suspicious 
and recognises  there is a real risk of harm. In my view,  this would have led to the transaction 
not being made at that time or at all. Overall,  therefore, I think its most likely that, had HSBC 
done what it should have, Miss B would not have made the payment and lost £37,500.
HSBC has said in response to my provisional  decision that my decision appears to be 
heavily influenced  by Mr Bs submissions  which,  it says,  include quasi-expert evidence and 
counsels opinion, and the ombudsman service is not intended  to be a court  of law. HSBC 
has said Mr Bs recollections are not first-hand, in the sense that it was not Mr B who was 
scammed. It has also said that Mr B has deployed very significant resources in challenging 
the adjudicators  opinion,  that it is to be noted  that it is not Miss B who now stands to benefit  
from this endeavour;  and that generally it does not accept Mr Bs evidence  can be relied 
upon. 
I have thought about this. However, Mr B clearly feels  strongly that Miss B was let down 
here. He is entitled  to provide full and thorough submissions. I havent seen anything that 
has led me to question Mr Bs integrity   and he is entitled, if not obliged,  to act in the best 
interests of the estate.  I have considered Mr Bs submissions alongside everything else 
provided on this case  to decide  what I think is fair and reasonable overall. In any event it is 
the evidence around how the payments were made  and what  would most likely have 
happened if HSBC  had acted appropriately that is determinative  here. 
the second payment request in April 2015
The second  payment in question was made  by Miss B on 9 April 2015, again  in branch, this 
time for £196,456.88.  I shall say at the outset that, if HSBC had intervened with regard to the 
first payment,  it seems  unlikely that Miss B would  have  been duped to make this significantly 
higher second  payment  as both she and the bank would have been more  alive to the risk 
of her being targeted for scams.  So it is arguable that the cause of this loss also stems from 
the banks initial failure to act fairly  and reasonably.  But for completeness  I will address the 
circumstances in detail.  
Whilst I accept  there is a balance to be struck  between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and 
ensuring minimal disruption  to legitimate payments, I do not think  this means HSBC acted 
fairly and reasonably in this case.
Mr B says that this payment was also made  as a result of a scam  and that Miss B had 
been contacted by phone by the fraudster  following on from her payment in June 2014, and 
she was persuaded  to make the payment.
HSBC has said in response to my provisional  decision that no proof  has been provided that 
this second payment was prompted  by Miss Bs receipt of a call from an individual  linked to 
the beneficiary of the first payment. However,  Mr B has told us what he says he remembers 
Miss B told him when she was alive. Ive no reason not to believe this. In any event, its 
Ref: DRN11134717common ground that Miss B was scammed on both occasions. The crux of the issue  is 
whether HSBC responded to Miss Bs payment instructions appropriately (and if it did not, 
what would  have most likely happened otherwise). 
There is an Electronic Funds Transfer Customer Authority  form for the payment,  which  
Miss B signed on 9 April 2015. This shows  the payment was intended to go to a beneficiary I 
shall call O in this decision,  at an account with a well-known UK bank. There are 
handwritten notes on this form that state, Referred  to [staff name] to discuss potential 
vulnerable person, agreed with me that given proof  that we would make payment, and 
Have questioned customer regarding what the funds  are being used for. She is buying a 
property in Ireland.  She is using an Fx company  for transaction as in EUROS. Paperwork 
supplied sent for scanning.
HSBC says that a passport was provided  to support the payment and the reason given for 
the payment was to purchase a property in Ireland. It says its branch required further 
information and documentation from Miss B before agreeing to process  the payment; that an 
appointment was arranged  with a manager on 9 April 2015; and Miss B provided 
documentation for a foreign exchange (Forex) company and explained that the exchange 
rate offered  by this company was more  competitive  than HSBCs rate and that, by delaying 
her payment, HSBC  was causing her to lose money.  HSBC  says its records indicate that 
copies of the documentation  were  taken but that, regrettably, as these were not scanned to 
its system it is unable to provide copies.
I am satisfied, therefore, that HSBC was on alert  once again  that Miss B was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud  and scams. Given this really was a very significant  payment indeed 
 almost £200,000   and given what Ive already explained about Miss Bs circumstances, I 
am satisfied  that the banks alerts for unusual or uncharacteristic activities should  have been 
triggered. It ought to have, as with the first payment, questioned Miss B to an appropriate 
level designed to disturb or unearth a potential fraud and establish  whether or not she was at 
risk of financial  harm.
In response to my provisional decision HSBC appears to accept this transaction might be 
considered unusual or uncharacteristic  and might prompt  inquiries in branch. It has also 
argued that there was a large transfer of £216,762  made by Miss B on 27 November 2014,  
which it says demonstrates  that Miss B did make  large payments on occasion  and payments 
such as this were not entirely out of character. HSBC also argues that appropriate inquiries  
were undertaken in branch. 
I appreciate HSBC says it was concerned,  it did ask Miss B questions, and she produced 
paperwork and an explanation from which it was satisfied. Unfortunately,  however, this 
paperwork is no longer  available. And whilst I accept that it is possible that Miss B did 
persuade HSBC that the payment to O was legitimate, I think  that if HSBC had done what  it 
should have during the first scam in June  2014,  it would have realised that Miss B was 
particularly vulnerable to scams.
Mr B has pointed  to a note captured by a different bank on 4 September  2013 in relation  to a 
different payment that states Please make sure that you check that the customer  is aware 
of where the funds  are being  sent for any international  payments. As customer  has been into 
branch and tried to complete  a transfer without  seeming to know  what  for. And given what 
Ive already explained, had HSBC questioned Miss B adequately, it seems unlikely that it 
would have been reassured  that she wasnt at risk of financial harm. The evidence suggests 
that she said the payment was for a foreign currency with which to buy a property in Ireland  
Ref: DRN11134718 but there is no persuasive evidence HSBC obtained from Miss Bs paperwork to confirm a 
legitimate purchase  in Ireland she purported  to be making. And I do think  that HSBCs level 
of concern ought to have been great  enough  to more fully investigate the payment and 
Miss Bs potential vulnerability.
In its response to my provisional decision,  HSBC  has said that the note from September 
2013 from another bank is of no evidential value to the present case  and should  not form 
part of my reasoning.  It states it was not aware of this at any stage, nor should it have been; 
and that further,  the circumstances of this case are markedly different in one crucial  respect  
 there  is no suggestion  that Miss B did not know why she was making the payments. Ive 
thought about this. And I do take on board  the point that this payment  instruction in the 
HSBC branch for £196,456.88 was different in that Miss B appears to have given HSBC  a 
clear reason  for it. I also take on board that HSBC states Miss B attended on approximately  
four or five occasions in the days prior to 9 April 2015 to make this payment and that this 
was not, therefore,  a one-off attendance in branch where the transaction was processed with 
no questions asked.  
HSBC has referred me to an email from Mr B dated 19 February  2016  which  it states refers 
to its suggestion  that it had seen convincing purchase documentation from Miss B for this 
payment. HSBC has said that further documentation  is also referenced in an earlier email on 
15 February 2016. HSBC  has said that this suggests that the foreign exchange document 
was not the extent of the documentation considered  by HSBC.  It says this evidence  
counteracts any suggestions  that it might have automatically assumed therefore that Miss B 
was not at risk of financial harm from fraud solely on the basis  of the reason given by 
Miss B for the payments; and, it says,  this suggests it had access to a greater level of 
documentation than I have suggested.
Ive carefully considered  all of the points both parties  have made. Mr Bs emails from 15 and 
19 February 2016 do indicate  that HSBC told him around that time that Miss B had attended 
on four to five occasions with regards to this payment and that HSBC recalled Miss B said 
she was purchasing a property  in Ireland in which to retire;  the emails indicate HSBC  said it 
found all of this very plausible given  that Miss B was Irish. Also in the emails,  Mr B stated 
that HSBC has said (when asked  by Mr B) that it recollected that Miss B had produced a 
conveyance or correspondence  from a legal firm handling the purchase concerned.
I do understand why HSBC has made  these points.  However, where I cant  be sure about 
what happened, I need to make my decision based on the balance  of probabilities  in other 
words, based on what I think is more likely than not. 
Overall, as I have previously explained, I think that its most  likely that had HSBC  done what  
it should have  in June 2014,  that Miss B wouldnt have gone  to branch in April 2015 to 
request this payment. 
But even ignoring  that, even if I assume for the sake of argument that Miss B would have 
gone to make the payment in April 2015  regardless, HSBC ought to have been on high alert. 
If Miss B did attend four or five times this would indicate HSBC rightly had some  concerns,  
probably some significant ones. Its possible  that Miss B did produce paperwork that looked 
like legal  conveyancing for a property  in Ireland (or something like that). But bearing in mind  
she wasnt actually buying one, and she was scammed,  I am not persuaded I can say HSBC 
ought to have taken this paperwork at face value or not have recognised  some  flaw in it or 
what Miss B was saying   particularly as it should  by then have known, from the first 
transaction, that Miss B was vulnerable to scams.
 
Ref: DRN11134719So I am not persuaded Miss B would have  been  able to sufficiently allay HSBCs concerns if 
it had acted as it should  have  and that, again,  if Miss B had sought  to insist on the 
payment regardless,  HSBC could have refused to put the payment through until it was 
satisfied Miss B had obtained sufficient support  which  in my view would most likely have 
led to the transaction not being made  at all. (Or the bank could at least  have  documented its 
concerns in writing,  making it clear to Miss B that she was proceeding at her own risk, in 
which case this part of the complaint would probably  have failed.) Overall, therefore, I think 
its most  likely that, had HSBC done  what it should  have, Miss B would not have made  this 
second payment  and lost a further  £196,456.88.
I have taken into account what HSBC has said in response to my provisional decision  about 
Miss B being well known  in branch;  and that this, it says, is most likely an indication of a 
good relationship between its staff members and Miss B which  would have helped  it better  
assess Miss B in person. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think HSBC  did 
enough to protect  Miss B from fraud and scams in this case, and I am not persuaded the fact 
Miss B may have been well known in branch should change  the outcome of this particular 
case. 
ATM withdrawals in December 2014 and power of attorney
The remaining  issues  are the three  ATM  withdrawals  in December 2014 and the power  of 
attorney, which Ill address now, starting with the ATM withdrawals.
Mr B disputes that Miss B authorised three ATM withdrawals in Korea on 17 December 2014 
totalling £472.64. To be clear, I understand why Mr B, given Miss Bs general circumstances 
at the time, finds it difficult to accept she could have authorised  these. And I have found this 
a difficult point to decide, bearing  this in mind.
Records provided by HSBC show that these transactions were  timed at 11:56am,  11:58am  
and 11:59am  on 17 December  2014  in Seoul. And Mr B has provided boarding passes from 
which I am satisfied Miss B flew from London  to Dublin on 16 December 2014, leaving 
London at a scheduled time of 6.45pm, and arriving at Dublin at 8pm; returning on 5 January 
2015 from Dublin at a scheduled  time of 7.50pm  to arrive in London for 9.05pm. 
The question arises,  therefore, how the cash withdrawals in Seoul could possibly  have 
happened. I understand that Miss B probably  arrived in Dublin around 8pm on 16 December 
2014, and that the first withdrawal in Seoul was made the following morning at 11.56am, 
which is 15 hours 56 minutes after Miss B arrived in Dublin.
I do find it a coincidence  that these transactions  were  made  when Miss B was travelling. This 
doesnt prove that Miss B made them. But I do note that Miss B had family  connections  to 
Australia, and Seoul would  be a possible stop off point on a flight to Australia (perhaps  from 
Dublin). Also, I understand that Miss B didnt lose her card and still had it in her possession.  
Also, there were undisputed  card transactions on 15 December  2014  and then on 8 January 
2015 but no transactions between those dates apart  from the three  the estate of Miss B 
disputes. Its difficult to understand why only three transactions would have been made by 
fraudsters, if they were able to make them without the physical card,  and why they didnt 
proceed to drain  the account.  Overall,  and whilst this is a finely-balanced  decision, I am not 
persuaded I can fairly and reasonably conclude that Miss B didnt authorise these three cash  
transactions. I do not, therefore, uphold this part of the complaint, which I appreciate will 
come as disappointing news to Mr B.
Ref: DRN111347110I have taken into account the points  Mr B has made about this in response to my provisional 
decision. HSBC  has said that despite  extensive efforts  it has been unable  to retrieve  ATC  
logs. I know Mr B feels that these would have  been previously available, and I have thought 
about this. However,  I am still not persuaded to uphold the complaint about the ATM 
transactions for essentially the same  reasons  as previously explained. Im not persuaded the 
fact that these records arent available means  the outcome should fairly  change.  I 
understand why Mr B has referred to evidence suggesting there were a further two attempts 
made in Korea to withdraw money from Miss Bs account which were declined  but this still 
doesnt sufficiently  persuade me. There were still no further attempted  transactions beyond 
then until 8 January  2015 in the UK. I acknowledged  in my provisional decision that my 
decision on the ATM transactions is finely balanced. Overall, Im still not sufficiently 
persuaded its fair overall to say Miss B didnt authorise these transactions.
Mr B says that a power of attorney was granted  on 11 December 2015, and this was 
submitted to HSBC on 4 January 2016 but that access to Miss Bs account  was not granted 
until 23 February 2016. I do appreciate everything  Mr B has said about this. Ultimately, 
however, I think the distress or inconvenience caused by this delay was experienced by the 
estate and/or representative  of Miss B, not Miss B herself. We dont normally award 
compensation to representatives or estates  for non-financial or emotional losses,  as these 
are the sorts of losses  more naturally suffered by individual consumers. I also need to take 
into account that third parties, not HSBC,  were responsible for scamming Miss B. I can also 
see that HSBC wrote  on 24 February  2016 to apologise for the delays in setting up the 
power of attorney.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that HSBCs apology,  and the compensation for 
financial losses I have set out below, is fair and reasonable in this case   and that further  
compensation for the delay in setting up the power of attorney isnt warranted here.
what HSBC should  do to put things right
For the reasons  Ive explained, to put things right Im satisfied HSBC should,  so far as is 
reasonably practicable,  put the estate  of Miss B into the position it would have been in if the 
loss of the two in-branch  payments to scams had been avoided  as if the payments had 
never been put through. HSBC should also pay interest to compensate  the estate of Miss B 
for having been deprived of this money.
As I have previously indicated in my emails to the parties dated 1 March  2021, I have 
decided to award interest to be calculated at our normal rate of 8% simple per year.  I have 
taken on board both parties submissions around this. I think its difficult  to be sure exactly 
what would  have happened with the money.  In a situation like this I would typically award 8% 
simple per year and Im satisfied it is appropriate  here to reflect the range of decisions about 
spending and borrowing  a consumer may have made over a period  of time, the cost of 
borrowing the lost money  and the range of missed opportunities  they might have had  
including what sort of returns they could have got if theyd invested the money. Ive thought 
about the point that HSBC might say that this puts the estate in a better position to the 
banks detriment. Ive considered this but dont agree. Im not suggesting Miss B or her 
estate would have  otherwise invested and achieved a rate of 8%. But, given the average  
cost of borrowing  over time,  the fact the interest awarded is simple, not compounded, and it 
has long been  our approach that this is a suitable  rate to compensate for being deprived  of 
funds  I am satisfied it is appropriate here.  
Ref: DRN111347111I am therefore satisfied  that fair compensation is for HSBC to pay the estate of Miss B:
£37,500 to refund the first payment.  It should also refund any transaction charges 
that wouldnt have  been incurred but for the payment being made.
£196,456.88  to refund the second in branch payment. It should also refund any 
transaction charges that wouldnt  have  been  incurred but for the payment being 
made.
Interest on both payments calculated at 8% simple per year from the respective 
dates of loss to the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it 
should provide  the estate of Miss B with the appropriate tax deduction  certificate.
For a complaint about acts or omissions before 1 April 2019, and referred  to us before that 
date, I can make a money award  requiring a financial business to pay compensation of up to 
£150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I consider fair 
compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend the financial business  to pay the 
balance. This recommendation wont be part of my determination or award. It wont  bind the 
financial business. Itd be unlikely that the estate of Miss B can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. The estate of Miss B may want to consider  getting independent  
legal advice before  deciding  whether to accept my final decision.
my final decision
determination and award: I uphold this complaint. I consider that fair compensation requires 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to carry out the steps specified  above. I order it to do so  up to a 
maximum of £150,000 plus interest  at the rate of 8% simple per year from the dates of loss 
to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
Recommendation: As I consider fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I recommend HSBC 
UK Bank Plc also pays the balance of the full in-branch losses  (as specified  above)  also 
with interest at the same rate and for the same  period. 
For the avoidance of doubt, my (non-binding)  recommendation is that HSBC  pays  the above 
amounts in full even  though they exceed  the statutory cap. But in any event, it should note 
that, under our rules, interest is payable over and above the £150,000 cap (see DISP 3.7 of 
the Financial Conduct Authority  Handbook  for more information about  our awards).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of 
the estate of Miss B to accept or reject  my decision before 22 April 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1113471