K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited made  him settle  his finance on a 
loan for a faulty caravan  which he had voluntarily terminated
Background
In November 2017 Mr R bought a static caravan funded by a conditional sale agreement. 
The caravan  was leased out on his behalf by the company  managing the site. Mr R says that 
several items of furniture  were damaged while the caravan  was leased and a handle  was 
broken and hadnt been repaired as had been agreed. He also said some of the slabs  on the 
site were damaged.
Clydesdale say that Mr R enquired about voluntarily terminating his agreement in July 2018 
due to financial difficulties. However, he didnt pursue  this, but raised the possibility again in 
January 2019.  The agreement was voluntarily terminated in February 2019. This left Mr R 
owing half his debt.  It also says that Mr R had contacted  it in November 2018 about issues 
he had with the caravan. It asked for further  details, but received no reply.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She said Clydesdale  was only responsible 
for the quality of the goods at the point  at which theyre supplied. As such anything that was 
broken, or went missing after the caravan was supplied wasnt  the banks  responsibility.
Additionally, she didnt consider Clydesdale had any responsibility for the site since  it had 
only funded the purchase  of the caravan.  She said she gathered the park operator had been 
paid separately  for the site over and above the caravan. She though the only fault that the 
bank may be responsible  for was the faulty handle. The site owner  had confirmed this had 
been repaired on 15 May 2018.
Mr R didnt agree and said the site owners hadnt helped  fix the lock. He also said he had 
been advised by Clydesdale to voluntarily terminate the agreement  and that he wouldnt be 
liable for the debt. He also said he hadnt told the bank his payments were  going to be late
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Clydesdale is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN19568212The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr R, but I dont consider I can uphold  his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Clydesdale funded the purchase of the caravan, not the site and it has a responsibility for the 
state of the caravan at the point of sale.  It is not responsible for any issues that may have 
arisen from the subsequent letting of the caravan.
The only issue that I can see was a problem was the door handle and the site owner says 
this was repaired shortly  after it was raised by Mr R. It is difficult to see any basis that would 
allow Mr R to have rejected the caravan.  I am satisfied it was fit for purpose and the minor 
defect was repaired. Quite  simply,  I can see no basis for concluding  the caravan wasnt fit for 
purpose when  it was sold.
As far as the issue of voluntary termination  is concerned I am satisfied this was handled 
correctly by the bank and Mr R was made aware  of the consequences. As such  I cannot 
conclude it was mishandled. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1956821