K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt update  his address and didnt follow  his 
instructions for a new monthly repayment. He now has a default on his credit record.
background
Mr C says hes phoned Barclays in October 2017 to give it his new address and he agreed  a 
new monthly payment  of £250. He confirmed  his address and the direct  debit  details in 
writing. In October 2018 he discovered  the bank had registered a default. He phoned 
Barclays and he paid the full balance immediately.
Barclays said it didnt have any record of Mr Cs phone call and all its correspondence  was 
going to the address it had on record. It said Mr C didnt make  any payments into his 
account from July 2017  to February 2018. So in line with its terms and conditions it 
registered a default on the account.  
The adjudicator didnt think Barclays had done anything  wrong.  Barclays  issued three  
arrears notices to Mr C at his previous address prior to him moving. So she thought  he 
wouldve been aware his account  was in arrears. And after hed sent the letter to Barclays 
she thought he shouldve checked  payments were being made as hed requested. She could 
also see hed viewed  his credit report in December 2017 and she thought that shouldve  
alerted him that his account  was seven months  in arrears. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says he gave the bank his new address but it didnt  update  his records  so he didnt 
receive any of the warning notices. So he didnt realise Barclays had registered a default 
against his account.
Barclays doesnt have  a record of Mr Cs phone call so Im not able to make  any findings on 
that phone  call or what was said. He followed  the phone call up with a letter.  But it seems the 
bank didnt receive the letter so it continued to write to him at his old address. I know Mr C 
wont agree  with me but I cant find Barclays responsible for any failings of the postal 
service. 
I can understand why Mr C is frustrated and upset that Barclays  was communicating with 
him at his old address. But I agree with the adjudicator that he wouldve been aware his 
account was in arrears  before he moved.  The letters Barclays sent him during this time 
explained the risk of missed payments impacting on his credit record.  So I think  it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr C to check his statements to make sure his instructions had been 
carried out. And it seems  that he viewed his credit  record with one of the Credit Reference  
Agencies at the end of December 2017  when his account with Barclays  was seven  months 
in arrears. So I think he would reasonably  have  been aware that there was a risk it would be 
defaulted.
So for all those reasons  I dont think Barclays  did anything wrong  when it registered  a default 
against his account. And so I cant fairly ask it to remove that default.
Ref: DRN10370382my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1037038