K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs F says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard  (Barclays), mis-sold her 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think  Barclays made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this after all this time. Ive 
been given a copy of the credit card application form which was completed at the time and 
this includes a section  about PPI. In this section  there are boxes to complete to accept  or 
decline the cover. On Mrs Fs form I can see that a cross has been  placed in the yes box. If 
she didnt want to take out the PPI she could have placed a cross in the no box. And Mrs F 
has signed the form which suggests  that she agreed with everything  that had been  entered.  
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told I think  Barclays  made it clear that the policy 
was optional and that Mrs F agreed  to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt  
want it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs F so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she appears to have been  eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected by any of the 
main exclusions  to or limits on the policy, such as unusual working arrangements or suffering 
from a medical condition of which she was already aware.
Mrs F has told us she would receive six months  full pay, followed by six months half pay 
from her employer if she was too ill to work.  But this policy would have paid out for up to 12 
months which would be in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than she would 
receive full pay. And it would have provided  cover for the same length of time if Mrs F had 
lost her job. While  I note Mrs F has said she had some savings she could have used,  I think 
this policy  would have  given her the reassurance that her credit card repayments would be 
met if something was to go wrong.
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because:
Ref: DRN19126232Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs F, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs F any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1912623