K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Mr B complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy. 
background
Mrs M and Mr B bought  a regular premium MPPI policy in 2001  to protect their joint 
mortgage repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment. They  bought the policy 
in a Halifax branch.  They  were  both jointly covered under the policy  for accident,  sickness  
and unemployment,  for up to 24 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs M and Mr Bs complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, their complaint has been passed to me. Mrs M and Mr B said they 
werent told that PPI was optional and wouldve declined it had they been. Mrs M said the 
policy wasnt suitable because she wouldve  got six months full pay and six months  half pay 
from her employer if she was too sick to work.  She says she wasnt  told about the terms and 
benefits of the policy.  She says she never opted  to take PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs M and Mr Bs case. As some  of the evidence is 
either incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what  I think  is most  likely to have 
happened  based on whats available. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs M and Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the mortgage application Mrs M and Mr B completed to take out their mortgage. 
MPPI wasnt covered  on that form. They wouldve had to complete a separate  form to apply 
for the insurance  cover. Ive seen a copy of a MPPI application  that wasnt  signed by Mrs M 
and Mr B. Bank  of Scotland says this application  wasnt proceeded with and Mrs M and Mr B 
made an application in the branch at a later time. It no longer has a copy of this later 
application, but banks often only keep  records for six years, so Im not surprised it no longer 
has this.
Ive also seen the banks internal records giving details of the cover Bank of Scotland says 
Mrs M and Mr B took out. These  records were  made  at the time, long before this complaint  
was known about, so I think  they can be reasonably  relied  on now.
Ive looked at what Mrs M and Mr B have said about  how the policy  was sold.  But based on 
the limited information  I have, and what we know generally about how Bank  of Scotland  was 
selling these policies  around this time, I dont have  enough to fairly  conclude that Mrs M and 
Mr B werent aware of the optional  nature  of MPPI  and werent given a fair choice about  
taking it out. I think it just as likely that they were told it was optional and chose to take it out 
to protect  their mortgage repayments, completing separate paperwork to do so. So, I cant 
fairly uphold  Mrs M and Mr Bs complaint  on this ground.
Ref: DRN14297532I think Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mrs M and Mr B at a meeting in the 
bank. So it had to make sure the policy was suitable for their needs. It also had to give them 
enough information in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that they could make  an 
informed choice about whether to buy it.
I cant see that the policy looked  unsuitable for them. I say this because:
oThey appeared eligible to take out the policy.
oI cant see that it was inappropriate for the policy to be taken out in joint names 
given their joint circumstances.
oMr B said he wouldve got up to three months worth of sick pay through work. 
Mrs M said she wouldve got up to twelve months,  six months worth at full pay 
and six months worth  at half. T I think the policy wouldve been of use to them 
during what might  be a difficult time financially if one of them  wasnt  working. It 
wouldve provided them with valuable assurance that their home was protected if 
one of them was out of work.  The policy wouldve potentially  covered them for 
longer than their work related benefits, for up to 24 months  per successful claim.
oMrs M said her mother wouldve helped with their repayments. I accept she may 
have wanted to, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes, so I havent placed much reliance  on that. They  also say they had around 
3 months worth  of savings or insurances. The MPPI wouldve allowed them  to 
keep hold of their savings to pay other  household expenses. And I havent  been 
told they had duplicate insurance cover. So, I cant see that Mrs M and 
Mr Bs other means made the policy unsuitable.
oI cant see that they were affected by any of the main things the policy didnt  
cover. So, I dont think having better information  about these things wouldve 
changed their decision to buy MPPI as they couldve benefitted from everything 
the policy offered.
oThe policy appeared affordable and they couldve  cancelled  the monthly premium  
at any time without losing out financially.
I cant be sure that Mrs M and Mr B were given all the information  about the costs of the 
policy they shouldve  been. They paid around  £23.54 per month  for £388.50 per month  of 
cover. I think they wouldve understood they had to pay something  for MPPI and I cant  see 
that Mrs M and Mr B wouldve done anything different and decided against having the policy  
with clearer information.  I say this because the policy seemed suitable, competitively priced 
and affordable. 
Even taking  into account any problems with the sale, I think  it unlikely Mrs M and Mr B 
wouldve made a different  decision and not bought the policy. So, it follows that I dont  think 
they have lost out because of anything Bank of Scotland did wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN14297533Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M and Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1429753