K820x#14Complaint
Miss B has complained  that Nationwide Building  Society wont refund transactions, which 
she says she didnt  make.
Background
Miss B opened an account with Nationwide in April 2018.
On 8 May 2018,  she deposited £8,000 into her account. On the same  day, there was a card 
payment to a car dealership for £199, which was made with Miss Bs debit card.  There  was a 
second card payment to the same  car dealership on 10 May for £2,000.
On 15 May, there was an online  debit card payment to a money  transfer business for 
£4,002.90.
In June 2018, Miss B tried to make an online purchase,  but it wouldnt go through. She 
contacted Nationwide who told her there was a restriction on her card. She said thats when 
she found out about the payments to the car dealership  and the money transfer business. 
The restriction was put on the card because  the money transfer  business  attempted  to take 
further payments.
On 24 June 2018, Miss B raised  a fraud  complaint with Nationwide.  She said she hadnt  
made the three card payments. She asked Nationwide to refund the disputed transactions. 
She also asked it to reimburse her for the costs of her phone  calls.
Nationwide didnt think this was fraud  because:
Miss B still had her debit card and hadnt  reported it as lost or stolen
Miss B offered  no explanation for how a third party got hold of her card details
there were no balance  enquiries,  which indicated the person already knew  how much  
money was in the account
it had contacted the merchants (the car dealership and the money transfer business). 
Both could provide personal details for her, including her full name,  date of birth and 
mobile number.
Ref: DRN18963912Subsequently, Nationwide closed  her account.
Nationwide decided not to refund the disputed  transactions.  However,  it offered her £150 as 
a gesture of goodwill  because  it hadnt  given her notice it would be closing her account  and 
a call handler hadnt verified  her during one of her calls.
Miss B didnt think this was fair, so she asked this service to investigate.
Miss B told us she hadnt written down or recorded  her card details or the PIN. And she 
hadnt shared  her PIN or card with anyone else. She said she kept her card in her purse, 
which was kept in her bag or pocket. She told us she was attending college at the time the 
disputed transactions  were made.  At college,  she hung her coat on the coat rack. She said it 
was possible for others to access her purse if it were in her pocket.
She told us the £8,000 was a lump sum payment  for universal credit. She said lives alone  
with her two infant children and no-one knew she was receiving the lump sum payment.
An investigator looked into her complaint, but she didnt recommend upholding it. In 
summary, she felt unable to conclude that the card payments had been made fraudulently 
and was persuaded they were most likely made  and authorised by Miss B. 
Miss B didnt accept  the investigators  opinion and so this case has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Miss B and Nationwide have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those which  form the basis  of my 
decision. However, I can assure Miss B that Ive read the file, including her comments  and 
questions.
Im afraid I dont have  good news for Miss B. My review of the evidence  has led me to the 
same overall conclusions as those  reached by the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons.
In short,  Nationwide  is required  to refund  the amount of an unauthorised  transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017.  But 
Nationwide can hold Miss B liable for any disputed transactions  if the evidence suggests  that 
its more likely than not that she made or authorised them  herself.
As Miss B says she didnt make the disputed card payments then my primary  concern  is to 
come to a view about whether I think she did authorise the payments.
Ref: DRN18963913Nationwides notes  record that these were card  not present transactions. These are usually 
transactions which are made online or over the phone. The card number, the expiry  date and 
the three-digit security  number would have been  entered for the transactions  to take place. 
So, Im satisfied that Miss Bs debit card details were used to make the payments.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  
Nationwide to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence  suggests 
the payments  were  made  by 
Miss B, or someone else.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide  to conclude  that Miss B 
authorised the transactions. Ill explain why I think this.
The money transfer business  sent a voucher to Nationwide  with details of the transaction.  
The voucher  has Miss Bs name,  date of birth address  and the mobile phone number she 
was using at the time. It was the same number she provided to Nationwide during one of her 
calls. There was an email  address, but Miss B said this wasnt hers. The voucher  also shows  
that the money was transferred to the same car dealership.
This service contacted  the car dealership. It told us that a car was purchased in Miss Bs 
name. Her surname was misspelt on the form, but it seems this was probably a clerical error.  
The total cost was £7,727. It was paid for by the two debit  card payments and two transfers - 
one for £4,000 via the money transfer  business  and another for £1,528. 
This evidence is consistent with the evidence from the money transfer business.
More importantly, the car dealership confirmed  that the car was delivered to Miss Bs home 
address. Miss B said she lives alone  with her two children. On her own evidence, she is the 
only person who could have taken possession  of the car.
Miss B provided us with information from the money  business transfer, which  she said 
showed she didnt  authorise the transaction. But all this shows  is that she didnt have an 
account with it.
However, Ive thought  about whether a third party  made these transactions, because  the 
person who bought the car didnt need  the PIN or even the physical card  they just needed 
the card details. And her surname was misspelt, she said the email  address given to the car 
dealership was wrong and there  were  further  attempts by the money transfer business to 
take money which were  declined.
Miss B said she didnt share her card with anyone else. And she didnt keep a written note of 
the card details. According to what she told us, there was an opportunity for someone get 
hold of her card at college. However,  the person would still have needed her personal details 
for example, date of birth and her phone number, because these were given to the 
merchants. 
I dont think its likely  that an unknown  third party stole her card,  noted  down the details and 
then returned  the card to her purse or coat pocket. And it doesnt make  sense for a third 
party to register her mobile number with the money transfer business or the car dealership 
as the risk of being caught is higher. 
Ref: DRN18963914Also, I dont think its plausible that someone  she didnt know would ask for the car to be 
delivered to her address. I accept they would not want to use their own address  either.  But 
delivering the car to Miss Bs home address  was risky and besides  it would have  involved  
waiting around  outside her house for the delivery.  So, I dont think  this is what  happened  
either.
If a third party were involved, then I think it had to be someone who knew  her. But this isnt 
her version of events.  And she hasnt offered any evidence of how this might have happened 
 other  than at college.
Ive also considered the following evidence:
There were no balance  inquiries so whoever made  the payments knew there were sufficient 
funds in the account.
Miss B made two cash withdrawals on 14 May 2018 for £2,000 and £23 so she still had her 
card with her and was using it. Presumably,  she was told the balance  in her account, but she 
didnt question it.
Miss B made three calls to Nationwide asking  to change her PIN and Nationwide  sent her a 
PIN reminder twice.  She didnt say why she wanted  to change the PIN in the first two calls.  
In the third call, she said shed forgotten it, even though she had used it two weeks earlier  to 
make the cash withdrawals.  
Nationwide told Miss B about the restriction on her card in three phone calls and the call 
handlers offered  to find out why it was there,  but Miss B told them  not to worry, she didnt 
need to know  and would go into a local branch to find out. I thought  that was an odd 
response. I think most consumers would be worried and would want  to know why their card 
was restricted.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Miss B authorised the disputed  card 
payments. I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for Nationwide  to refuse a refund.
Ive considered Miss Bs complaint about  the cost of the calls to Nationwide and that it 
closed her account without giving her notice. Nationwide has offered to pay her £150 and I 
think this is fair.
Finally, I would like Miss B to know  that I have seen  the reports  on her dyslexia, and Ive 
noted her physical condition. Unfortunately, I dont consider  these are relevant factors  when 
considering whether she authorised the disputed transactions.
Im sorry  this isnt the outcome Miss B was waiting for, but I hope the reasons for my 
decision are clear.
Ref: DRN18963915My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
It remains open to Miss B to accept the offer of £150  from Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1896391