K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a car he acquired under a hire purchase (HP) agreement  with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited (Northridge)  was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr L acquired a used car in August 2017  from a dealership that I will call A.
The cash  price of the car (including extras) was £6,572. Mr L paid the dealership £100 cash 
deposit and agreed to finance the balance of £6,472 by way of a HP agreement with 
Northridge.
Under the terms of the HP agreement Mr L undertook, everything else being  equal, to pay 
59 monthly payments  of £135.37 and one payment  (in month 60) of £136.37 (inclusive  of an 
option to purchase  fee of £1).
Shortly after acquiring the car it broke  down. The car was towed to A where it was eventually  
repaired and returned to Mr L about a month  later.
Mr L complained about the above to Northridge  who in September  2017 wrote to him to 
apologise and to offer to refund the £100 deposit  he had paid A. This offer was in addition  to 
an offer made by A to refund  Mr L his first months  HP agreement payment of £136.37.  Mr L 
accepted both Northridges and As offer and received, in late September/early October 2017 
£236.37.
After the car broke down in August  2017,  Mr L says it suffered a number of further  faults 
including a major fault in September 2018 which A was unsuccessful in repairing.
Mr L complained about the above to Northridge  who in September  2018 wrote to him to say 
that it was prepared to reduce the settlement  sum payable under the HP agreement  by 
approximately £1,000 (down from £6,363.39 to £5,372.03). But it wasnt  prepared  to do 
anything further.
Mr L was unhappy  with Northridges offer so referred a complaint to our service.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld.  
In summary  the investigator said he was satisfied that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality 
when Mr L acquired  it and given the number of failed repairs to it Mr L should now be able to 
reject it. He then went on to outline what else Northridge  should  have  to do to fairly 
compensate Mr L. In summary this was:
end the HP agreement with nothing further  to pay 
ensure no adverse  information is recorded with credit reference agencies  in respect 
of the HP agreement  and that its now marked as settled
collect the car from Mr L at no cost to him
refund  Mr Ls deposit plus interest
refund  the 15th and subsequent  payments made by Mr L towards the agreement  plus 
interest (retaining the first 14 for the 14,000  miles travelled by Mr L)
pay Mr L £300 for the distress and inconvenience he has been  caused
Ref: DRN15368302refund  Mr L his breakdown recovery service costs (on evidence being provided)
refund  Mr L his independent inspection report costs (on evidence being provided)
Mr L responded to say that he accepted the investigators view.
Northridge responded to say that it didnt. In summary it said:
Mr Ls complaint against  it was settled in late September/early October 2017 when 
he accepted in full and final settlement £100  from it and £136.37  from A
it doesnt understand why it should be held liable  for repairs, and the quality  of the 
same, undertaken by A
if Mr L is unhappy with the quality of the repairs undertaken  by A then he should,  as 
advised by it in September 2018,  take his dissatisfaction up with A
insufficient weight  has been attached to the age and mileage of the car at the time of 
acquisition
insufficient weight  has been attached to the miles travelled, and the months passed, 
between each repair undertaken by A
Mr Ls independent inspection report is inconclusive and certainly doesnt suggest its 
liable for anything that was wrong,  or remains wrong, with the car
The investigator considered Northridges response  to his view but wasnt  persuaded to 
change his mind. Therefore the complaint was passed to me for review  and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2020. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would point out that where  the information  Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.  
Secondly I would  add that Ive read and considered  the whole file, but Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point its 
not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because  I dont think 
I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr L acquired his car under a HP agreement. The HP agreement is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints 
about it. The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been 
of satisfactory quality when acquired. If it wasnt then Northridge,  who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. 
The relevant  law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely 
include things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was acquired  by 
Mr L. The car here was around six years old and had completed about 70,000 miles. 
Ref: DRN15368303I think there were clearly problems  with this car when  Mr L acquired it and these 
problems meant the car was of unsatisfactory  quality  at the time of acquisition.  I say 
this because it isnt in dispute that only a few days after acquiring the car it broke 
down and required repairs (including  an engine rebuild) costing over £1,500  and the 
repairs took in the region of a month  to complete.
Now it would appear that Mr L consented to the above repairs and after complaining 
to Northridge he accepted, by way of compensation, £100 from Northridge and 
£136.37 from A. But that doesnt mean, as it appears Northridge might be 
suggesting, that Mr L is then prevented from complaining later on if a further fault 
occurs, or if the same fault reoccurs.
Following the above  repair a number  of further faults  occurred which were repaired 
by A at no cost to Mr L. 
In September  2018 Mr Ls car broke down again. Now based  on what both parties 
have said and submitted this resulted  in repairs (including a second  engine rebuild) 
costing in the region of £1,000.
But more  troubling  for Mr L was that almost immediately after having the car repaired 
and returned to him it broke down again.  
Now in respect of this breakdown Mr L has provided  a report  from the mechanic who 
attended roadside which states:
Found car cut out none start and loss of oil all over engine mbr just had extensive 
work earned  out on engine injectors out pump seals  etc and they have either  left bolt 
loose on 3-4 injector or over tightened  causing to snap bolt and has subsequently 
blown injectors out damaging seals and pipes etc and spraying oii every where 
Requires injectors repair cannot  recy as no mot on car garage  need to sort full lift as 
was sent out knowing  no mot on car
Diagnostic. [sic]
And an independent inspection report (as amended) which concluded:
We would conclude  the vehicle  has suffered from an over tightened bolt to injectors 
3 and 4 clamp, which has allowed the bolt to snap and compression has forced both 
the numbers 3 and 4 injectors out of the vehicles  cylinder head,  causing the engine 
oil loss and breaking  of the injector  clamps as evidence  by the [the mechanic  who 
attended roadside].
We consider this to be from failed  previous  repairs by [A].
On the balance of probability, the matter  should  be referred to [A] for their 
Consideration.
Now the above  (when  taken  together) leads me to conclude, regardless of the age of 
the car and the odometor reading at the time of acquisition, and regardless of the 
miles travelled by Mr L since acquisition, that on the balance of probabilities Mr L 
acquired a car in August  2017 that wasnt of satisfactory quality and A (on behalf of 
Northridge) has been unable to repair it despite two attempts to do so.
Ref: DRN15368304And because A (on behalf  of Northridge) have been  unable  to repair the car (despite  
two attempts to do so) Mr L can now fairly and reasonably reject the car. In this 
respect I would remind Northridge that the relevant legislation allows a business only 
one opportunity to repair  faults that are present on a vehicle when its acquired. 
For the sake of completeness I would also add that Im satisfied that in carrying  out 
the various repairs that it did, A was acting  as Northridges agent. So it would be 
entirely inappropriate for Mr L to have to take up his dissatisfaction  with A as 
Northridge suggests he should have to do.
I then went on to explain what I felt Northridge should have to do to fairly compensate  Mr L.
Mr L responded to say he accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Northridge responded to say that it didnt accept my provisional decision.  In summary it said 
that I had been  selective  in what I quoted  from the independent inspection report  and had, 
amongst other things,  ignored the time and mileage between the repairs/reported  faults.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, Im not persuaded that 
Northridge has added anything materially new for my consideration.
Although I quoted only one aspect of the independent inspection  report in my provisional  
decision I can confirm that I considered the entire content of that report before concluding  
what I did. I can also confirm that Ive have always been aware of the miles travelled by Mr L 
whilst in possession of the car.
I can see that Northridge now disputes  that the bolt to injectors 3 and 4 clamp  had been  
overtightened. But taking  everything together I remain of the view, for the reasons given in 
my provisional decision, that  on the balance  of probabilities Mr L acquired a car in 
August 2017 that wasnt of satisfactory  quality and that for this he should be fairly 
compensated as detailed  in my provisional decision and repeated below.
putting things right
As I say I think the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when Mr L acquired  it and because  of 
this I think its now fair for him to be able to reject it. So I find that Northridge must:
end the HP agreement with nothing further  to pay 
ensure no adverse  information is recorded with credit reference agencies  in respect 
of the HP agreement  and that its now marked as settled
collect the car from Mr L at no cost to him
Ref: DRN15368305I can see that between  August  2017  and September 2018 Mr L was without the car for a 
number of weeks. But equally  I note that for most  of this time A supplied  him with a courtesy  
car. I can also see that during this period Mr L was able to travel in the region of 14,000 
miles. So with this in mind  I find that Northridge must:
refund  all payments  made by Mr L towards the agreement bar the first 15 together 
with 8% annual  simple interest from the date of each payment until the date of 
settlement *. Allowing Northridge to retain the first 15 payments reflects the fact that 
Mr L has already had his first payment refunded  to him by A and that 14 monthly  
payments reflects  a fair cost for Mr L to have to pay for the 14,000  miles he was able 
to travel in the car. I would also add that I find that Northridge need  not return Mr Ls 
deposit because  it has already  done  so.
Having considered what both parties  have said and submitted Im satisfied that Mr L has 
suffered a degree  of distress and inconvenience  in having acquired a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and for this I find that Northridge  must:
pay Mr L £300
Mr L has also submitted that as a result of acquiring  a car that wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
he has incurred a number  of costs and suffered a number of losses.  Now Ive considered  
these very carefully  and I agree  with the investigator that he should  have  refunded his 
breakdown recovery  costs and his independent  inspection report cost.  So I find that 
Northridge must:
refund  Mr L the £170 (24 September 2018^), £50 (24 September  2018^), 
£50 (27 September 2018^) and £100  (25 July 2019^)  he incurred for breakdown 
recovery services  together  with 8% annual simple interest  from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement *
refund  Mr L the £300 (30 November 2019^)  he incurred in obtaining  an independent 
inspection on the car together  with 8% annual simple interest  from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement *
*HM Revenue & Customs requires N.I.I.B.  Group  Limited to take tax off this interest.  N.I.I.B.  
Group Limited must  give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr L asks 
for one.
^ Invoice date,  a copy of which has been seen by our service.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited must take the actions outlined  in the Putting things right section of 
this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.  
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1536830