K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Simplyhealth Access acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with her claim under a dental  insurance  plan. She wants  her claim paid in full.
background
Ms B had a dental insurance  policy  with Simplyhealth. She said that she was told she 
needed permanent  crowns in 2018 after falling and breaking several  teeth while fainting in 
2016. Before having the treatment, Ms B contacted Simplyhealth to check that the treatment 
would be paid in full. Ms B went ahead and paid the costs on a credit card, and claimed 
them from Simplyhealth. It rejected the claim.
Ms B complained to Simplyhealth. It said Ms B had been incorrectly  told that the treatment  
would be covered. It said that Ms B knew about  the damage to her teeth before taking out 
the policy, and she had been told when  the policy was taken out in 2017 that it wouldnt 
cover pre-existing  dental work which she knew about (or discussed or had been 
recommended) beforehand. Simplyhealth  said that when Ms B called in 2018, she told it that 
the temporary dental work needed  to be replaced and was incorrectly told that the 
permanent treatment would be covered;  it confirmed  that the claim was excluded  as it was 
for a pre-existing condition. It offered £150  compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by this incorrect information.
Ms B complained to us and said she was struggling financially due to having to pay for the 
dental treatment  herself  and interest  on the debt. The investigators view was that Ms Bs 
claim wasnt covered by the policy as the condition  of her teeth was pre-existing. And she 
noted that during the call with Simplyhealth, Ms B told it that she had to have the work  done 
when it said only some of the costs  would be covered. The investigator said Ms B had told 
her that she had to have  the work done, so she wouldve gone ahead  even if Simplyhealth  
had given the right information. This meant the claim wouldnt be paid. The investigator also 
thought £150 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by the loss of expectation and 
incorrect information was fair and reasonable. Ms B disagreed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy excludes  pre-existing  conditions, such as Ms Bs, from cover.  The permanent 
crowns are excluded as Ms B suffered the accident  before taking  out the policy  and only had 
a temporary repair  in place; its likely that she knew a permanent  repair  would be needed  in 
the future.  
My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes, but to put the consumer  back  into 
the position that they shouldve been in if the mistake hadnt been made. This means that in 
Ms Bs case, I have to think about  whether  shed  have  gone ahead with the treatment even if 
Simplyhealth had given  her the correct  information.
Ref: DRN16585802Ms B told the investigator that she needed  the work  done and she went  with the cheapest  
quote anyway,  so she wasnt sure what she wouldve done if Simplyhealth  had given  her the 
correct information.  I can understand Ms Bs position, but I think  as Ms B was advised  by her 
dentist that she needed  the work  to be done as the temporary repair  was failing, she 
wouldve had the treatment anyway. Indeed, this is what she told Simplyhealth when she first 
called and it said not all of the costs  would be covered.
This means  that Ms B didnt rely on the incorrect information in deciding  to have the 
treatment; she was going to do it either way in my view.  So I cant ask Simplyhealth to ignore 
the terms and conditions of the policy and pay Ms Bs claim.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset. But £150 is the type of award this 
service would expect, given Ms Bs loss of expectation  and the trouble and upset shes  
suffered. I note Ms B herself  hasnt disputed this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Ms B whether to 
accept the offer from Simplyhealth Access (if the money hasnt already been  paid).  Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Ms B to accept or reject 
my decision  before 19 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1658580