K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to cover the 
repayments on a loan in 2007.  Miss W says Black Horse Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Black Horse  had to make it clear to Miss W that she had a choice 
about it. But Miss W says she wasnt given a choice about the PPI, and didnt know  it had 
been added  to her loan.
Black Horses records suggest the PPI was sold over the phone. And its sent us a copy  of 
the phone  sales  script  it says was in use at the time.  This script highlights  that the loan has 
already been approved and gives the cost of the PPI. It then asks the customer  if they want 
to go ahead with purchasing the PPI and later confirms they have agreed to purchase it.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that this script  was largely followed during 
Miss Ws call with Black Horse. So I think Black Horse made it clear to Miss W that she had 
a choice about the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
Black Horse  recommended  the PPI to Miss W, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve received sick pay for.
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems  like the PPI 
would have been useful for Miss W if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Miss W off taking 
it out.
Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because:
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss W about  that. Because  Black Horse  didnt  tell 
Miss W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN11129832my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Miss W any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1112983