K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC denied  him access  to his funds in his UK current 
account when  he failed to answer  the banks security questions to the banks satisfaction.
He says it was impossible in the circumstances to answer the banks questions satisfactorily. 
As this decision concerns  the banks security  procedures, I will be leaving certain details 
unspecified. 
background
Ive taken Mr K to mean  that the banks security questions were  in part too difficult to answer 
properly. 
Mr K was abroad and trying to pay for medical  treatment hed recently undergone. There  
were two Lloyds accounts he could pay from, but Lloyds wouldnt let him pay from either.  
One of the accounts was based  outside the UK, so the ombudsman service  cant  look into 
that aspect of Mr Ks complaint.
The UK-based account was also blocked. Because Mr K failed to answer  the banks security 
questions to the banks satisfaction,  he was denied access  to the account for a time.  So he 
couldnt immediately  use the account  to pay for his medical treatment.
We have investigated  this part of Mr Ks complaint, about the UK account. Mr K would like to 
be compensated for the costs of the lengthy mobile phone call he made to the bank, as well 
as for the distress and trouble he suffered as a result of the call and of being denied access 
to his UK account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He concluded that the bank gave Mr K a 
reasonable chance of answering a number of security questions,  some  of which were easier 
than the particular question Mr K found too hard,  but Mr K answered only two of the 
questions correctly. 
Mr K has asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  He remains of the view 
that the banks  security  questions were unfair in his case. He also says he wasnt  aware the 
bank was asking  questions about both accounts, not just about one. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I havent  
upheld his complaint.
As I understand it, Lloyds first blocked the non-UK  account, but the block  then also applied  
to the UK account. 
Ive listened carefully  to the recording of the relevant phone conversation between Mr K and 
the banks employee.  Its clear to me that, although the employee said shed be looking at 
both accounts,  her security questions  concerned  only the non-UK account, and Mr Ks 
replies indicate he took that to be so. 
Ref: DRN18630002I dont have power to investigate what  happened regarding the non-UK account. But Ive 
considered whether Lloyds acted wrongly when it continued to block the UK account. This 
inevitably involves me considering what took place in the phone call.
I felt a lot of sympathy for Mr K when I listened  to the call. He was clearly  in a difficult,  
stressful situation. Nonetheless the bank  was entitled to follow its usual security procedures. 
Presumably the bank  regards it as being particularly important to adhere  to the procedures 
when the caller says the situation  is urgent and the bank thinks a degree of leniency is being  
asked for.
I think the banks  employee handled the call correctly. Progress was slow at times, but I think 
she was trying her best to be helpful  within the constraints of the process. I note she 
suggested Mr K use the banks app on his mobile phone, which  I assume would have been 
helpful if it had worked.  
The banks employee asked a number of security questions. One of the questions was 
treated as irrelevant: to name a particular  type of payment made from the account.  Mr K 
replied there  was none.
Of the other  questions, Mr K answered only two correctly. Of the questions Mr K didnt 
answer correctly, I think the answers to all but one of them  might reasonably be within  the 
recall of most account holders.  There was a more difficult question   the banks employee 
too accepted this was so  but it wasnt absurdly or impossibly difficult, and I dont think Mr K 
failed just because  he couldnt answer that one question correctly.  
I note that the banks  employee offered Mr K the chance to try and pass the security 
procedures again,  but he declined. 
To sum up, the bank  was entitled  to apply its usual security procedures, and I think they 
gave Mr K a reasonable opportunity to regain access to his account.  I dont  think the bank 
did anything wrong  in this case. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1863000