K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr T bought  the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  because:
 Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online  credit  card application process where  
PPI wouldve been offered  to Mr T. This shows that he wouldve  had to choose 
whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application. Eggs  
record of the application  data shows that Mr T selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
him aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it.
 Egg didnt recommend the policy to Mr T so it didnt have to check  if he needed it or 
whether it was suitable for him. So it didnt have to ask him about  any other means he 
might have  had to cover his repayments.  As Mr T chose to take the PPI, I think  he 
wanted to protect his repayments against illness and unemployment.
 Its possible the information Egg gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr T wouldve been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. The policy was also competitively priced  and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
 Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr T about  that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN11128882my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1112888