K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  his mortgage and related current account  (MCA)  with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. In particular, Mr L says:
he was forced to sell a parcel of land at below  market value to repay money owed to 
Barclays;
Barclays should have  frozen interest on the MCA  from September  2010 onwards, or 
consolidated the MCA overdraft into his mortgage debt, and transferred his mortgage 
onto an interest-only  basis. Mr L says that Barclays refusal to do this has cost him over 
£5,000 in additional interest.
The complaint has been brought on Mr Ls behalf  by his representative, Ms B and by his 
wife, Mrs L, who has dealt  with the correspondence.
background
Mr L has a mortgage  with Barclays taken out in 2008. A feature  of the account is a MCA, 
which allows  borrowers to have an overdraft facility at a limit which increases by the amount 
of capital repaid  from the balance of the mortgage.
In 2013 Mr L brought a complaint to us about  Barclays. He said that during a period when he 
was imprisoned from September 2010 onwards, Barclays failed to provide him with a 
payment holiday  or concession on his mortgage. On 29 October  2013  an ombudsman  
issued a decision on that complaint. He thought Mr L was out of time under our rules and so 
we couldnt look at this part of the complaint.
In 2018 Mr L raised this issue again.  He also complained that Barclays  had forced him to sell 
a parcel of land.  There was a third issue  that the mortgage balance had increased to over 
£65,000, despite a judge in Luton  County  Court saying that if he made  minimum payments 
to cover the interest, no arrears or charges would accrue.
As wed considered  at least one of these issues before, it was necessary for us to decide  
which parts  of the complaint we could look at. On 6 December 2019 an ombudsman issued 
a decision explaining which parts of the complaint he thought we could look at, and which  he 
thought we could not.
The ombudsman was satisfied that we could  look at the complaint about Mr L selling a 
parcel of land to repay Barclays. 
The ombudsman also decided that we could look at the complaint about Barclays  not 
freezing interest  on the MCA in 2010  or transferring the mortgage onto interest-only. 
Although wed decided in 2013 that this complaint was out of time, in 2019  the ombudsman  
was satisfied there had been exceptional circumstances to explain the delay. 
Mr L had also complained that Barclays  had acted in breach of a court order. The 
ombudsman decided that this part of the complaint was more suitable  to be considered  by 
the court which had made the order which Mr L said Barclays had breached. As a result, the 
ombudsman dismissed  that part of the complaint, which is allowed under our rules.
Ref: DRN14439152An investigator looked at the issues we could consider. He was satisfied that Barclays  had 
not forced Mr L to sell a parcel of land at a reduced value and that the decision  to sell was 
that of Mr L. 
The investigator also concluded that Barclays was under no obligation to freeze interest on 
the MCA. He also noted  that Barclays had refunded interest of £728.18  in May 2012 for 
interest on the MCA between September 2010 and September  2011.  He didnt think 
Barclays needed to do anything further.
The investigator was also satisfied that from January  2017,  after Barclays  received medical  
evidence in November  2016, the bank acknowledged Mr L was a vulnerable  customer  and 
has offered him assistance. He also noted that, even before the medical  evidence  was given 
to Barclays, the bank had looked  at ways it could help Mr L.
Mrs L replied to say that she didnt  agree,  either with the investigator or with the ombudsman  
who issued the decision in December 2019 about which parts  of the complaint we can 
consider. In summary, she says that we are required to follow the law and good insurance 
practice. 
Mrs L says that the Administrative court would be bound to find that the Limitation Act 
doesnt run against  Mr L and so his complaint regarding the banks failure  to give Mr L 
advice and to offer him a minimum monthly payment cannot be statute-barred. 
Mrs L also says we must look at the issue relating to the court  order  and says this will make  
the position of the Financial Ombudsman Service  very precarious. Mrs L wants  the 
complaint to be looked at by the same ombudsman who considered the case in 2013.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will begin by explaining that it is for us to 
decide how we will investigate complaints. It is not up to Mrs L to decide  which  ombudsman  
will review  the complaint. In any event,  the ombudsman who decided  the complaint in 2013 
has now retired.
Ive read the decision issued  by my fellow ombudsman on 6 December 2019. For the record, 
I confirm I agree with the conclusions reached by my ombudsman  in his decision about 
which parts  of the complaint we can consider. I also agree that the issue relating to an 
alleged breach of a court order  should  be referred back  to the court which  made the order.
.
Nowhere in the 6 December  2019  decision does the ombudsman  make any finding  that the 
complaint is time-barred. So although  Ive noted all the points Mrs L has made in relation the 
Limitation Act, those  points arent relevant  to the issues  in this complaint.
Turning to the issues we can consider, my findings  are as follows.
sale of land at an undervalue: The starting point  in any case  involving arrears is that 
lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly  those  facing financial hardship,  
fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage 
contract is that a lender has the right to receive  payment of the money  owed to it. 
Ref: DRN14439153The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (known  as MCOB)  
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. The 
Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML)  also has its own guidelines about what it expects 
lenders to do to comply  with MCOB, which mirror closely  the requirements  of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways  to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created  the arrears to begin  with is one that looks to be short-term and capable  of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways  to help, such transferring  a 
mortgage from capital  and interest  repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders  obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement  is affordable and sustainable. 
Ive reviewed Barclays contact notes. These show that from about  2016 onwards there were 
various proposals from Mr L to sell off or transfer  different parts  of the land, which affected 
Barclays security. The land comprised a farm and various barns. The plan was for these 
barns to be converted into homes. 
In March 2017 Mr L was looking  to sell part of the land and I note there were detailed  
discussions with Barclays over several months  about Mr Ls plans. This doesnt appear  to 
have been a straightforward transaction, but it seems that the issues  were  with the land 
registry rather than Barclays.  It wasnt until August 2017 that the land registry issues were 
resolved, with three pieces of land released  from the title, and two of the barns being 
transferred to Mr Ls sons.
After that, Barclays asked Mr L for his proposals  regarding the mortgage  arrears. Over the 
next few months  there were detailed discussions  about how these could be repaid. 
In September  2017 Barclays also discussed  the MCA with Mr L. The overdraft was about  
£26,400. This was on Barclays  Standard Variable Rate of 4.74%, but Barclays  was willing  to 
consolidate it into the mortgage,  which was on 0.84%. This was conditional on Mr Ls sons 
paying off the arrears  (a proposals put forward by Mr L), and switching the mortgage to 
interest-only on a temporary basis while Mr L was waiting for his medical  negligence claim 
(which he had previously told Barclays was worth several million pounds)  to be paid out.
But by late October 2017  Barclays was becoming  concerned. The bank had noted  that one 
of Mr Ls sons had put his barn up for sale. Mr L told Barclays that he would be prepared  to 
sell his property to pay off the mortgage  if Barclays still agreed to merge the MCA onto the 
mortgage account, agreeing an interest-only concession until the property  was sold.
Barclays agreed to do this if the arrears were cleared  (which  Mr L had previously told 
Barclays his sons were  prepared do).On 24 November 2017  the MCA overdraft was 
consolidated into the mortgage  account. Whilst this increased the balance  of the mortgage, it 
meant that the whole  debt was on the mortgage interest rate of 0.84%,  rather  than the 
overdraft being  at the rate of 4.74%. So this arrangement was clearly to Mr Ls advantage. 
The total monthly repayment  was then about £480, with £75 of that being  interest.
Im satisfied Barclays only agreed to this because Mr L had led the bank to believe  his sons  
would clear the arrears  and that his medical negligence claim was close to being finalised,  
following which Mr L was going to pay off the entire  mortgage debt.
Ref: DRN14439154By January 2018, having heard nothing further from Mr L since November  2017,  Barclays  
contacted him. Mr L said his medical  negligence claim was progressing well, but that his 
sons were no longer willing to help him. Mr L was unhappy that Barclays  was asking him for 
his proposals to repay the arrears.  But Barclays said that its position hadnt  changed;  rather, 
it was Mr Ls situation  which  had changed. Mr L said he could sell some equipment to pay 
towards the arrears.
In March 2018 Mr L said he could pay arrears of £7,000. On 30 April 2018 Barclays said it 
expected to receive £7,000 towards the arrears  and £60 per month to cover  interest,  
reviewable every three months. Barclays also wanted confirmation  from Mr Ls solicitors 
about the progress of the medical  negligence claim.  
I think this was a reasonable and legitimate request from Barclays,  given the length of time 
matters had been unresolved and the promises  Mr L had made to clear  the arrears.  I 
appreciate that it was not Mr Ls fault that his sons changed their minds about helping  him. 
But it wasnt  Barclays fault either, and the bank had acted in good faith on an expectation  
that the arrears  would be repaid. When it appeared that wasnt going to happen,  Im satisfied 
it was reasonable  for Barclays to ask Mr L what his alternative proposals were.
In July 2018 Mr L explained to Barclays that hed found a buyer for some land but there  were  
access issues which, if he couldnt  resolve them, would need  to be taken to court.  Mr L also 
said that his land and barn were worth about £484,000, but a developer had offered him 
£275,000. Mr L thought  the developer would buy other land from his sons to resolve the 
access issue.
Mr L also told Barclays that his negligence claim was going to take a long time to resolve. 
Mr L told Barclays he could be in receipt of funds in 3-4 weeks.  On 24 July 2018 Barclays 
agreed to allow Mr L 60 days to complete the sale of the land and barns.  Given  what  Mr L 
had told Barclays about the timescale,  I think this was fair. The sale did not complete and on 
1 October 2018 Barclays decided  to pursue litigation. Because  Mr L complained to us, no 
action has been  taken.
Having considered the timeline of events  (which Ive greatly condensed from Barclays  
contemporaneous notes), Im satisfied Barclays has applied  considerable forbearance  in its 
handling of this account. I appreciate the proposals  Mr L was putting forward were  
dependent on people and issues outside his control  his sons, a potential buyer and the 
outcome of his medical negligence claim. 
But in all the circumstances  Im satisfied Barclays did not apply any undue pressure or force 
Mr L to sell his land for less than he says it was worth. I can see that Barclays took into 
account what Mr L had told the bank about his medical and family issues and his 
vulnerability. As a result, Im satisfied the bank  gave Mr L considerable  leeway  concerning 
repayment of the arrears  over and above what it was required to do under MCOB.
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
freezing of interest on the MCA and transferring the mortgage  to interest-only:  Mr L 
believes Barclays should have frozen  interest on the MCA from September  2010 onwards, 
Im afraid I dont agree.
Ref: DRN14439155In September  2010 Mr L had unfortunately been sent to prison and was incarcerated  for 
approximately a year. I note that Barclays has, as a gesture of goodwill, refunded the 
interest charged to the MCA for the period September  2010  to September  2011, a total of 
£728.11. I think that this is fair. 
Given that Mr L started to use the MCA again from October  2011  onwards, I dont think  it 
would be fair or reasonable to expect Barclays to refund any further interest. The majority  of 
spending on the overdraft on the MCA happened  prior to September  2010,  and so Im 
satisfied Barclays is fairly  entitled to apply interest on that borrowing.
Im also not persuaded Barclays should have  transferred the mortgage onto interest-only 
from 2010 onwards,  or consolidated the MCA overdraft into the mortgage debt in 2010. A 
transfer to interest-only is intended to be a short-term measure, where  the borrowers 
financial difficulties are likely to be temporary. That doesnt seem to be the case  here. 
I am told by Mr L that he gave enough money  to his former partner  to enable her to pay the 
mortgage during  the period he was imprisoned, but he says she didnt do so. I also note that 
there appears to have  been a protracted dispute  with his former partner after that. 
The mortgage wasnt in arrears at the time Mr L went into prison, or at all during 2011 or 
2012, The mortgage account  statement for the period  ending  30 September  2013 shows that 
at this point there was a small amount of arrears, around £750. By 30 September  2014  that 
had been reduced to around £500. A year later,  by 30 September  2015, the arears  were 
around £3,500.  
During this period, Mr L was engaged in court action with his former partner  who lived in 
the property  where he was asking the court  to order her to pay the mortgage or vacate. 
Mr  L was also promising,  in July 2015, to clear the arrears,  but shortly  after that he told 
Barclays that he had suffered   a brain injury  in the 1980s.  At this point Barclays marked him 
as vulnerable and ensured his account  was dealt with by the appropriate team.
I can see that from this point onwards Barclays looked to see what help it could give Mr L, 
and in August  2015 the bank sought  further information about  his situation to see what  help 
could be given. But then shortly after that, in September 2019, Mr L began  to put forward to 
the bank his proposals about selling barns on the property as separate parcels so they could 
be converted into residences.
From September 2015 onwards, Barclays tried to engage with Mr L to find out more about 
his situation. In January 2016,  Barclays refunded 21 arrears fees to the mortgage account.  
and later suppressed  arrears charges. But it wasnt until 30 June 2016 that Mr L explained to 
Barclays about his financial situation  and about  his medical negligence case.
Ive set out earlier in this decision the events from 2016 onwards where  Mr L was putting 
forward proposals to clear the arrears over a period  of more than two years. Im satisfied 
Barclays agreed interest-only concessions based  on those proposals. I dont think  Barclays 
was required to do anything further.  Im also not persuaded that the bank was under any 
obligation to transfer the mortgage onto a permanent   interest-only basis, either from 2010 or 
at any time after that. For one thing, as Ive noted above, there were no arrears on the 
mortgage until the end of 2013, and no arrears which  would have given Barclays any cause 
for concern until the end of 2015. After that date, Barclays became  aware  that this was a 
complicated situation, where a third party not on the mortgage was living in the property, and 
with whom Mr L was in a legal dispute. 
Ref: DRN14439156The lending climate  had changed since the mortgage  was taken out in 2008. In 2015,  when 
the arrears were around £3,500, lenders were  under  stricter regulatory obligations in respect 
of switching a mortgage onto interest-only. Barclays could only do so if there was a credible 
repayment strategy such as savings,  bonds, or the sale of other  assets owned by the 
borrower other than the mortgaged property. The regulator also did not consider a 
speculative repayment  strategy to be an acceptable  repayment vehicle. 
Given that Mr L had no other assets, and that his repayment strategy was based  on being 
able to sell the land to a developer (and that this was hampered by access issues), Im 
satisfied that Barclays  not obliged to transfer  the mortgage onto a permanent interest-only 
basis. Im satisfied that Barclays offered interest-only concessions to allow  Mr L to repay the 
arrears and sell the land, but I dont think Barclays could  have  done  anything more in the 
circumstances.
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
I know this is not the outcome Mr L was hoping  for and I am sorry if this decision adds to his 
distress. It is now almost two years since Mr L told Barclays  that his medical  negligence 
claim was likely to take some time. I hope  that case is now at the point where Mr L is close  
to resolving it and receiving compensation from the health trust. I also sincerely  hope  he has 
been able to repair his relationship with his sons.  
I acknowledge Mr Ls strength of feeling  about this matter  and I understand he feels hes 
been treated unfairly by Barclays. But for the reasons  given above,  Im unable  to agree with 
him. After taking into consideration all the evidence  and arguments, I dont think Barclays  
has done anything  wrong or treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably. I accept Mr L is likely to 
disagree with my opinion,  but I assure  him Ive taken  note of everything hes said before 
reaching my decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1443915