K820x#14The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) treated her. She 
says that it promised refunds and compensation that it didnt pay her and it refused to listen 
to call recordings when she asked it to.
Miss G initially raised a mis-sale complaint about her packaged account. Our investigator  
looked into that complaint and didnt uphold it. Miss G accepted  the investigators findings on 
that, so I havent  considered it any further.
The details of the complaint in question in relation to the service Barclays has provided  have  
been thoroughly  covered by our investigator. Those  issues  are well known to both parties, so 
I wont repeat them  again here. Instead  Ill focus on giving  the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome  reached by the investigator so Im not upholding 
Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
-Its evident  that there  was some confusion  between  Miss G and Barclays about the 
reference numbers  for her complaints,  and several complaints  were  logged as duplicates. 
I certainly dont underestimate the inconvenience that this caused, or the additional stress  
Miss G felt as a result. But Barclays has paid her £200 compensation  in recognition  of 
this  and I think  thats fair.
-Miss G says she was promised a refund  of packaged account fees and compensation for 
a duplicate  mobile phone insurance  policy shed been paying for, as well as 
reimbursement of taxi fares to and from the hospital as her complaints had meant shed 
had to attend several times. But having  reviewed everything  Barclays  has provided,  and 
carefully having thought about  what Miss G said, Im havent  seen enough  to conclude 
that Barclays  promised  to pay this. Barclays has provided evidence of its complaint  files 
and customer  contact  notes between it and Miss G and I note it also asked  Miss G for 
details of when  these promises were made. Barclays notes suggest it listened  to several 
calls between its members of staff and Miss G, and there was no mention of the 
payments that Miss G says it promised to make.  
-I acknowledge  that I havent  listened  to the calls between Miss G and Barclays,  and I 
accept that there may have been some other calls. But Miss G hasnt been  able to give 
Barclays the information it needs  to locate any further  calls.  In the absence of that 
information, I need to rely on what I have seen. Im satisfied that Barclays has gone  to a 
reasonable effort to retrieve and listen to the important calls in order  to understand what  
happened with Miss Gs complaints. And on balance,  I think  its more likely than not that 
Barclays call notes and complaint files are a fair representation  of the calls that took 
place, and the steps Barclays  took to try to put things right.  
Ref: DRN16648582-As Ive said, Barclays has paid Miss G £200  compensation in recognition  of the service 
issues shes had whilst  her complaints were being  dealt with. I understand that Miss G 
feels the stress  the situation has caused  warrants a great deal more than that. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I havent seen enough  for me to decide that Barclays  needs  to 
pay Miss G anything  else.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss G but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this 
complaint so I dont  require Barclays  to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint against  Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2020
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1664858