K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Hastings Insurance Services Limited  hasnt paid the refund hes due following his 
cancellation of his car insurance policy.
background
In my provisional decision of 22 August 2019  (a copy of which  Ive attached  to this final 
decision), I explained why I didnt intend  to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C has given us some comments in response to my provisional decision.  Hastings  hasnt 
responded.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C hasnt given us any comments on the specific conclusions I set out in my provisional  
decision. Nor has he given us any new information to look at in connection  with it. And I 
havent seen anything else to make me think I should change those conclusions.
So, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C has given us some more general  comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Among other  things, he says Ive only dealt with a small part of his dispute with Hastings and 
havent looked at the circumstances  of a car crash and subsequent complaint against the 
insurer that led to the policy cancellation.
When Mr C complained to us in November 2018 his complaint  form said Hastings hadnt 
paid him the refund he was due following his cancellation of his car insurance policy. So 
thats the complaint Ive looked at here.  I understand Mr C had an earlier complaint against 
the insurer about an open claim on his car insurance  and its impact  on his no claims 
discount. But weve already looked  at that complaint and given Mr C our answer  on it. And 
that complaint  has now been closed.
Ive looked at the other comments Mr C has given us following my provisional decision.  But 
none of them affect the conclusions I set out in it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision of 22 August 2019, I dont uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11652832COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 22 AUGUST 2019
complaint
Mr C says Hastings Insurance  Services Limited  hasnt paid the refund hes due following  his 
cancellation of his car insurance policy.
background
Mr C tried to cancel his car insurance by email in May 2018. Hastings was unable to do this by email 
but failed to tell Mr C. 
In July 2018,  following a complaint from Mr C, Hastings emailed him to say it had cancelled his policy 
with effect from May 2018  and he was due a refund of £346.09. It said this would  be issued back to 
the card the policy was purchased  from within  3-5 working days. Hastings  also apologised  to Mr C for 
any distress  and inconvenience hed been caused and said it would send him a cheque for £30 as 
compensation.
Mr Cs refund, which was processed in two parts, wasnt paid until 2 August 2018 (when Hastings  
says it refunded Mr C £290.16) and 7 September 2018 (when Hastings says it refunded Mr C £55.93). 
In recognition of its poor service in processing these payments, Hastings paid Mr C £25 in 
compensation.
Mr C says he hasnt received the refund and so he complained to us. The investigator who looked  at 
Mr Cs complaint didnt uphold it. He said Hastings  had shown us evidence the refund had been paid. 
He also said he thought the amounts Hastings  had paid Mr C as compensation for the delays in 
processing his cancellation  and his refund were fair and reasonable.  So he said he wouldnt be asking 
Hastings to take any further  action.
Mr C is unhappy with the answer our investigator  has given. He says that, of the two accounts  
Hastings says it credited,  one is a dormant account and he doesnt recognise  the other.  So his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont  intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint. From  what  Ive seen so far, I think its likely 
Hastings has paid Mr C the refund he was due for his cancelled insurance.
I know this isnt the answer Mr C was hoping for but I hope the reasons Im about to give to explain 
why Ive reached the conclusions  I have  on the information  Ive got at the moment. 
Hastings has shown us a transaction  history  from its internal records showing payments of £290.16 
and £55.93 being issued to Mr C on 2 August 2018 and 7 September 2018.  It has also shown us 
details of a payment processed (with  an acquirer  reference number)  on 3 August 2018 to a debit card 
ending in 027 for £290.16 and of another  payment  processed (with  an acquirer reference number) 
on 10 September 2018  to another debit card ending in 121  for £55.93.  This amounts to the full 
refund Hastings  says Mr C was owed of £346.09 for the policy cancellation. 
When Mr C said he hadnt got the refund,  it seems  Hastings  advised him he should  contact his bank 
with the acquirer reference numbers  it gave him if the transactions didnt show  on his available 
balances. It also said that, if his bank disputed either of the transactions, it would ask its banking 
department to investigate further. Im not aware  Mr C has asked his bank to verify these  transactions
Ref: DRN11652833But, in response to Hastings evidence  (and as Ive already mentioned),  Mr C says one of these  
accounts is dormant and he doesnt recognise the other one.
Weve recently  asked  Hastings  if it could  clarify why the refund  was made  in the two amounts of 
£290.16 and £55.93, why these payments were sent to two different  card accounts and how it knows 
these were Mr Cs accounts.
Hastings has replied  saying that, under its anti-money laundering procedures, its systems  will only 
allow it to issue a refund  up to the amount  that was previously paid on a particular card. It says in Mr 
Cs case, the card ending 027  had previously been  used  for a payment of £290.16, so this was the 
most it could  issue back to this card. It says it used the card ending  121 for the balance of £55.93 
because the details for this card were given  to it by Mr C on 23 August 2017 when it says he added 
breakdown cover to his policy and also made it a multi-car one. It says Mr C wouldve given it these 
details by typing them into the keypad on his phone and that they mustve been accurate, otherwise 
payment couldnt have  been  taken from the card.
So, from all of the information Ive got so far, it seems  to me likely  Hastings has paid Mr C the refund it 
owes him to two card accounts he had, as it says it did. And thats the reason why Im not upholding 
Mr Cs complaint. If, however, Mr C has any evidence or information to show anything Ive said above 
is likely  to be incorrect, I will re-consider the conclusions Ive reached so far.
Finally, I should also say I think the compensation Hastings has paid Mr C for its delays in processing  
both his policy  cancellation  and the refund  he was due are fair and reasonable and so, as things 
stand, I dont  think  it needs  to do anything else.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont intend to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. But I will look at any other 
comments or evidence I get by 5 September 2019 before reaching a final decision on this complaint.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1165283