K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the monthly payments  hes paying under his finance agreement with 
Lancaster Motor  Company Limited.  Hes also unhappy that the finance agreement states the 
incorrect initial mileage and a lower guaranteed future value  (GFV) than what  was shown on 
the vehicle offer sheet produced by the business.
background 
In November 2017 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  
agreement. Prior to entering into the agreement,  he visited  the dealership and was given a  
vehicle offer sheet.  This detailed monthly  payments of £287.53. When  Mr H received his 
finance agreement, he noticed  that his monthly  payments were £356.40. He also noticed 
that the initial mileage  was incorrectly  recorded.
Mr H queried this with the finance company, who advised him that it had processed the 
agreement in line with the dealerships instructions. Mr H complained  to the dealership. It 
said that Mr H had signed the finance agreement which clearly stated the monthly 
repayments amount.  It acknowledged that it had made an error  with the mileage and said it 
would contact the finance company for this to be corrected.
Mr H was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.  He wants  the business  
to honour the monthly payment he was shown on the offer sheet and to have the mileage on 
the agreement  corrected.
During the course of the investigation by this service, the dealership  said the agreement 
hadnt been amended  with the correct mileage. It offered to pay £200 to Mr H to cover  the 
difference between  the original mileage and the mileage as incorrectly  recorded.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said he didnt think the business  had 
done anything  wrong with the monthly repayments  or the GFV, but said that a mistake had 
been made with the mileage. She felt the offer of £200 in relation to the error with the 
mileage was fair.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the figures on the offer sheet  were meant to be a quotation and 
he felt that the dealership had misled  him. He was unhappy with the explanation provided by 
the dealership  as to why the figures on the offer sheet  werent  reflected in the agreement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the figures  on the offer sheet  are different  to the figures  in the 
finance agreement.
It might be helpful if I explain what the offer sheet is. Its not a quotation and its not legally 
binding. Its a record of discussions  between the dealership  and the consumer which 
generally includes (amongst the things)  the price  of the car, the deposit (if any),  the trade in 
value (if any) and the monthly payments. Although the offer sheet gives  an indication  of the 
amount to be financed, it doesnt include the interest  which applies to the borrowing.
Ref: DRN10968222Ive looked at the offer sheet which was given to Mr H. At the bottom it clearly states that it 
isnt a finance quotation or an offer for credit.
Ive taken into account what Mr H has said about  the different explanations hes received as 
to why his monthly  payments were  more than he expected. In its final response,  the 
business said it had discussed monthly  options including and excluding  a deposit. It said that 
Mr H decided not to place a deposit  and this was why his monthly payments were different. 
The business didnt  mention interest  on the borrowing.  This was something  the investigator  
noted. I can see that theres  no provision for interest on the offer sheet, and Im satisfied that 
this is another  reason for the offer sheet  and the finance agreement  to differ.
Mr H has said that he wasnt expecting a higher  monthly payment than that shown on the 
offer sheet.  However,  I can see that both the repayment amount and the interest rate are 
clearly stated on the finance  agreement.  I wouldve expected Mr H to have read the finance  
agreement before he signed  it. I appreciate  that Mr H has said he didnt have time to check  
everything before he signed, but ultimately  its up to him to ensure that hes read the terms 
and conditions before  he agrees to be bound by them.
I can see that the GFV of the car is lower on the agreement than it is on the offer sheet. Im 
satisfied that the difference can be accounted  for by the absence of interest  from the offer 
sheet. Once the interest was calculated by the finance company, which resulted in the 
monthly payment  going up, the balloon payment decreased. This is in line with what  Id 
expect to see.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im not persuaded that the business  has done anything  wrong with 
the monthly payments or the GFV. In relation to the mileage, this is a clear error and the 
business has acknowledged  this as such.  It has calculated the effect of the error by 
reference to the rate per mile and has offered Mr H a sum in excess of this. I think  the offer 
is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I partially uphold  this complaint in relation to the mileage aspect 
only. Lancaster Motor  Company Limited must  pay £200 to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1096822