K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that The Governor  and Company of the Bank of Ireland (BoI), 
trading as Bristol  & West Building Society, mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
In 1992, Mr and Mrs J were sold a regular premium  PPI policy  in a meeting when they were 
taking out a new mortgage with BoI. The policy  covered the repayments on their mortgage 
for up to twelve months if Mr J was unable to work because  of an accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with 
the adjudicator,  so the case has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs J say that they didnt ask for the PPI cover and it wasnt made clear it was 
optional. They say they were told they needed  to take it to secure their mortgage. But I need 
to bear in mind  that this sale took place over twenty five years  ago and memories of what  
was said in meetings  like this do tend to fade with time. So in these circumstances, I need to 
look at all the information available to me to decide  what I think is most likely to have 
happened then.
Unfortunately, BoI doesnt have a record of what was said at the meeting where the PPI was 
sold. And it doesnt still have copies of all the paperwork  which  was completed  at the time. 
Thats not particularly  surprising given how long ago this all took place.  But BoI has provided 
a copy of the mortgage offer it sent to Mr and Mrs J. And I can see that theres no mention of 
PPI being a requirement for getting  the loan. BoI has also provided a sample copy  of the 
separate PPI application form and direct debit  mandate which it says Mr and Mrs J would 
have needed to complete and sign for the PPI policy.
So whilst its possible that the BoI representative  that Mr and Mrs J spoke to did wrongly 
mislead them into thinking they had to take PPI, on balance, I think  its more likely that they 
knew at the time they had a choice  about this and actively decided to take out the policy.  But 
I can understand why they may not be able to recall  this now.
Ref: DRN16908512BoI says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J and Ive taken this to be the case. This 
means it needed to ensure that the cover  was suitable for them.  With so little information 
available about  this sale, I dont know how it did this. But from what  I know  of their 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason  why it wouldnt have been suitable.  I say 
this because:
The PPI only covered Mr J. He appears  to have been eligible for the policy and not 
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations.
Mr J says he was entitled to some sick pay and had other ways in which  he could have 
made his mortgage repayments if he wasnt able to work. But this policy would  have paid 
out in addition to these other means. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  and 
one where ones home is potentially at risk. So I still think  that Mr and Mrs J would have  
valued the extra security that the policy gave them.
Ive no reason to think that the policy was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs J. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  they could have cancelled it if it no longer met their needs.
BoI also needed  to ensure that Mr and Mrs J were given enough information for them  to 
decide if they wanted to take the PPI policy out. I think its possible that the information BoI 
gave them wasnt as good as it could have  been. But for much the same reasons that I dont 
think the policy was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better  information  would have 
changed their minds about  taking it. I think theyd still have thought  it gave them useful 
protection at an affordable price.
In responding  to our adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs Js representative has also said it was 
unfair that BoI didnt disclose  to them the commission it would expect to earn on the 
premiums they paid. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
BoI has provided information that shows Mr and Mrs Js mortgage was taken  out in 1992 
and ended in 2007. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
Ref: DRN16908513I dont think BoI needed to tell Mr and Mrs J at the time the commission  it earned on the 
policy. So it doesnt  now need to refund any of this commission  to them.
In summary,  Mr and Mrs J dont seem to have lost out by anything which BoI may have done 
wrong when selling this PPI policy  to them.
Ive carefully thought  about everything that Mr and Mrs J and their representative have said, 
but this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint against  
The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1690851