K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to her in an
irresponsible manner.
background
The  background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
28 November 2019, an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  Sunny shouldnt have given any of the 
loans to Ms R and how it should  put matters right. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Ms R accepted my provisional decision. Sunny didnt agree with my provisional decision and 
reiterated an earlier offer to uphold Ms Rs complaint in relation to loan seven onwards. In 
summary, Sunny said:
Ms R could  afford the repayments.
There was no evidence that she had difficulty managing her money. 
Her repayment record was good.  
The pattern of borrowing isnt the only factor to be considered. 
Sunny  previously offered to uphold Ms Rs complaint from loan seven.  
Its incorrect to assume that the number of loans  it gave Ms R impaired her ability to 
access mainstream credit. 
This service hadnt previously received Sunnys  response to the adjudicators view. We put 
the offer it contained to Ms R, who didnt accept it. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Sunny has offered  to uphold Ms Rs complaint from loan seven onwards, Ill restrict my 
comments to loans  one to six. 
It isnt sufficient for Sunny to be satisfied  that Ms R could repay  the loans on a strict pounds 
and pence calculation. Ms R needed to be able to repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
Ref: DRN16897812Im satisfied that Ms Rs existing credit commitments, which Sunny was aware of, indicated 
that it was likely that Ms R couldnt afford  to repay  further borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Sunny is right to say that its loans arent  the only thing  a prospective lender would take into 
account in deciding whether to give Ms R credit. But I think  its fair to say that from loan six, 
the pattern  of lending, in itself, indicated  that Ms R was having problems managing  her 
money. Shed borrowed from Sunny every  month  except one for six months and had only 
recently repaid  loan one when she took out loan six. 
Ive noted all that Sunny said but I remain of the view that, in the particular circumstances 
here, Sunny shouldnt  have given Ms R any of the loans. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Ms Rs complaint.  I now require  Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading
 as Sunny to:
    refund all interest and charges Ms R paid on loans one to 11 and write 
off any outstanding interest and charges on loans 12, 13 and 14;
    pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  
from the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
    deduct from the refund above any capital sum still due in relation to loans 
12, 13 and 14 and pay Ms R the balance, if any. If there remains  an 
outstanding balance owed to Sunny in relation to loans 12, 13 and 14, Sunny 
should agree  an affordable repayment  plan with Ms R;
    remove adverse  entries about  loans  one to five from Ms Rs credit  file.
    the number  of loans  taken from loan six onwards means any information  
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans six to 11 should 
be removed from Ms Rs credit file. All entries about loans 12, 13 and 14 
should be removed  once the capital  owing on those loans has been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give 
Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16897813extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms R complains that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Ms R took out 14 instalment loans with Sunny between  January 2016 and February 2017. 
She repaid loans  one to 11 but didnt repay loans 12, 13 and 14. A summary of Ms Rs 
lending with Sunny  is attached as an appendix to this decision.
Ms R says that she couldnt  afford to repay  the loans. She wants compensation, interest  
and reference  to miss-sold loans removed from her credit file.
One of our adjudicators  assessed Ms Rs complaint. She said that Sunny shouldnt have 
given Ms R loans  three to 14 and she set out what Sunny should do to put matters right.  
We didnt receive a substantive response from Sunny. So, the complaint was passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should  have carried  out proportionate checks to make  sure Ms R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These  factors  
include:
    the lower  a customers  income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher  repayment from a particular  level of income);
    the greater  the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
of time during  which a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN16897814There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be 
able to make  repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well 
as without having to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise,  that a borrower wont be able to make  
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
Sunny carried out certain checks before deciding to lend to Ms R. In assessing  
affordability, it relied on information provided by Ms R and credit  reference agencies. 
Information prospective lenders can obtain  from credit searches isnt in the same  detail  
that Ms R can see from her own credit report. But Sunnys records show that at the time 
Ms R applied for loan one it could see that Ms Rs regular  credit commitment  not 
including any mortgage  was £895. At that time, Ms R said that her monthly  income was 
£1,363. So Ms R was already committed to spend  approximately 65% of her stated income 
on repaying what she owed. I think that is a significant  amount of her stated income. I think  
that its more likely  than not that Ms R couldnt afford to repay  further borrowing in a 
sustainable way. So, I dont think that Sunny should  have given Ms R loan one.
Sunny gave Ms R loan two about  three weeks after loan one. The information it gathered 
showed that Ms R had outstanding balances of over £11,000 on active and defaulted 
payday loans.  So, the information Sunny gathered indicated that Ms R was having  problems 
managing her money. Ms Rs financial position didnt appear to improve as Sunnys records 
show that her outstanding  debt was broadly the same for loans two to five. I dont think that 
Sunny should  have  given  Ms R loans two to five as the information it had indicated that she 
couldnt afford to repay further borrowing.
Ive also looked  at whether theres a point at which the overall pattern of Ms Rs lending 
history with Sunny indicates, in itself, that further borrowing wasnt  sustainable. Given  the 
particular circumstances  of Ms Rs case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say 
this because by then, Ms R had been borrowing from Sunny for approaching  six months.  
Shed only recently  repaid loan one and hadnt  yet repaid loans four and five. Sunny ought  
to have realised it was more likely than not Ms R was having to borrow  further to cover the 
hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that M Rs indebtedness 
wasnt getting better.
Ms R wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan  14 was taken  
out over 13 months  after Ms Rs first loan with Sunny. Whilst the amount of the loans 
fluctuated, they didnt  reduce substantially.  Ms R had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Sunny.
Ref: DRN16897815I think that Ms R lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because the sheer number of loans was likely  to have  had negative  implications 
on Ms Rs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So, in addition to loans one to five, Im also intending to uphold the complaint about 
loans six to 14 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right   what I intend  to direct Sunny  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms R paid on loans one to 11 and write  off 
any outstanding  interest  and charges  on loans  12, 13 and 14;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from 
the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any capital  sum still due in relation to loans 
12, 13 and 14 and pay Ms R the balance, if any. If there  remains  an 
outstanding balance owed to Sunny in relation to loans 12, 13 and 14, 
Sunny should  agree  an affordable repayment plan with Ms R;
remove adverse entries  about  loans one to five from Ms Rs credit file.
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans six to 11 
should be removed  from Ms Rs credit file. All entries about loans 12, 13 
and 14 should  be removed once the capital owing on those loans has 
been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give
Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if she asks for one.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Ms Rs complaint.  I intend to direct  Elevate
Credit International  Limited, trading as Sunny to take the steps Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN16897816appendix  Ms Rs borrowing from Sunny
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
14 January 2016 500 17 June 2017
229 January 2016 50 8 March 2016
329 February 2016 50 8 March 2016
423 March 2016 100 23 June 2016
527 April 2016 150 23 June 2016
618 June 2016 150 15 October 2016
729 June 2016 350 9 November 2016
820 August 2016 150 9 November 2016
926 October 2016 200 9 November 2016
1018 November 2016 200 26 February 2017
1128 November 2016 100 2 February 2017
126 January 2017 250
132 February 2017 150
1427 February 2017 150
Ref: DRN1689781