K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt  carry out a full investigation  after hed 
been a victim of fraud in July 2018.
background
Mr M has an account with Barclays. In July 2018  someone was able to transfer £3,800 from 
his account to an unknown third party.  Barclays refunded the money  within 24 hours and 
confirmed to Mr M theyd carried out a full investigation. Theyd identified a call to them by 
someone who wasnt Mr M. As they didnt believe Mr M had authorised  the transaction, he 
was immediately refunded.
Mr M was concerned to find out later that Barclays hadnt carried  out a full investigation at all. 
This meant hed not been aware his mobile  was subject to a SIM replacement attack. He was 
upset at the impact  this lack of investigation had on him as he wasnt  able to sort things out with 
his mobile phone provider or to take steps  to protect  himself  against further potential fraud.
Barclays accepted  theyd not been clear with Mr M and paid him £100 in compensation for 
this issue. Mr M didnt  believe  this took any account of what  had happened so brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Whilst his complaint was with us, Mr M made us aware of other concerns:
As Barclays had replaced his debit card, a payment  for his car insurance renewal had 
not been made.  His wife had later been stopped for driving  without car insurance;
Barclays had charged him £20 for a letter which he could use to testify to his good 
character. Not only was the information  in the letter  incorrect  but it also stated  it couldnt  
be used with third parties;
Barclays had set up protective registration on Mr Ms behalf but had never told him this 
only lasted for 13 months. If hed known this, hed have taken additional  steps himself to 
protect himself and his family; and
A further  search by Barclays showing on his credit record.
Our investigator felt overall Barclays had been wrong to tell Mr M theyd done a full 
investigation when  that wasnt the case.  She did think £100 was sufficient compensation. 
She also asked Barclays  to refund £20 to Mr M. This is what hed been  charged for the letter  
which he couldnt use. She didnt believe other  issues were down to Barclays.
Mr M was angry at this outcome. Thered  been  a massive impact  on him and his family  
because of the fraud that had taken  place. He felt Barclays should compensate him for this.
I cant see a formal response being  received  from Barclays.
Mr Ms complaint has been  referred to an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a slightly 
different conclusion about the compensation I believe is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN12852002Firstly, its worth emphasising that Mr M was a victim of fraud.  This is always a very horrible 
thing to have happen to you and can be extremely distressing. Barclays  very quickly  realised  
Mr M had never authorised the transfer of £3,800 and refunded him promptly.  But its really 
the fallout from this that Mr M is complaining  about. 
There are a number of threads which Ive considered in coming to my conclusion.  To assist 
us in considering  all of Mr Ms concerns at once,  Barclays allowed us to consider these even 
though theyd not issued  a final response  on all aspects.
full investigation
Mr M felt Barclays had led him to believe theyd  carried out a full investigation as thats what 
theyd told him. He found out this wasnt the case.  I can absolutely appreciate how annoying 
this was. This meant  that Mr M missed  the opportunity  to sort out the problems hed had with 
his mobile phone provider.
But I dont fully agree  with that. Even though  Mr M didnt  find out for months that hed been  a 
victim of a SIM swap fraud, he could still pursue a complaint with his mobile phone  provider  
whenever he wished.  They  may have limited  evidence available but if thered been  a 
problem causing  the SIM swap, he should still be able to pursue this.
I agree  though that being told thered  been  a full investigation would imply this had taken 
place. Ive looked at what Barclays obligations  are when someone doesnt make  or 
authorise transactions. Under the Payment Services Regulations,  theyre required to repay 
the money. This was done,  as Ive seen, promptly.  
Theres no requirement under the PSRs to investigate how the fraud happened  certainly 
its good practice for banks to advise customers what steps they can take to protect 
themselves. Theyre also required by the regulator  to maintain secure payment systems and 
through codes  of practice take steps to identify fraudulent patterns and prevent fraud  where 
possible. And theyre required  to participate  in any relevant police investigation; but I think  it 
would be a mistake to expect every  bank to fully investigate how every  single  incident  of 
fraud took place.
Experience shows that this would just not work. Banks wont always  be able to identify how 
the fraud took place, nor would it be right to expect them to have the resource to do so.
That said,  I agree  its better  not to imply thered been a full investigation when there  hadnt  
been. I believe here Barclays misled Mr M. Im not completely sure though what  difference 
an investigation would have made  to Mr M. Yes, he would  have  been  able to pursue a 
complaint against  his mobile phone provider and perhaps take steps  to protect  himself  
against any future fraud. But unfortunately  and I really dont wish to sound flippant here  
fraud happens. For many victims of fraud theres  nothing they could  have done  to stop what 
happened, happening.
car insurance
Mr Ms car insurance  lapsed in November 2018  as his insurance  provider no longer held the 
right card details to allow them to process the payment. This was nearly four months  after 
Mr Ms card had been replaced.
Ref: DRN12852003Ive seen quite  a bit of correspondence from his insurance company to Mr M about the 
policies he and his wife held with them for their two cars. There  were  numerous letters to 
Mr M in November  2018 before the insurance policy was due for renewal. These quoted  the 
old card details and asked him to get in touch if these had changed for any reason.
I appreciate Mr M has said his post was being intercepted   as part of the earlier  fraud. Id 
be surprised if this was the case as fraudsters  dont tend to carry out long-term  ID disruption 
in this way. They instead would use Mr Ms details  to take out further  loans and financial 
agreements.  
Im also pretty sure that when Barclays re-issued the debit card this would  have come  with 
accompanying correspondence.  This would have most  likely  advised how he needed to 
update records  with those companies  who may have been  using old card details to process 
regular payments.  
Overall I dont think it would be fair to say it was Barclays fault Mr M didnt update his card 
details with his insurance provider. I appreciate how upsetting it must have been that, when  
Mrs M was stopped by the police, Mr M only then discovered his car insurance had lapsed. 
But it wouldnt be right to ask Barclays to pay any additional compensation related to this 
issue. Some of these  issues should be directed towards Mr Ms car insurance provider.
Barclays letter
Mr M asked  Barclays  for a letter that he could use to testify to his good character. 
Particularly he wanted to show  he didnt miss out on paying direct debits or other  regular 
commitments. The letter  he got didnt really  go as far as hed have liked (and was incorrect  
about the time hed held an account  with Barclays). He also noticed  it stated:
It may not be disclosed to or relied  upon by any third party
I agree  this statement would immediately have  caused some  dismay to Mr M. Id have been 
tempted to ignore this advice as its clear Barclays knew  why hed requested  this letter,  so I 
believe theyd given  him the required authority. But I completely understand why Mr M 
wasnt pleased with this as offering a solution to his issue.
protective registration
Following Mr Ms fraudulent transaction and realising this had occurred through  some kind of 
ID takeover, Barclays took the responsible step of registering Mr Ms details with the industry 
fraud-related database.  This alerts financial institutions to take additional steps to verify ID 
when assessing  any applications made in Mr Ms name. Mr M has complained  Barclays  
didnt notify him that this registration only lasted for 13 months.
I agree  it would have  been helpful  for them to have confirmed this. But, in fact, not all banks 
would have made the protective registration  in the first place, so I need to balance  the steps  
Barclay did take.  
additional reference on credit record
Barclays explained this additional check, that Mr M had spotted,  was done as part of their 
regulatory requirements. This couldnt be removed but other institutions reviewing Mr Ms 
credit record  wouldnt  be surprised to note this.
Ref: DRN12852004I believe Mr M has accepted this is not a further attempt at fraud.
compensation
Barclays gave Mr M £100 compensation which was paid to his current  account in May 2019. 
I dont think this is sufficient knowing Barclays misled  him and the impact  this has had on 
him. Im increasing this compensation and asking Barclays to pay Mr M a further  £250.
Like our investigator I see no reason why Mr M should pay for a letter which  wasnt what 
hed hoped for. Not only should Mr M get the original £20 back  but Ive added a further  £30 
to this as additional compensation.
Im sure Mr M will consider this is still insufficient. Ive read his detailed response of 28 October 
2019 to our investigator. The point Id stress  is that Barclays  did not cause the fraud  to happen  
initially. Mr M was undoubtedly the victim  and I can understand  his anger. Perhaps some  of 
this should be directed  towards the perpetrator rather  than his bank. I appreciate  as that party 
is unknown, its easier to direct any anger towards the bank involved in the fraud. Mr Ms 
response isnt that unusual  in the circumstances. But that doesnt mean I believe it would be 
fair Barclays provide  much higher levels of compensation for what  happened.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Mr M:
£250 additional compensation for what happened; and
£50 as a refund for the costs of the letter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1285200