K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about a business  programme he purchased  which he funded with a fixed 
sum loan from Omni Capital Retail Finance  Limited  (Omni).
background
Mr I attended a three day business and marketing seminar  with a supplier (who I shall call 
IM) in April 2018. At the end of the seminar Mr I signed up to a business programme with 
IM at a cost of around £10,000. The cost of the programme was funded  by a fixed sum loan 
from Omni  repayable over 48 months  at £250.11  per month.  
In November 2018 Mr I called Omni to express  his dissatisfaction with the programme. He 
said IM promised to give his money back at the original seminar  if he did not see results  for 
his business and he hadnt  seen  any results.  Mr I also contacted IM between November 
2018 and February  2019  raising a number of concerns including:
Despite following everything hed been  told on the programme he did not achieve the 
kind of results he was led to believe were attainable. 
The coaches that were working  with him lacked the necessary experience  and 
expertise.
The training  that was available could have been found for free online. 
The seminars and one to one sessions included with the programme  were  just more  
attempts at upselling further material. 
He was pressured into signing up to the programme at the three day seminar having 
been told it would not be available once  he left. 
He wasnt made  aware  he was signing  up to a fixed sum loan with Omni  and thought  
he could just cancel  at any time. 
He wasnt offered any kind of cooling off period as the supply agreement was non-
cancellable. 
Mr I asked IM to cancel the course and free him from his obligations. 
IM offered  to change  the coach  that Mr I was working with and suggested he engage better 
with the other material on offer. But it said Mr Is contract for repayments was with Omni so 
he should take matters up with it if he wanted  to be released from his repayment obligations. 
Omni looked into a complaint for Mr I but didnt uphold it. Omni said Mr I would  have been  
given an opportunity to read the terms and conditions of the programme before signing up to 
it so he should  reasonably  have  known what he was getting into. It said IM had also offered 
to change coaches for Mr I.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2021 explaining why I didnt plan to uphold  Mr Is 
complaint. I said:
The programme 
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint I am 
required to take into account relevant legislation. I think Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75)  is relevant here. 
Ref: DRN16482252The general effect of section  75 is that if Mr I has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against IM, he can bring a like claim against  the credit  provider  
in this case, Omni. Provided certain  conditions are met. For completeness,  Im 
satisfied those conditions  are met here and there has been  no suggestion they ae 
not. 
Taking into account what section 75 says, Ive thought about whether Omni acted 
fairly in declining Mr Is claim and complaint.
Mr I complains that he hasnt achieved the desired results from the programme 
despite following  everything hes been  told to do. Ive assumed results  here to mean 
an increase in consumer demand,  ergo increased  revenue, for the business Mr I was 
looking to start up. Ive not been  provided with anything that persuades me IM 
specifically guaranteed Mr I these kind of results from the programme, especially 
within six months of what looks to be at least a five year commitment  to the 
programme. There is nothing in the marketing material  provided  by both Mr I and 
Omni thats  provides such a guarantee. And although the signed sales  contract has 
not been provided here, I have seen  versions  of this used in other cases  from around 
the time Mr I purchased  the programme that make no such guarantee either. I think 
its most  likely the other sales  contracts Ive seen  are the kind of thing Mr I would 
have signed as they appear to be the same as the blank front sheet of the contract 
he has provided us with. 
Ive also considered what Mr I has said about there being a money back guarantee. 
From what  Mr I has said during the course  of our investigation however I think  its 
most likely he assumed that because the three day seminar  he attended came with 
such a guarantee,  that the programme  would too. Again, Ive not seen anything in 
any of the available paperwork that includes such a guarantee. 
That being  said,  oral representations made by a supplier about a service can also 
become contractual terms so Ive considered what Mr I has said about what he was 
told on the three day seminar about the programme. I wasnt  of course present at the 
seminar so I have to decide what Mr I was most likely told based on all of the 
available evidence. 
Ive reviewed a recording  of a seminar like the one Mr I attended around a similar  
time. I know  this wasnt the seminar Mr I attended but I think it gives  an idea of the 
kind of things that may have been spoken about.  During the many hours of footage 
provided its fair to say that IM does use clever sales techniques to sell its product. 
Ive not however seen any specific statements made  about guarantees relating to the 
first few months  of the programme that I think would likely become contractual  terms. 
The paperwork and marketing material Ive seen  explain the programme was to run 
for five years  with lifetime access to some of the elements of the course. Ive 
explained already that Mr I was six months  into the programme when he asked to 
cancel it. It seems unlikely IM would have  offered  a moneyback guarantee after such  
a short  period of time given the programme looks to have been a long term 
commitment. And the contracts  Ive seen from IM explain that it is not cancellable. 
Mr I has said its unfair  that the programme  was not cancellable. The Consumer 
Contracts (Information,  Cancellation And Additional Charges) Regulations 2013, 
which is the relevant  legislation on this, says that products or services purchased off-
Ref: DRN16482253premises should come  with a 14 day period within which they can be cancelled (or 
an extended period of up to a year if cancellation rights are not provided  by the 
supplier). It was an implied term in Mr Is contract if it was concluded  off premises,  
that he could receive  a refund if he cancelled  within  that time limit. And the effect of a 
valid cancellation meant an ancillary  contract  such as a finance agreement like Mr 
Is  could be automatically terminated.  Ive not however  seen evidence  that IM sold 
the course to Mr I off-premises and from what Ive been provided by Omni its owners 
look to have been leasing the premises it traded from. So, I dont think  the 
cancellation provisions  of The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation And 
Additional Charges) Regulations  2013  would apply here. This means Mr I was not 
able to cancel  the course  within 14 days of taking it out. Mr I could have withdrawn  
from the finance agreement in this period but he would have had to repay  it in full in 
order to do this. 
Mr I is also unhappy with the coaches  on the course and the other different elements 
of it. He said the coaches were not qualified,  and their services were  not up to 
scratch. He also said the training material could  have been sourced elsewhere  for 
free and some of the other one to one sessions were just exercises in further 
upselling. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into Mr Is contract  with IM that any 
service provided would be done  so with reasonable care and skill. I believe 
reasonable care and skill to include what a reasonably competent  provider  of the 
same kind of service would provide. It appears  from the emails  I have seen that Mr I 
was being given the material and coaching he was promised (along with alternatives  
when he made IM aware he wasnt happy with his coach). How someone perceives 
something like coaching  can be rather subjective  and just because Mr I felt the 
coaching was not up to his expectations  doesnt mean it wasnt  provided with 
reasonable care and skill. I note his concerns about the qualifications  of the coaches  
but the programme was not affiliated or regulated by an academic  body  and Im not 
aware of any requirement for any specific qualifications to teach it. Ive not seen 
evidence in this case that persuades me the service provided  by IM fell below that of 
a reasonably competent provider.
Im sure its possible  there was material that Mr I could have obtained elsewhere. IM 
acknowledges this in some of its marketing material. But I dont think  this means the 
course wasnt provided with reasonable care and skill given this made up just one 
part of the overall programme.  
Overall Ive not seen  sufficient evidence to make me think IM breached  its contract 
with Mr I or misrepresented  anything  about  the service  that was being provided. It 
follows that I dont  find Omni was wrong to turn down Mr Is claim under section 75 of 
the CCA  in respect of these matters.  
The finance  agreement
Mr I said the finance  agreement was mis-sold to him because he was not made  
aware he was entering into a four year fixed sum loan with Omni. As Ive explained 
already, I can look at claims about  misrepresentation  against Omni because  of the 
way section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act works. Also, under section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act I can consider things said or done by IM about the programme 
and the finance before Mr I entered into the finance  agreement as if they had been 
Ref: DRN16482254said or done by Omni (including things  such as being pressured into entering into the 
agreement). 
Ive considered the likelihood in this case that Mr I was not aware he had taken out a 
finance agreement  with Omni. Mr I has said that his recollection of being told about  
finance was that on the second day of the course he was told he would be credit 
checked to see if he would be suitable  for it  which he said he passed. He said the 
next thing he knew he opened an email confirming  hed signed up to a credit 
agreement with Omni. Mr I has said he does not recall agreeing to sign up to the 
finance agreement  and he only signed an agreement for the programme at the very 
end of the final day of the seminar.  So, he said he doesnt see how he could  already  
have been signed up to finance before this. 
Omni has provided an account  of the application  process it said Mr I would have 
been taken through for the loan and has provided screen grabs  of certain points  in 
this process. Its clear from this Mr I provided  details about  his occupation and 
income  which  is consistent with Mr Is account that he was going to be credit 
checked and was asked for information about his circumstances.  
Omni has said Mr I successfully passed the credit check which  again is consistent  
with Mr Is recollections. It has said however  that because of the size of the loan, Mr 
Is application was referred to one of its underwriters who determined it was 
necessary to speak  to Mr I directly  before deciding if the application was approved. 
Omni has explained how this process works  and has provided us with screen  grabs 
which it said confirms Mr I would have been taken through additional underwriting 
questions at some point between 9:30am and 12:30  pm on the third day of the 
seminar. Im persuaded  by Omnis explanation and the records  it has provided that 
these additional  underwriting steps were  taken. So, it seems likely that Mr I must  
have had some idea that he was further  along  the application process than only 
being credit  checked.   
Mr I said he received an email from Omni  confirming  he had signed up to a finance 
agreement while he was still on the seminar. If this was not Mr Is understanding  of 
what had happened, I think its likely he would have got in touch with Omni or 
questioned with IM why hed been signed up to finance he never agreed  to. 
Furthermore, the screen grabs Omni has provided show  that Mr I would have  had to 
electronically confirm  over email that hed read the loan agreement  and that he 
agreed to its terms before  the agreement would  have  gone live. I find it unlikely that 
the first contact Mr I received from Omni  was to say hed signed  up to a loan 
agreement given the process that Omni has described and the evidence it has 
provided in support of this.  It seems  most  likely the email Mr I received was to 
confirm his application had been  accepted  but I think  he would still have had to 
review and sign the documents within that email in order  to enter  into the loan 
agreement. 
Its possible Mr I did sign the agreement to take out the programme after he signed  
up with Omni. But I dont think this makes  it any less likely he didnt agree to enter  
into a finance  agreement with Omni. 
Ive also considered Mr Is actions after the finance  agreement commenced. Mr I 
made enquiries of Omni in July 2018  about the method of payment being used. So, 
he must have known of his relationship  with Omni  at that point. And when he first 
Ref: DRN16482255complained to Omni, it was about the sale of the course and not the fact he didnt 
know hed entered  into a finance agreement. I think If Mr I had not been  aware  that 
hed committed to a £10,000 five year finance agreement, he would in all likelihood  
have complained about this earlier than he did.  
All things  considered, I dont think the available  evidence  supports what Mr I has said 
about not being told he was entering into a loan agreement with Omni.  
Ive thought finally about what  Mr I said about  being pressured into the loan. Mr I said 
he was told that the offer to sign up to the course  would  not be available to him after 
the end of the third day of the seminar. He said this put him under pressure to sign 
up to it. Mr I has also said however that the buzz of the room,  with lots of people 
signing up and bells ringing whenever this happened also encouraged him to sign up. 
IM said to Mr I that it would not have operated a now or never policy  and it would 
have been possible  to sign up to the programme again at another seminar.  
From what  I have  seen it does look like most  people  that sign up to programme are 
encouraged to do so during the three  day seminar. However from the seminar  videos 
Ive seen and the way the sale of the programme has been described  by Mr I, it looks  
like the programme (and the option  of financing it with a loan) is introduced  at some 
point on the second day with time given to think about  it overnight  between days  two 
and three.  Also, as I set out earlier, Mr Is application  for the loan took place over the 
course of two days so it doesnt look like he was rushed into it. 
With everything considered Ive not seen enough  to make me think  Mr I entered into 
the loan agreement as a result of undue pressure placed upon him. 
Ive noted that Mr I has said he is experiencing financial difficulties  and the matter 
has caused him considerable distress to the point it has affected his health.  I would 
expect Omni  to keep  its obligations under CONC 7.3.4 in mind  and ensure it treats  
Mr I with forbearance and due consideration in its future dealings with him, both in 
respect of his arrears  and a suitable  way forward.  
Omni agreed  with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mr I did not agree with my provisional  decision.  He said,  in summary:
He accepts he signed up for the programme with IM but disputes  ever signing the 
finance agreement  with Omni. He said there  is no evidence he signed  the agreement  
electronically.
Its not fair that he was being asked  to sign up for and understand contracts while  
also trying  to learn on the course. He found  this to be overwhelming. 
The people that signed him up were not accredited financial sales  people. 
Its not right that he was pressured into signing up for something that had no cooling 
off period and falsely guaranteed results.  
The complaint therefore returns to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  very carefully about all of 
Ref: DRN16482256the additional points and evidence that Mr I has sent me since  I issued my provisional 
decision. 
Mr I has provided  us with a more detailed recollection of events from the time Omni has said 
he signed up to the loan agreement with it. These  recollections are largely consistent in both 
timing and substance  with the evidence Omni provided. Mr Is recollections  differ  however 
between around  9:30 and 13:30  on 22 April 2018. Mr I said he received a request for 
documents for a loan application  at around  9:38 but said he ignored this as the course  for 
that day had just started. Omni on the other hand said it spoke with Mr I sometime between 
9:30 and 12:30 where anything it required would have been provided. Mr I said at 12:26 he 
received confirmation  from Omni he had been accepted for a loan and needed to click and 
login to Omnis platform for managing  loan application documents to complete the signing of 
the contracts.  Omni  has said the loan agreement was electronically  signed by Mr I at13:21.  
At 13:27 Mr I said he received confirmation  all contracts had been signed.  
I accept there are some gaps in the story  here and Omni has not been  able to evidence the 
call it had with Mr I, nor what exact  information it actually requested  from him. Ive weighed 
up the evidence  that has been provided  however and any circumstantial evidence to decide 
what I think most likely  happened. 
If, as Mr I has suggested, he did not sign the agreement, then either  another party  must  
have signed it electronically using his login details on Omnis platform, or Omni simply 
started the agreement without obtaining  any consent. If that were the case, and Mr I 
received confirmation  from Omni that he had signed a loan agreement  for around £10,000 
which he was unaware of, I think its most likely  he would have got straight in touch with 
Omni to question why hed received  such confirmation. Omnis contact records however 
show Mr I didnt contact it until July 2018 asking for details about its payment processing  
provider  which itself suggests Mr I must have had some idea of his relationship with Omni. 
Also, Mr I did not complain that he wasnt aware hed signed up to a finance agreement  with 
Omni until much later into his complaint  with it. 
On the balance of probabilities, I think Mr I did sign the finance  agreement electronically 
when Omni  said he did. 
I recognise that Mr I signed up for both the programme and the finance agreement while he 
was learning on the three day course. He has said he found this all to be overwhelming. 
Omnis records show that Mr Is application  for finance was submitted around 18:00  on 21 
April which is around the same time he said he signed the contract  for the programme with 
IM. At this point in time Mr I would have  already  provided details to IM about his income, 
occupation and other personal details and hes said he was told he was being credit checked  
at this point too. The contract  Mr I signed  with IM set out he could either pay £9,650 (plus 
VAT) in full or pay monthly. So, even if there  was a lot to take in for Mr I, I think he would 
likely have known that if he wasnt paying for the course upfront himself, it was going  to have 
be paid for by some other means,  whether  that was a monthly commitment to either  IM or a 
third party. And it seems Mr I was happy to make such  a commitment.  
Mr I has said this was because he assumed he would have a cooling off period  within  which 
he could cancel. Mr I has not said he was told by IM that hed have such a period. And as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  the law didnt afford him such  protection  either in this 
particular case.  So, I dont find Mr Is assumptions  to be the result of anything IM told him 
that was wrong.  The terms  and conditions of the contract  Mr I signed with IM also made 
Ref: DRN16482257clear there were no cancellation  rights. They  were  all contained on one page  so I dont think 
it would  have been unduly onerous  on Mr I to read them before he signed the contract. 
Mr I has said the representatives that sold the finance to him were not accredited financial 
sales people. IM was regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority and had permission to 
carry out credit broking  at the time of the sale. So, it was authorised to make introductions to 
lenders, present or offer regulated credit agreements and assist an individual with the 
preparatory work for a regulated credit agreement.  
I explained in my provisional decision  why I didnt think IM would have guaranteed results in 
the short term. Ive not seen anything  that changes my mind on this point. 
From what  Mr I has said I fully accept  that IM probably whips  up quite the atmosphere at its 
seminars to sell its product to its customers. And I can see why this might make the product 
look attractive to a prospective buyer.  Having considered  however what  Omni is responsible 
for Ive not seen  enough to make  me think the finance agreement  or the programme were 
mis-sold to Mr I or that the service  provided  was done so without reasonable care and skill 
and my decision remains that I do not uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Is 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2021.
Michael Ball
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1648225