K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Eldon Insurance Services Ltd made an error which  meant that her 
motor insurance policy  was cancelled. 
background
After getting a quote online, Miss B called Eldon to buy the policy. She told Eldons advisor 
that she didnt  think she had five years valid no claims discount (NCD). Shed put that on 
an online  form in error,  as shed misunderstood the online question. The advisor said if she 
hadnt claimed for a year she would have  a years NCD. Miss B said in that case  she had 
five years NCD. Actually she had no NCD at the time.
When Miss B couldnt provide proof of her NCD  later on, the policy was cancelled. The 
insurer wasnt happy to accept zero NCD. Miss B was asked to pay the rest of the premium 
and was charged a cancellation fee. She says the new insurance she had to buy was more 
expensive than expected due to the cancellation  on her record.
Eldon accepted that its advisor had made an error.  It waived the premium for the policy and 
add-on products,  a direct debit fee, a broker fee and the cancellation charge. It arranged for 
the insurer to remove  the cancellation  record against Miss Bs name. Miss B wasnt happy 
with Eldons offer, given the cost of her new policy. Eldon then offered her £75 compensation 
for inconvenience. And it sent her a letter to show her new insurer  which said that the 
cancellation was due to its error. Miss B still wasnt satisfied, so she complained to us.
One of our investigators  considered Miss Bs complaint.  He thought  Eldon should  pay Miss B 
a further £75. Miss B didnt accept his view. She wanted Eldon  to refund the extra  cost of her 
new premium  (as the new insurer hadnt) and pay her more compensation. She said the 
investigator hadnt taken into account the threatening nature of the letters Eldon had sent 
her. Eldon said it had waived the £199 that Miss B owed,  plus its £75 cancellation charge, 
and paid her £75 compensation. It said that amounted to £349, which it thought was 
reasonable.
The investigator advised Miss B that her new insurer should have amended the new 
premium. He didnt think  Eldons letters  were  threatening, although he could see why they 
may have  been  perceived as aggressive. But he said he still thought Eldon should pay her a 
further £75 compensation.
Eldon asked for a review  of the complaint by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Eldon said Miss B owed £199 after the cancellation. In the breakdown it gave  the 
investigator, that sum included  its £75 cancellation  charge. It told us the total sum paid or 
forfeited by it to try to settle  her complaint was £349.  But that sum is made up of the £199,  
plus £75 compensation, plus the £75 cancellation  charge  already included  in the £199. So I 
think the overall settlement Eldon offered was actually worth  £274.
Ref: DRN12211102Had Eldons advisor  not made  an error, Miss B would never have taken out the policy. She 
had 22 days on cover - mostly  under  the threat  of cancellation. So I think  its reasonable that 
she shouldnt have  to pay any fees or charges associated  with the policy.  
Miss B was upset to be told very shortly  after taking out the policy that she had to produce 
evidence of her NCD. The warnings about cancellation and the reference to fraud in the 
letters Eldon  sent her are typical of those insurers usually send. I think its reasonable for 
insurers to give such warnings, given how important it is for policies to be validated  quickly. 
But I can see why Miss B found them upsetting.  And she should never have  been  put in the 
position where she was sent such letters.
Miss B was then told the policy had been cancelled, and that she was required to pay £199 
as a result. She was also threatened with referral to a debt collection agency if she didnt pay 
the sum within three weeks.  She says at the time Eldon had just assured her that it didnt 
need anything  further from her. I think Miss B was upset and inconvenienced  by having to 
deal with correspondence generated by an issue that should never have arisen.  She was 
further inconvenienced by having to find new insurance.    
I think Eldon  took the right steps to ensure Miss Bs new insurer  knew she no longer had a 
cancellation on her record - and that she should  never have had one. We dont know  what 
part of the new premium was due to the cancellation, as insurers rate their policies on a 
range of criteria.  I think it was reasonable to expect the new insurer to adjust the premium 
once the cancellation record was removed  and it saw Eldons  letter.  I cant  see why it 
wouldnt have done so. Its open to Miss B to query that and complain to the new insurer 
about it if necessary.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Eldon to pay Miss B a further £75 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience  making  £150 in total under that heading. I appreciate  that a 
further sum has been waived in fees and charges. But none of those would have been in 
place but for Eldons error. So although  its a part of putting things right,  I dont think  it can be 
considered as part of the compensation. 
my final decision   
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Eldon Insurance  Services  Ltd to 
pay Miss B a further £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience, making £150 in total.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1221110