K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss M says Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I previously issued a provisional  decision on this complaint.  Neither Nationwide nor Miss M 
responded to the provisional  decision so there  were no other points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from my findings, which  Ive set out again below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M has told us PPI wasnt mentioned to her  and that she didnt know she had PPI until 
she asked her representatives to look in to things for her. I cant  know  what  was said at the 
time, so I have to use the information  I do have.  Nationwide has given us a copy  of the credit 
card application  Miss M completed. I can see that there are two options  for PPI  to take it or 
decline it. And both are equally prominent.  The option to take PPI has been selected.  Miss M 
has signed the application agreeing to the information on it. So taking everything in to 
account, I think Nationwide made  it clear  that she didnt have to take out the PPI. I also think  
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as it was 
so long ago.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to decide  that for 
herself. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I need to consider if she wouldve  acted differently and not bought the 
policy if better information had been  provided. And on balance, I dont think  better 
information wouldve  led her to act differently. 
I know Miss M says she was entitled  to generous sick pay from her employer if she became 
unwell, but the policy couldve paid out alongside  this, and for longer  freeing up income for 
other expenses she may have. It would also have covered her if she became unemployed.
Miss M has told us she was pregnant at the time of sale and shes  told us about times when 
she had to take time off work as a result But her representative has told us that she didnt  
have any existing medical conditions before she bought the policy and that the time she had 
taken off work took place after she bought  it.
But while Miss M may not have been able to make a claim on the policy  as a result  of 
anything caused  by pregnancy, childbirth or complications related to those. But this isnt an 
unusual exclusion in PPI policies. And as insurance  is designed to protect  the insured from 
Ref: DRN10139442unforeseen circumstances and events,  this sort of exclusion isnt necessarily surprising 
either.
As a result, given the particular facts of this case,  Im not persuaded it was an unusual and, 
in turn, significant  term. And so, even if Nationwide didnt make  it clear to Miss M, I dont 
think its a reason to uphold the complaint.
Overall, therefore, this means  I dont currently think Nationwide have to pay back  the entire 
cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Miss M about that. 
Because Nationwide didnt tell her, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Miss M any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Miss M any extra interest  
she paid because of that.
Nationwide should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back to Miss M the difference  
between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Nationwide should also pay Miss M 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1013944