K820x#14complaint
Ms T is unhappy that a kitchen supplied through a fixed-sum loan agreement wasnt fitted 
correctly. Shes unhappy with the way Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited  trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF)  has handled a claim she made  under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75). Shes  also unhappy that it didnt put her account on hold 
until the matter was resolved. 
background
In January 2017 Ms T entered into a contract  with a kitchen supplier (M) to supply and fit a 
kitchen. She financed the kitchen through a fixed sum loan agreement provided  by BPF. The 
kitchen was installed around three weeks  later. Ms T later complained to M about the quality 
of the kitchens installation. 
Ms T said that the fitter had caused some  additional damage to a new window  unit. She said 
the fitter agreed  to replace the glass, but she said that she lost the 10-year manufacturer 
guarantee that she had on the window. And she wanted M to provide this guarantee going  
forward. Ms T also highlighted  a number of snagging issues  with the kitchen  e.g. she said 
that the fitter left a number  of parts of the kitchen  unsealed.
M arranged for Ms Ts kitchen to be inspected  in October 2017.  Following  this inspection, 
Ms T raised further issues with the quality of the goods and installation. In December 2017 
Ms T raised a further complaint that she hadnt received a follow-up response  to the 
inspection. She set out that she thought M should provide a price reduction from the amount 
she paid towards the supply  and fitting  of the goods.
M arranged for one of its area managers  to inspect the kitchen.  And, following this, he 
offered a 20% reduction  of the installation contract   a reduction  of £391.20. He also offered 
£250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter  had caused  a total of 
£641.20. 
Ms T didnt accept this offer as she said the response didnt address the quality issues that 
remained outstanding  with the kitchen.  M agreed to increase the offer to £800  and it said the 
quality concerns she raised were covered by the guarantee it gave for its work. Ms T said 
she would  accept this so long as M resolved the outstanding issues  and she said she 
reserved her right to re-open the complaint if further  issues arose. 
In May 2018, Ms T complained to M again  and said that further  issues  had arisen  with the 
kitchen  in particular in respect  to issues with the worktops. And in June 2018  Ms T 
contacted BPF to make a claim under S75 for breach of contract by M. 
M arranged for a further inspection of the kitchen in July 2018 and, following this, it agreed to 
carry out some further rectification work. But it said that it didnt think there were any issues 
with the worktops.  Ms T didnt agree with the findings and she said it was clear that there 
were faults  with the kitchen. M then suggested  Ms T refer her complaint to the Furniture 
Ombudsman as it felt theyd reached a stalemate in resolving the complaint.
In August  2018  Ms T complained to BPF about  the way it was handling her S75 claim. She 
also said that she wasnt going pay her monthly  direct debits until the matter was resolved, 
as she didnt think she should have to pay for faulty goods. And she cancelled  her direct 
debit. She also referred her complaint about  M to the Furniture Ombudsman.
Ref: DRN19255482BPF responded to Ms Ts complaint and paid her £25 in compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience this matter had caused her. It also said it was closing her S75 claim as Ms T 
had referred her complaint to the Furniture Ombudsman and it said it wasnt  able to perform  
an investigation alongside the Furniture  Ombudsman. Finally it said that Ms T was £176.62 
in arrears and it said it was sorry to hear she was struggling to maintain her payments.  And it 
offered to make arrangements  to get her back on track.
Ms T didnt accept BPFs  response and she said she was unhappy  that it had paid £25 to 
her without her agreement and she asked  that the transaction be reversed. She said she 
wasnt struggling to maintain payments  but said that BPF was in breach of contract. So she 
said shed terminated  the agreement and stopped  all payments.  She didnt think  she should 
be held liable for a debt for defective goods.
The Furniture Ombudsman arranged for an independent inspector to inspect Ms Ts kitchen. 
And in September 2018 it issued its findings following receipt of the inspection report. It said 
the report had said the kitchen units fitted at the home of Mrs T are of satisfactory quality 
and fit for purpose but there are some issues due to the way they have been installed. And 
it set out all the issues it thought were still outstanding on the kitchen.
Ms T then referred her complaint to this service.  BPF subsequently advised this service that, 
while M disagreed with some elements of the Furniture Ombudsmans report, it was willing  
to carry out the work that was set out in the report.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  this complaint. And I said the following:
breach of contract
Ms T is complaining about the quality of the work  that M did when supplying  and fitting  a 
kitchen. Ms T paid for these services through  a fixed sum loan agreement. S75 sets out that 
in certain circumstances, as the finance  provider,  BPF is jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply  here. 
Under the contact  with Ms T, M had agreed to supply and install a kitchen. Legislation  in 
this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  implied a term into the contract that M had 
to supply a kitchen that was of satisfactory  quality and then fit it with reasonable care and 
skill. M was also required to fit it within a reasonable time.
I dont intend to set out all the issues that there  were with the kitchens installation. But, its 
clear from the inspection in October  2017 and subsequent manager inspection  that there 
were a number of issues with the installation of the kitchen. And theres  no dispute that M 
didnt install  the kitchen with reasonable care and skill. M said it would repair  all the issues  
that it found. And it paid her £800 in compensation for this. 
In May 2018  Ms T highlighted further issues with the kitchen. I can see the Furniture 
Ombudsman arranged  to carry out an inspection  of the kitchen which  confirmed there were 
still some  issues  outstanding. BPF said M was willing  to carry out the work that was 
highlighted. And, in its response to Ms Ts S75 claim, it said it thought  M had taken fair steps 
to try to remedy the breaches of contract. 
Where a service isnt carried out with reasonable care and skill, the CRA says the consumer 
has the right to ask for the work  to be done  again, or to have the rectification work carried  
Ref: DRN19255483out. I understand that M repaired  all the issues that were highlighted in October 2017, which 
is what it was required to do.
M also agreed to repair all the issues that the Furniture Ombudsman highlighted. But Ms T 
has sold the house since then. So its not possible  to repair the issues  any longer.  However, 
Ive thought about whether Ms T lost out on the sale value of her house  as a result  of whats  
happened. But shes told us that the buyer was informed that the kitchen was being  sold 
faulty. It didn't  impact  on the sale price  as marketing factors and the buyers  needs  meant  
that it off set any particular issues that might affect the price. So I dont think  Ms T has lost 
out financially  as a result of these issues. Given this, I dont think BPF needs to do anything  
further to put this right.
However, the CRA also sets out that Ms T is entitled to a price reduction of the amount 
charged if the issues arent resolved  within a reasonable period of time. While I acknowledge 
that M did resolve the initial issues raised,  I think  it took longer  than it should  have done. I 
understand the kitchen was installed in February 2017, but M didnt resolve the initial issues 
raised until around 12 months  later. Further  issues were subsequently highlighted which  
werent resolved  before  Ms T sold her house.  And I think its fair to say that all these  issues  
should have been resolved sooner than they were.
So I think Ms T is entitled to a reduction in the amount M charged for installing the kitchen. M 
charged around £2,000 to have the kitchen installed. M has already offered Ms T £800  in 
compensation for this. And I need  to think about  whether this is fair compensation or not. In 
doing so I have to think  to what  extent  M fulfilled its contractual responsibilities. 
I note Ms T wants a full refund of the installation costs, but I dont think  this is reasonable as 
M did largely provide  the service it was contracted to provide  i.e. it did fit the kitchen which 
she was able to use, albeit with some snagging  issues. So Ms T has received  some of the 
benefit of the contract and I think its reasonable she pays  for some of it.
But, as I said, part of the contract  is to fit the kitchen  with reasonable care and skill and 
within a reasonable time.  M clearly  didnt do this. But £800 equates  to around 40% of the 
installation cost. And I think this is fair compensation to reflect  Ms breaches of contract, 
taking into account  the cost price  of the contract. So I dont think  BPF needs to pay anything  
further in this respect. 
I note Ms T said she lost her guarantee on the window the fitter damaged. But I havent  seen 
anything to show that she needed  to claim on the guarantee. Given shes now sold the 
house, she hasnt  lost out as a result of this.
I recognise Ms T says that shes suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience as a result of 
whats happened. But I think thats as a result of Ms handling of the claim. I note BPF paid 
Ms T £25 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience shed suffered. But BPF is 
only responsible  for any losses  arising from a breach of contract and in particular for 
remedies set out under the CRA and what may be awarded by a court. Under  S75, BPF isnt 
generally responsible  for any distress or inconvenience caused  to Ms T by M. 
I think BPF has responded to Ms Ts S75 claim within  reasonable timeframes.  And I dont  
think its unfairly caused her any significant  distress and inconvenience. Ive considered 
Ms Ts comments  that BPF had closed her S75 claim when she referred her complaint to the 
Furniture Ombudsman. But I dont think it was unreasonable for BPF to pause  the claim 
Ref: DRN19255484while the Furniture Ombudsman was investigating  the matter.  I note Ms T is unhappy it paid 
the compensation it offered to her directly. But it wasnt unreasonable that it did so. 
So, taking everything  into account, I dont think BPF needs to do anything  further  to resolve  
Ms Ts S75 claim.
impact on her credit file
In September  2018 Ms T stopped paying  her finance agreement  as she said that BPF was in 
breach of contract.  But I dont agree that BPF had breached the terms of its contract with 
Ms T. As I said above, M had breached  the terms of its installation contract with Ms T. But 
this was a separate contract  to the one she had with BPF. 
Under the terms of the contract Ms T had with BPF,  BPF agreed  to pay for the cost of 
supplying and fitting the kitchen and Ms T agreed  to repay  the loan over 60 months. BPF 
had fulfilled its contractual requirement  in paying M. So Ms T was required  to repay the loan. 
I appreciate that Ms T was unhappy with the quality of the kitchens installation.  But I cant  
say that BPF have  acted unfairly and it wasnt required to put the loan account on hold. 
The terms and conditions  of the loan agreement required Ms T to keep her payments  up to 
date. Because  the payments have fallen into arrears, BPF has recorded  adverse markers on 
her credit file. I appreciate that Ms T wants these markers removed  and compensation for 
the impact this had had on her credit file. But Im unable  to require BPF to do this unless it 
has made an error. And based on what Ive seen,  it hasnt done so.
BPF responded to my provisional decision to say that it didnt have anything further to add. 
Ms T didnt accept it. She said that Id only looked  at the installation, but her complaint isnt 
only about the installation. She also didnt think the chronology I set out correlated with the 
way BPF handled the claim.  She also said that BPF didnt put the claim on hold but closed it. 
Finally she remained unhappy  that BPF referred  the debt to debt collection agency and 
refused to discuss and seek  any resolution.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Ms Ts additional comments into account. I appreciate she doesnt agree with my 
decision, but she hasnt given me anything else to think  about.  So Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  and for the same reasons. 
I dont think Ms T has said anything that she hasnt set out before. And Im satisfied I 
explained the reasons I came to the conclusion I did in my provisional decision.  So I dont 
see any reason to reiterate what Ive said previously. 
Ref: DRN19255485my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1925548