K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 2005. 
The policies covered Mr C only. Mr and Mrs C say Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold  them  the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below.
The PPI policies were  taken out with a home loan and an equity  release loan in 2005.
When selling  the PPI, Northern Bank had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs C that they had a 
choice about it. But Mr and Mrs C say the policies were presented as compulsory.
Northern Bank hasnt been able to send us copies  of Mr and Mrs Cs application  forms for 
the loans. But it has sent us an example of what  it says loan application  forms from the time 
wouldve looked like. And this included  a section on PPI, with spaces for the consumer to 
sign to say either yes or no to the PPI.
Northern Bank has also been able to send us copies of Mr and Mrs Cs PPI application 
forms. These set out the amount of benefit Mr and Mrs C wanted  on each policy,  and have 
both been signed by Mr and Mrs C. These PPI application form also included  direct debit 
instructions to pay for the PPI, which Mr and Mrs C both also signed.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Northern Bank did make it clear  to Mr 
and Mrs C that they had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs C chose to take it, 
knowing they didnt  have to.
Northern Bank says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check  that it was 
right for them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, Mr C doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover.
Mr and Mrs C have said that Mr C would never have been  out of work for long enough to be 
able to claim on the PPI. But peoples circumstances can change. And the policies wouldve 
provided cover if Mr C had lost his job and not been able to find replacement work.  The 
policies would also have  covered him for accident and sickness as well as unemployment. 
And I dont  think the waiting period  on these  policies was unusual  or unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs C have also said that Mr C wouldve received significant sick pay from his 
employer if hed been unable to work due to sickness. But the PPI policies wouldve paid out 
in addition to this. So I still think they were  right for Mr and Mrs C.
As well as checking the PPI was right for them, Northern Bank had to give Mr and Mrs C 
clear information about it. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear  as it 
Ref: DRN10057282shouldve been.  But secured loans  are a serious  financial commitment,  and Mr and Mrs Cs 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policies offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I 
think it was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have been  useful  for Mr and Mrs C if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs C off taking it out.
Mr and Mrs C have also mentioned that other, similar PPI complaints have been upheld. But 
the Financial Ombudsman Service looks at each  complaint separately, on its individual  
circumstances. And, as Ive explained above,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold here.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1005728