K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Miss M hold a joint Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP)  policy with Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS). They complain that BoS sent their policy schedule  containing 
numerous personal details  to a third party by mistake. 
background
In September  2018 Mr B spoke  to BoS to request  a copy of his policy  documents.  BoS 
intended to send this policy schedule to Mr B and Miss M in October 2018. But this 
document was instead sent to a different customer by mistake  (Person A). Person  A 
contacted BoS directly  to let it know they had received Mr B and Miss Ms details alongside 
their own paperwork.  During this call BoS says Person A agreed to shred the document.
 
BoS told Mr B and Miss M that their details had been sent to Person A, and they raised a 
complaint. They said the paperwork included private details about their bank  account,  
respective salaries,  and life insurance.  Mr B and Miss M said theyd received scam phone  
calls since the policy documents had been  sent,  and were worried their paperwork hadnt  
been shredded  and could  be used for fraudulent  purposes in the future.
BoS responded to say Mr B and Miss Ms telephone number wasnt  included  within  the 
policy details. Mr B explained Person A couldve found his number within  a phone book. BoS 
considered the complaint and apologised for the mistake   and Mr B explained  it had offered 
them £50 for distress and inconvenience. Mr B and Miss M brought  their complaint to our 
service and explained they had been through a very difficult time as a result  of this error.
BoS then increased  its offer £100.  Mr B and Miss M were still unhappy so one of our 
investigators looked into their concerns. Mr B and Miss M explained they are worried as 
there was enough  information within the policy for someone to fraudulently  take out a 
mortgage or finance in their names. So they felt £5,000  would be fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said it appeared the mistake had happened 
because of human  error. But BoS had provided  evidence to suggest Person A had shredded 
the paperwork. So she felt it couldnt  have done more after it made  the mistake  to stop the 
data being shared any further.
But the investigator said the mistake  itself did cause distress and inconvenience for Mr B 
and Miss M. While she felt it wasnt likely their identities would be stolen, she understood the 
thought of this had been very upsetting  for them. So she recommended  BoS increase  its 
offer to £300 to reflect the impact  of this.
Mr B responded to say he felt £300  was an insult, and that he had received many scam  
phone calls claiming to be from a telephone provider since this letter.
Before issuing my decision, BoS agreed to pay for membership for an identity protection  
service for both Mr B and Miss M. This was at a cost of £20 each  for two years membership. 
It said it hoped this would reduce any anxiety  for Mr B and Miss M in the future. Mr B and 
Miss M have not accepted this, so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN14540012I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 February  2019  explaining  why I was 
intending to uphold this complaint in part, and say BoS  offer of £140 was fair and 
reasonable. Ive summarised my reasons below.
Its not in dispute in this case that BoS made  a mistake by sending Mr B and 
Miss Ms details to Person A. And I explained  my role when  looking  at this complaint 
wasnt to punish or fine BoS for this mistake as our service isnt a regulator.
I explained instead I had to consider the impact of BoS  mistake  on Mr B and 
Miss M, and whether it had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
I looked at the 2010 policy schedule that was sent, and I saw it included details of a 
bank account,  their full names,  addresses, dates of birth, and respective incomes  
from this time. Mr B had told us the bank  account details that were included within 
the shared document  were no longer live and hadnt been active for some  time. So I 
felt it was unlikely  sharing this information  caused  a risk to Mr B and Miss M.
I said neither Mr B nor Miss Ms phone numbers  appeared in the documents.  And I 
hadnt seen anything to show any incoming calls described were  a direct result  of any 
of the information BoS sent in error.
I considered that it was Person A who proactively  called BoS to alert it of the 
paperwork that had been sent to them. And while I couldnt know for certain  whether  
the documents in question were destroyed, it seemed counter intuitive to me for them  
to alert BoS if their intentions hadnt  been.  In any case, I said Id seen nothing to 
suggest Mr B or Miss M have been victims of fraud since this event, or that theyd  
lost out financially as a result.
BoS alerted  Mr B and Miss M of its mistake quickly  after it was contacted by Person 
A. And BoS asked Person A to shred the documents, which  they seemingly agreed 
to do. So in the circumstances  I said I couldnt  see that BoS couldve done  any more,  
after the mistake happened, to protect Mr B and Miss Ms data.
BoS had offered to pay for membership for both Mr B and Miss M for an identity 
protection service.  Given Mr B and Miss Ms concerns, I thought  this membership  if 
they wanted to use it  was a positive and proactive step on behalf of BoS to help 
with their concerns.
Mr B and Miss M said they felt they should be awarded £5,000  in compensation for 
the distress theyve been through. I said I appreciated theyd been caused  some 
frustration by this experience. But taking  everything into account,  including  the level 
of awards our service  recommends, I felt BoS offer of £140 was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case.
Neither BoS nor Mr B and Miss M have responded with anything  further  for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and given neither party has provided further  comments  for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from my previous decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint in part. Bank of Scotland plc 
should, if it hasnt  already,  pay Mr B and Miss M £140.
Ref: DRN14540013Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1454001