K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc offered her an unfair amount for 
her hearing  aid after she made a claim on her home insurance policy.
background
Mrs Hs hearing  aids are specified on her policy for £5,000. One of them was damaged in an 
accident and RSA accepted her claim. Mrs H provided a quote for a replacement from her 
audiologist for £2,545. But RSA appointed its own supplier who could  replace  the item for 
£1,871.
RSA offered to replace Mrs Hs hearing aid through  its supplier, or cash settle her claim for 
£1,871. Mrs H chose  to proceed  with her own audiologist, but is unhappy RSA wont  meet 
her full costs.
RSA has highlighted  the policy terms. These  explain that if its preferred supplier  can repair 
or replace an item, a cash settlement wont normally exceed its own costs. RSA says its 
supplier could replace  Mrs Hs hearing  aid and also provide her with the aftercare. 
Therefore, RSA says the limit of its liability  is £1,871.
Mrs Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but overall she didnt think it 
should be upheld.  She noted Mrs Hs quote was for an updated version of the hearing aid, 
rather than being  a like-for-like replacement. She also contacted RSAs audiologist to 
confirm they had experience of Mrs Hs type of hearing loss. 
Because Mrs H disagreed  with our investigator, the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide. Mrs H has made  the following points:
-It took her years  of trials and testing  to find the correct type of hearing aid  and she 
trusts her audiologist to provide the right product for her specific  needs. She says a 
replacement hearing aid is useless unless its backed by careful  programming and 
the required aftercare.
-Mrs H has been using  her audiologist  for about 15 years, and previously no other 
company had been able to find anything suitable  for her  she doubts that RSAs 
audiologist has experience of her type of hearing loss.
-Mrs Hs audiologist had the benefit  of her previous tests and data when programming 
the replacement  hearing aid; and it was able to provide the replacement  quickly. She 
says RSAs audiologist would have had to run extensive tests  which  would have 
been time consuming for her.
-Mrs H asked her audiologist for a replacement hearing aid, she didnt know  it was the 
latest model and her only concern  was that it worked. She says her audiologist has 
since told her hearing aids are normally replaced with the latest model.
-Mrs Hs hearing  aids are specified for £5,000,  so she questions why she cannot 
replace the damaged aid for £2,500.
-Mrs H wasnt  comfortable using the local audiologist RSA proposed  to use because  
she wished to keep  her disability private  from her local community.  
Ref: DRN15109112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
RSA could replace  Mrs Hs hearing aid through its supplier network, so under the policy  
terms it wasnt required to cash settle the claim for more than what  its own replacement  
costs would have  been. As such,  Im satisfied RSA applied the policy  terms correctly. 
Ive also carefully considered what both parties  have  said, and overall  Ive not been  
persuaded RSA was treating Mrs H unfairly. Ill explain why.
Ive no doubt that a hearing aid is a very personal item, and of great importance to Mrs H. So 
given her long-standing  relationship with her audiologist, I can understand her apprehension  
about using a different provider. Mrs H also needs to travel  quite  some  distance to visit her 
own audiologist, so its clear she trusts and values their services.
However, whilst  I do understand  Mrs Hs desire  to use her own audiologist, she hasnt said 
anything that persuades  me RSAs audiologist wouldnt have been able to provide her with 
the care or service she needed. RSA says its audiologist would have carried out a hearing 
test and hearing aid programming  and provided  the aftercare required. It also says the 
audiologist was offering  a home  visit in terms of saving Mrs Hs time and protecting  her 
privacy. RSAs audiologist also says it has experience of Mrs Hs hearing  loss. In the 
absence of information to the contrary, I accept  what  RSA and its audiologist says.
RSA was offering  a direct replacement of the model  that was damaged,  so although I accept  
Mrs H has experienced  difficulties in the past with finding  a hearing aid that worked for her,   
I consider it unlikely that this would have been an issue here. Also,  if Mrs H were to have 
some problems with the programming  carried out by RSAs audiologist, RSA would  have 
had to put matters  right  and if she remained unhappy I consider it likely that she could 
have always followed up with her own audiologist. I havent seen anything  that suggests        
Mrs H wouldnt  have been able to resume her audiologists services in the future, if the 
hearing aid had been replaced through RSAs supplier
In any event, in my opinion I cant reasonably decide  RSA should pay £674 more  to settle 
this claim based on Mrs Hs concern  that something might have gone wrong with RSAs  
supplier, when I havent been shown anything that supports those  concerns.
I appreciate the hearing aids were insured for a specified amount. But this figure doesnt 
represent the minimum payable by RSA,  but rather the maximum. RSA is still entitled to 
replace specified  items through its supplier network  if its able to do so.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN15109113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1510911