K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains about actions taken  by Capital One (Europe)  plc in relation to a credit card 
account.
background
On 4 May 2019  Capital One sent Ms J an email  stating your agreed  payment of £77.11 is 
due in the next 3 days.
. 
Ms J says shed previously agreed with Capital One that shed pay the money she owed it  
which its automated system  had told her was a lesser amount -in two instalments. She made 
these payments before the due date of 3 May 2019.  But then received this email, which  she 
felt was threatening.
Ms J complains this issue has taken up her time with unnecessary phone calls and caused  
her a great deal of stress.  She feels that Capital  One provided  poor service.  Shes  also upset 
she wasnt notified her account had been referred  to its Collections team. And is concerned 
about what it mightve reported  to credit reference  agencies. To put things right she wants it 
to pay her compensation.
Capital One said that when Ms J called on 15 April 2019 she was transferred to its 
Collections team as her account balance was over the credit  limit. It said the agent on this 
call advised the recommended payment to bring her account  up to date was £77.11  by 3 
May 2019. And Ms J had said she was comfortable  with this. So it had applied a promise to 
pay to her account which is the reason  she received the payment reminder email.
Capital One later credited Ms J with £15 to cover the cost of telephone calls shed  made to it. 
It also acknowledged it hadnt called her back on one occasion when it said it would. And 
said it recognised  that the number of acknowledgements and conflicting  information shed 
been provided with about  her complaint had caused  some confusion. But that it had issued 
its final response on the matter.
Ms J referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator felt the email  from Capital One 
was intended  as a helpful reminder. And said that its confirmation that a payment of £77.11  
was due in the next three days  wasnt necessarily  incorrect - albeit he noted  Ms J had 
already made some  payments towards this figure. He also said he thought Capital  One had 
handled her complaint about its service fairly. And that he couldnt see any unfair or incorrect  
information had been recorded  on her credit file.
Ms J didnt agree with this view. So the case has been passed  to me to decide
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to hear these events  have 
caused Ms J distress. But, whilst  I realise shell be disappointed by my decision, Im not 
going to ask Capital One to pay her any further compensation. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN10515922I think confusion arose  here due to the difference between the minimum payment of £64.11 
that was due on Ms Js account. And the slightly higher amount of £77.11 Capital One 
recommended that she pay, which took into account  the fact her balance had exceeded her 
credit limit by £13. 
Ms J made two payments of £40 and £30 to her account before the 3 May 2019.  This 
covered the minimum  payment required. But fell short of Capital Ones  recommended 
payment amount. 
Ms J disputes that shed  ever agreed to pay the recommended amount  of £77.11. So Ive 
listened to the calls she had with Capital  One about the payment due on her account. 
The first of these calls took place on the 15 April 2019. I can hear the agent  explained to Ms 
J that on the 7 April 2019 a new statement had been generated and interest added to her 
account. And that this interest  amount  had taken the account  overdrawn. 
The agent  told her the next minimum payment due on her account was £64.11.  But Capital 
Ones recommended  payment was for £77.11,  which included the amount she was 
overdrawn. The agent asked if Ms J was comfortable with this amount. Ms J clarified that the 
additional £13 wasnt a charge, and then said that she was. I can hear that the agent 
repeated the amount of £77.11 again  later in the call. So I dont think  its unreasonable  that 
they concluded Ms J intended to pay £77.11 to her account by the 3 May 2019.
Capital One has explained that the agent  recorded a promise to pay on Ms Js account, 
which meant she wouldnt receive  any calls from its Collections team before this date. And is 
why she was then sent an automated payment reminder email when the full amount of 
£77.11 wasnt  received  by 3 May 2019.  I appreciate Ms J wasnt  specifically told about this 
being recorded. But I think the agent  was trying to help her, and ensure she didnt  receive 
further calls from Capital  One about the fact her account was overdrawn. 
Ms J discussed the amount due on her account in two further  phone  calls with Capital One. 
On 26 April 2019 an agent told her the same recommended  payment amount of £77.11. Ms 
J said that the automated system didnt tell her to pay this amount. And the agent explained 
it  would have asked  her to make  the minimum payment  of £64.11.  He said Capital Ones  
recommended payment  was £77.11, but it was Ms Js choice  as to how much she wanted to 
pay. 
On 30 April 2019 Ms J called again  and asked if shed paid enough to cover the minimum 
payment due. The agent noted that the minimum payment on her account  was £64.11. And 
said the payments  shed  made for £40 and £30 should cover this. He didnt mention Capital 
Ones recommended  payment amount.  This wouldve been  helpful. But given  Ms J had 
asked specifically about the minimum payment due, I dont think this amounted to an error 
on the agents part. 
I can understand why the payment reminder  email  Ms J received caused her alarm given 
she had paid more  than the minimum amount required. And I note she didnt agree to pay 
£77.11 when she spoke to Capital  One on the 26 and 30 April 2019.  But, like our 
investigator, Im satisfied  Capital One intended  this email as a helpful reminder based on the 
conversation it had with her on 15 April 2019  when she did indicate she intended to pay this 
amount. And I dont  think it was unreasonable for it to send  it.
Ref: DRN10515923The email  said that if Ms J missed the payment shed be asked to pay the full amount due of 
£0.00 to bring  her account up to date.  So I think it did indicate that her account was already 
technically up to date as the minimum payment had been made. And whilst  I understand the 
confusion the email caused, I dont think it was worded in a threatening manner.
I understand Ms J is concerned about  any impact this might have had on her credit file.  
Capital One has shown us a copy of the information  its reported to credit  reference 
agencies. And, like our investigator, I cant see any suggestion its recorded  any incorrect  or 
negative information  about this incident.  So I hope  this will reassure  Ms J.
I understand Ms J is unhappy that she wasnt notified her account had been passed  to 
Capital ones Collections  team. This is a process  Capital  One has where an account falls 
behind with payments  or exceeds  its credit  limit to ensure the customer  receives any 
additional support they may require.  As Ms Js account had gone overdrawn I dont think its 
unreasonable Capital One passed  it to its Collections team.  And I can hear that the agents 
she spoke to identified  that they worked  for this team.
Ms Js told us shes upset with the overall service she received from Capital One here. I 
gather she was expecting a phone call to discuss her initial  complaint. And I can see shes 
spent some time calling  it about the matter,  and has missed other call backs Capital One 
attempted to make. I appreciate the inconvenience this entailed.  But Capital One has 
apologised for not calling her back on 27 May 2019. And its credited her account with £15 to 
cover the cost of the calls shes made.  I think this is fair in the circumstances. And I can see 
it did send her a final response within the timescales businesses have to respond  to 
complaints like this.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1051592