K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that his mortgage lender - The Mortgage Works  (UK) Plc (TMW) has twice 
unfairly refused  to allow second charge borrowing on a buy-to-let property.
Background
In 2012 Mr G remortgaged his property with TMW, borrowing approximately  £320,000.  This 
was a buy-to-let  mortgage, set-up on an interest  only basis over 20 years.
Mr G says he accrued various  debts  trying to support his business  following the financial 
crash. When, in 2014, those debts  became  unmanageable, Mr G asked TMW  for permission 
to obtain second charge borrowing from another lender. TMW  declined his request. Mr G 
says the only reason  for the decline was that his mortgage with TMW, combined with his 
proposed second  charge borrowing, resulted in a loan to value of more  than 60%.  
Mr G says the decision to decline was unfair, given that he showed  TMW that the monthly  
cost of his proposed, combined mortgage borrowing would be much less than his current  
borrowing commitments. This was because he planned to use the new borrowing to 
consolidate his unsecured  debt.  He says that his plan would result  in less risk to TMW  than 
his circumstances  at the time.
Mr G says, in declining his application, TMW contradicted the basic principle: Companies 
should not have post sale unfair barriers . He says TMWs decision caused his loans and 
credit cards to go into arrears, his business to fall apart and his credit  score to be 
completely  destroyed . He then went into mortgage  arrears and put the house  on the 
market, having  removed the tenants  in an attempt to get a quick sale.
In August  2018  Mr G, again, requested that TMW accept a second charge. This time the 
proposed lender had agreed an amount of £50,000  on the condition that it takes the first    
12 months premiums from the advance. He told TMW  of his plan to clear  his arrears and pay 
a further six months  in advance. In addition, the second charge borrowing would allow  him to 
advertise for his business to generate income  again. He planned to keep that house on the 
market, expecting a sale within  a year. TMW declined Mr Gs request again, this time 
because of the arrears  on his mortgage account  and because  he was living in the property.
Following both requests  Mr G complained to TMW, but it didnt reverse  either decision. Mr G 
maintains that his plans would have resulted in no additional risk to TMW and says its 
decisions have led to the destruction of his financial  reputation  and record.  In addition,  he 
says his health has been badly affected.
Since bringing his complaint to this service, Mr G sold his house at £100,000 less than he 
wanted. He says he accepted that offer to avoid  repossession.
Our investigator found that we couldnt consider Mr Gs complaint about TMWs decision to 
decline permission for a second charge in 2014  as he didnt refer it to us in time.
With regard to TMWs decision to decline permission for a second  charge in 2018, our 
investigator didnt  think  it had done anything  wrong. She said it was reasonable for TMW to 
base its decision on the risk to it. She thought TMW acted in line with its stated lending  
criteria and didnt think there was sufficient reason for TMW  to step aside from its usual 
stance. 
Ref: DRN14658252Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He explained that his 
plan, as outlined  above, would have  lessened the risk to TMW. He says he wasnt  in breach 
of the mortgage  conditions  as hed removed the tenants so that he could  sell the property 
and informed TMW that hed be living there two days  a week.  This was for viewings, as the 
property was vacant.  
Mr G hasnt disagreed with our investigators finding  about our jurisdiction to look at the part 
of his complaint  that relates  to his 2014  request. So, Ill not be addressing that in my 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr G says TMW contradicted the basic principle:  Companies should not have post sale 
unfair barriers. The principle to which Mr G has referred comes from the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) guidance  (first published  12 May 2015) on fair treatment for customers. 
The guidance lists six outcomes that firms  should strive to achieve to ensure fair treatment  
of customers. Outcome 6 says:
Customers  do not face unreasonable post-sale barriers imposed by firms  to change 
product, switch provider,  submit a claim or make a complaint.
The principle  doesnt specifically mention second charges on mortgages  its much  more  
general in nature. But I have thought about whether TMWs decision is in the spirit  of the 
FCAs principle.
To reach my decision, Ive looked  at TMWs reasons  for declining the second charge 
permission request in 2018. And Ive thought  about  whether those reasons were in line with 
its usual criteria and whether it was reasonable for TMW to apply that criteria as it has, given 
Mr Gs circumstances and plans.
Mr G was experiencing financial difficulty when he made the request in 2018. I can 
understand why he thinks  his plan to obtain  second  charge borrowing was a solution.  I can 
see that it wouldve  lowered his monthly outgoings, I can see that it would have bought  him 
some time in which to sell his property  and I can see that he would have had money with 
which he may have invested  in his business.  But I must consider the situation from TMWs 
perspective as well.
In its final response letter,  TMW says it declined Mr Gs request because of the level of 
arrears on his mortgage account.  The letter confirms  this was in excess of £13,000. TMW  
has provided us with its 2018 criteria  for agreeing second charges. One of the stipulated 
points is:
There  are no mortgage arrears in the last 12 months  on the account.
I think its reasonable that TMW  considers  Mr Gs recent payment record when deciding 
whether to allow the amount of borrowing secured  on Mr Gs property to increase. Its 
explained that, were  it to take possession of the property, it could be forced  into a sale by 
Ref: DRN14658253another charge holder, when it would prefer a strategy of managing the property for rental.  
So, I can see that, where a mortgage  is substantially in arrears,  the risk of that would be 
significantly higher,  if it were to allow a second charge. 
I know Mr G feels  that his plan would reduce the risk that TMW would need  to take 
possession. But, for Mr Gs plan to succeed,  TMW would  be reliant on factors  that were 
outside of its control, such as the sale of the property and the success  of the investment in 
Mr Gs business. 
Even if TMW  were to overlook its criteria in relation to Mr Gs arrears  Im not suggesting it 
should  Mr Gs request  falls short  or is likely to fall short of other criteria for it accepting  
second charges.  Another stipulation is that the second charge must be for home  
improvements. Mr G has told us that the second charge is for debt consolidation and 
business investment.  So, his request doesnt  meet that part of TMWs criteria.
In addition, when  considering second  charges, TMW takes loan to value and rental cover  
the amount by which the rental income exceeds the contractual  monthly payment(s) on the 
total debt secured  into account. Securing other  lending to the property would mean both a 
decrease to the total rental  cover  and an increase in the total loan to value. So, this also 
increases the risk to TMW.
Having looked  at Mr Gs circumstances and plans, along with TMWs  second charge criteria, 
I think it was reasonable  for it to refuse his request. I understand that Mr G has found  himself 
in a very difficult financial position and that this can often have a negative  effect on a 
persons health.  But, given my findings, I dont  think TMW caused this. So, I dont think       
Mr Gs complaint should succeed.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Gs complaint about The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1465825