K820x#14complaint
Mr I and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked  their account and didnt 
explain why itd done this.
background
In August  2018  Mr I and Mrs M had a payment of a substantial sum of money  into their 
account. They explained where  it had come from but later Barclays  blocked their account 
and wouldnt  let them have  access  to their money.  This caused them a lot of embarrassment 
and distress.  Mr I has been into his local branch  on numerous occasions to find out why it 
did this but he hasnt had a satisfactory answer.  Barclays has now lifted the block but theyre  
very unhappy about the way this has been  handled  by the bank. And they want a proper  
explanation and £5,000  compensation.
Barclays said it placed safeguards on their account  and apologised  for the inconvenience  
that this had caused. But it said it was entitled to do this in line with the Customer Retail  
Agreement of their account. And it said it doesnt have to give a reason for placing these 
safeguards on an account. It apologised for the delay  in dealing with their complaint and 
offered them  £350  for the inconvenience itd caused. 
Our investigator could  see that Barclays Customer Retail Agreement allows  it to carry out 
safeguarding checks. And although  Mr I said he was left without any way of paying his bills 
she could see he was still able to draw out money at his local branch. So she didnt think 
Barclays had been unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr I said he and Mrs M werent  happy with her opinion. They said Barclays  knew where the 
money had come from, it took the bank over two weeks to lift the block, the compensation 
Barclays offered didnt cover the cost of his travel and parking and his time in going 
backwards and forwards to his local branch, and too many  case handlers  were involved in 
his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. And theres not much more I can add.
There are certain situations when  Barclays can carry out checks  on an account and it 
doesnt have to give an explanation. Unfortunately  that will inevitably cause a certain amount 
of inconvenience  for a customer. And thats  what has happened  to Mr I and Mrs M. But 
Barclays has acted in line with its internal  policies  which its explained in its Customer  Retail 
Agreement. So I cant find it did anything wrong  when  it blocked their account or when  it 
wouldnt give them  a detailed explanation. Mr I said Barclays  knew the source of this money 
but it seems to me that under the Customer Retail Agreement Barclays  is still entitled to 
carry out further checks.  
The bank took longer  than its 10 working  day timescale to investigate their account. And it 
didnt give them a good service when they complained. But its offered them  £350  for the 
trouble and stress this caused. Taking  into consideration the impact Mr I says this has had 
on them,  I think thats fair and reasonable. So I wont be asking Barclays  to do anything  
more.
Ref: DRN17890692Mr I said he wanted his phone calls listened to. But I dont think its necessary for me to do 
this to make  my decision.  Barclays  has already  agreed  it didnt give him a good  customer  
service. And its offered him and Mrs M compensation which  I think  is fair and reasonable 
based on what Mr I said about  the impact  on them.  And that compensation also takes  into 
account Mr Is concern about the number of people he had to speak to.
Mr I transferred some of the money concerned into an account  with another bank.  He now 
says Barclays decision led the other  bank to close that account.  I havent seen any evidence  
that would  lead me to conclude Barclays was responsible for the other banks decision. If Mr 
I wants to take this any further he would need to speak to the other bank.
Im sorry  to hear this situation is making Mr I unwell.  And I know he and Mrs M will be 
disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons  Ive given Im not upholding their 
complaint.
I cant see that Barclays has paid them the £350 compensation its already offered. If it 
hasnt, and Mr I and Mrs M would like to accept this offer, our investigator will help them do 
so.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1789069