K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the length of time it took esure Insurance Limited to repair his car and 
close his claim  made on his motor insurance policy. He wants  it to consider how much  of his 
time it took to deal with the claim and the increase in premiums  hes had to pay. 
background
Mr A made a claim and esure took his car for repair. But Mr A was unhappy with the length 
of time these were  taking.  The repairer said it was having trouble obtaining the parts  needed. 
So esure agreed that Mr A could have his car repaired  at a different garage. It waived the 
policy excess that would usually apply for this and paid the cost of transferring the car. Mr A 
paid his policy excess to the first garage. 
It took esure  a year to recover its outlay from the other insurer. And then it took seven 
months for it to obtain the policy excess from its repairing garage. During  this time the claim 
was held open and Mr A paid higher premiums for his new policy  with a different insurer as a 
result. esure agreed that it should  have done  more to obtain  the excess  from the garage.  It 
offered Mr A £150  compensation for this and provided him with a letter  saying that the claim 
had been settled as non-fault.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought the 
delays in repairs had been made by an incomplete initial  assessment, not by trouble  
obtaining parts. She thought esure  hadnt  managed Mr As expectations as it gave him five 
different completion  dates. She thought esure should pay Mr A £150 compensation for these 
avoidable delays.  She also thought esure should  have recorded  the claim as non-fault when 
it recovered its outlay  and not further  delayed this. But she thought esures redress  for this 
was fair and reasonable. 
esure replied  that it was common practice to order  parts  as they were  noted as needed and 
not all were evident on first inspection.  It thought  it was reasonable for the repairer to have 
provided updated completion dates to Mr A when  there were delays. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A brought his complaint about  the delays in repairs  late to us, more  than 
six months after esure provided its response  to his complaint. But esure  has specifically 
agreed that we can still consider this complaint. 
esure agreed that it had caused delays  in having  the claim recorded as closed on external 
databases. It recovered its outlay from the other  insurer in October 2018 and then recovered 
Mr As excess from its garage in May 2019.  It thought it had caused an avoidable  delay of 
four months due to a lack of proactivity  and errors.  
When a business  makes mistakes, as esure agrees it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers  position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact  the 
error had on the consumer. 
Ref: DRN12243382esures own approved  garage had retained the policy  excess but not forwarded  it to esure. 
Mr A had to chase esure twice to check that it had recovered his excess. During this time his 
policy renewed and the claim was still recorded as open which  would affect his premium.  I 
can understand that this caused Mr A frustration. 
But I think esures offer of £150 compensation for this and a letter  to say that the claim was 
now closed as non-fault was fair and reasonable to restore  Mr As position.  This is because 
this is what Id require  in similar circumstances  and Mr A can now recover some  of his 
premium from his new insurer. 
esure didnt  think it had caused  any avoidable  delays in repairing the car at its own garage. It 
said it wasnt uncommon for further damage  to be discovered during the repairs meaning 
that multiple orders for new parts would be required. It said its repairer wasnt  responsible  for 
the lack of availability of parts, and this was a matter of weeks  rather  than months in any 
case. It said it had tried to keep  Mr A updated  about  the expected completion date. 
I can see that Mr As car was with the approved  repairer for five weeks  until he insisted that 
esure have  it repaired  elsewhere. During  these five weeks, the garage placed  five different 
orders for parts. Three of these were reorders for parts that hadnt  previously been in stock.  
But two orders, an initial one and one placed  some  three weeks  after the car had been  with 
the repairer, were  for significant numbers of new parts. 
I can understand that further damage, and required parts, may become apparent during the 
repairs process. But the initial order was placed after the garage  had the car for one week,  
and presumably stripped it down. The second  order was placed a further two weeks  later.  
The garage had told Mr A it was working on his repairs  during  this time. 
esure hasnt  explained why it took the garage  so long to identify and order a significant 
number of parts. I think the damage  was most  likely incorrectly assessed  initially. I think  a 
better assessment could  have led to the parts been ordered earlier.  
When the car was first taken to the approved repairers, esure sent Mr A an email saying the 
repairs would be completed within a few days. The garage and esure then sent Mr A five 
further emails with updated completion  dates but without any explanation  for why there were 
delays. I think this caused Mr A frustration  and stress. 
So I think there were avoidable delays in the repairs and I think esure didnt  sufficiently 
communicate with Mr A so as to manage his expectations. esure waived the additional 
excess for not using  an approved repairer and paid the transfer  costs  for the new garage.  
But I dont think this goes  far enough as the car wasnt moved because of Mr As preference  
for his own repairer.  I think  it was moved  because the approved repairer wasnt  making the 
needed repairs. 
The investigator recommended  that esure  should pay Mr A £150  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  this caused. I think thats  fair and reasonable as its what Id require in 
similar circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure  Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr A £150 further compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its level 
of service. 
Ref: DRN12243383Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1224338