K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly overcharged  him for 
his car insurance policy.
Reference to Skyfire includes their agents.
background
This complaint only relates to the premiums Skyfire charged Mr F for the polices taken out in 
January and February 2015. The January 2015 policy  renewed  automatically, but Mr F 
cancelled that shortly after and received a full refund. Later in February 2015, Mr F took out 
a new policy  with Skyfire,  but later cancelled that too and received a partial refund. He was 
unhappy about the partial refund so he complained. Our service  has already looked into that 
complaint separately  so I wont be commenting on Mr Fs complaint about the refund he 
received.
As Mr F felt he was overcharged for the policies he complained. But Skyfire  didnt uphold  his 
complaint. Mr F didn't think that was fair so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that Skyfire had treated Mr F fairly. As Mr F 
didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr F, but Im not going to uphold  his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr F has made a number  of detailed  points and Ive considered  all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Skyfire have dealt with Mr F in a fair and reasonable  way.
When Mr F took out his policy with Skyfire in 2013,  the insurance  database,  that records 
information about motorists driving  records, showed  that he had two past fault claims 
against him both in 2012. His premium for that year was just under £400.  When  Mr F 
renewed his policy in 2014, again the database  was showing that he had the two same  past 
fault claims against him. His premium for that year was again just under £400. 
During the policy year 2014, while insured with Skyfire, Mr F was involved in an accident that 
was recorded  as being a fault claim against  him. So when his policy  came to renew in 
January 2015,  there were three fault claims showing against Mr F on the database. To be 
precise, the accident in the policy year 2014 was initially showing as an open claim until it 
was changed  to a fault claim in 2016. In the insurance industry  a claim will remain open 
until a final decision is made as to whether it will be recorded as fault or non-fault. But as its 
not known what  the claim  will eventually be recorded as, insurers  work on a worst case basis  
that it will end up being a fault claim. For that reason, for the purposes of setting premiums, 
insurers treat open claims as they would fault claims. And thats what I think  Skyfire, 
correctly, did in Mr Fs case.
The premium for the January 2015 renewal was just under £1,000.  When setting that 
premium Skyfire took into consideration the two fault claims and the open  claim from 2014. 
But Mr F cancelled that policy soon after and was given a full refund. In February 2015, Mr F 
Ref: DRN17305982returned to Skyfire and took out another policy. His premium was just under  £1,400. Skyfire 
took into consideration the two fault claims and the open claim from 2014, because  at that 
time they appeared on the insurance  database.
I understand that one of the 2012 fault claims was later removed from the insurance 
database and the other  was changed  from fault to non-fault, so Mr F wasnt  happy that 
Skyfire charged him so much for the polices in January and February  2015.  But I can see 
that when setting the premiums Skyfire used the information available on the insurance 
database at those relevant times,  which is what I would expect them to do.
Its correct that the premiums in 2015 were  much higher than what Skyfire charged  in 
previous years. But it might help if I explain that we're not the industry regulator. That means  
it's not my role to tell an insurer how much  they can charge for their policies.  And our service  
generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat customers 
with similar  circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what  they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk.
Mr Fs premium did go up substantially, so I can understand why he was concerned.  But just 
because his premium  increased, I don't think that means that Skyfire treated  him unfairly.  
Skyfire provided me with information to show how Mr Fs premiums  increased. That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr F. But having looked at it 
carefully, Im satisfied that Skyfire treated Mr F in the same way as it would other 
policyholders in similar circumstances.  So I think they calculated  his premiums  reasonably.
When setting premiums,  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mr F thinks it was unfair  for Skyfire to charge a higher premium.  But 
each insurer will have their own methods of calculating risk. Im aware that many insurers  
say that statistically policyholders involved  in fault and non-fault accidents, especially recent 
ones, are at a higher risk of being  involved in fault accidents in the future. As insurance is 
essentially an assessment of risk, I dont  think theres anything wrong with insurers 
considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher risk groupings.  So I cant say 
Mr F has been  singled out or treated differently  to others in similar circumstances.  
I think Mr F was particularly unhappy that the premium he was charged in January 2015  was 
just under £1,000, yet when he took out a new policy with Skyfire the following month in 
February 2015, he was charged just under £1,400. The difference  was very high, but 
insurers will re-rate the risks they consider regularly. And many insurers  will do this on a 
daily basis. So the quotes an insurer provides will vary from day-to-day. And as insurers rate 
on numerous different  factors,  a small  change in those details can lead to an increase or 
decrease in rating factors. So Im satisfied that the daily change in rating data could fairly  
result in an increase  in premium.
Finally, Mr F said that he had protected no claims bonus (NCB)  years  that he felt should  
have protected  him against increases in premium costs. NCB years do often lead to a 
discount when  renewing a policy. But it doesnt prevent the increase in premium.
Ref: DRN17305983my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.   
 
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1730598