K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that a car she was financing through  an agreement  with Motability 
Operations Limited (Motability) was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mrs S took receipt of a new car in July 2015.  She financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with Motability.
In December 2017 Mrs S says the car started  to speed up unexpectedly  and she was unable  
to stop it with the brakes. The car was recovered  by a breakdown service. They identified a 
broken steering rack and the car was then taken to the dealership who confirmed  the same.
Mrs S has been left very scared by the whole situation. She says shes having nightmares; 
suffering pain in her shoulders and the issue has been so harrowing she no longer wishes  to 
drive again.  She returned the car to Motability  and terminated the agreement  in January 
2018 and she complained  to Motability  saying that this sort of fault should not happen  on a 
car that was only two and a half years old.
Motability said they were  only responsible for the quality of the car at the point of supply and 
as the problem had happened after 17 months it was for Mrs S to prove  it had occurred 
because of a fault that was present or developing when she took receipt of the vehicle. They 
said they had been supportive  of Mrs Ss situation as they had waived the £250 
administration fee that would usually  be due on early termination of an agreement  and that 
Mrs S hadnt  had to pay the £75 insurance  excess that was due on the insurance  claim as 
that had been waived  as well.
So Mrs S referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  an opinion.  He 
could not find any evidence to support Mrs Ss suggestion that the car suffered a brake 
failure as he noted  both the recovery service and the dealership had identified  a broken 
steering rack. He didnt think there was evidence of a fault with the car so he didnt support 
Mrs Ss complaint.
But Mrs S disagreed and she therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about the problems Mrs S has experienced. I can well understand 
how upsetting  the incident was for her and I hope shes  beginning to feel a little better.
Im required  to make a decision on what is most likely to have happened and to consider the 
evidence thats  been presented. Im afraid that I dont think theres  sufficient evidence  to 
suggest that there was a fault with the car Mrs S was driving  and whilst I know that will be 
disappointing for her I will try to explain why Ive come to that decision.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN16702002Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs S acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Motability,  who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs S. The car 
here was brand new when it was supplied so I would  not expect it to have  any faults at that 
time.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Motability to put this right.  
But Motabilitys responsibility for the car is not unlimited.  Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Motability are right to suggest that legislation would encourage us to assume  that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Here Im presented with evidence to suggest the steering rack is broken but I dont have any 
evidence to suggest that the steering rack broke because a fault was present or developing 
at the inception of the deal. Whilst I understand that Mrs S thinks the fault happened 
because the brakes  failed  I dont have any additional evidence about that other than Mrs Ss 
testimony. And even  if I did it would  need to persuade me that any fault with the brakes was 
there or developing  at the onset of the agreement  when  Motability  were  responsible  for the 
condition of the car.
In situations like this it is occasionally  possible to arrange an independent  inspection  of the 
car. But here I dont  think that would be practical  as the car appears to have  been  sold on 
and is not in Mrs Ss possession. The car also passed an MOT in June 2018 and I dont 
think that would have been  possible if the brakes werent  working. So even if I could arrange 
an inspection I dont  think it would  be likely  to shed any further  light on the cause of the 
accident.
Ref: DRN16702003So overall, whilst I can see that this has been  a very distressing time for Mrs S, Im afraid I 
dont have sufficient  evidence to suggest  there  was anything inherently wrong with the car 
she was hiring and I therefore  dont think Motability need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1670200