K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that since he paid off most of his outstanding credit card balance  Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  has reduced his credit limit twice. He says this has affected his 
credit rating and his financial  reputation. He wants his original credit limit to be reinstated.
background
Mr H has held a Barclaycard for a number of years  which had a credit  limit of £9,300. He 
says that because the outstanding balance was affecting his credit rating he made a 
payment of £8,850 to the card which Barclays received on 2 July 2018. He believed this 
would help him re-establish his credit score by reducing the overall amount of credit he had. 
Mr H says a few days later Barclays reduced  his credit limit to £3,450 and then several  
weeks later  while he was on holiday,  his limit was due to reduce again  to £2,600 although  
this decrease wasnt implemented.
Mr H complained to Barclays as he said hed wasted the payment hed made  because  now 
he had used up most of his overall  lower available  amount of credit and his credit  score 
would be more adversely affected. He said hed been penalised for doing the right thing 
previously.  
Barclays didnt uphold  his complaint as it said it had reduced Mr Hs credit limit in line with its 
terms and conditions. It said it had done this as a result of an assessment of his account and 
had confirmed  in writing what it proposed to do. And it said Mr H was given the chance to 
contact Barclays on receipt  of the letters.  It also said it didnt implement the second decrease 
because this would have put Mr H over his credit limit. In addition  Barclays told Mr H that  
at that time, it couldnt reinstate his original credit  limit but it suggested he could apply again 
in the future. 
Unhappy with this response Mr H brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
that  while  he understood why Mr H had made the credit card payment, he thought  
Barclays had acted  fairly in applying the credit card limit reductions. He said Barclays would 
have been expected to take into account  any impact to Mr H of doing so and he thought it 
had. He said that Barclays hadnt  intended to make Mr Hs credit  score lower and ultimately 
it was free to make a commercial decision about  how much it was prepared to lend Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he monitors his credit  score  carefully  and Barclays  actions had 
negatively impacted it. He accepted that Barclays  terms and conditions allowed it to reduce  
the credit  available to him at any time, but he didnt  think its actions were fair or responsible. 
He wanted the limit to be reinstated so that his credit file could reflect  the amount of 
available credit he previously had.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr H feels about  this matter as hes shown us that his most recent  
credit report  indicates hes used 97% of his available credit  and this total credit use was 
noted as a negative influence on his overall  credit score.  So I can understand his view that 
he could have expected his score  to have improved by freeing up around 25% of the overall 
Ref: DRN19447472credit limit he had at the time. And Mr H has provided credit report  statements to show  how 
his credit score was reduced  shortly after the limit was changed. Although Im pleased to see 
his most recent report showed the score  has recovered somewhat.  
I can see Barclays did lower Mr Hs credit limit to £3,450 in July 2018 and then to £2,600 the 
following month, although I note that - because hed been  on holiday and used his card 
Barclays was unable  to implement the second  change. But even with that in mind I dont 
think Barclays has acted unfairly here  which I know will disappoint Mr H, so Ill explain why.
Was Barclays entitled to reduce  Mr Hs credit  limit?
Barclays credit card terms and conditions state we set your credit limit according to your 
circumstances, your account usage  and history, information from other parts of the Barclays  
group, information  we receive from credit references agencies, and any other information we 
think is relevant.well review it from time to time.  If we change  your credit limit, well write 
to let you know  
And the relevant section entitled  managing your credit limit  explained if we reduce your 
credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we have the right to not 
give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be appropriate. We wont reduce  
your credit limit to less than your total outstanding  balance, plus any transactions authorised 
but not yet charged to your account.
So Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to reduce Mr Hs credit  limit, and did so in line with 
the terms and conditions. It also didnt reduce the limit to below his outstanding balance as it 
said it wouldnt. So I dont  think  Barclays has done anything wrong in carrying out the actions  
it did.
Did Barclays act unfairly in reducing  the limit?
There are many reasons  why a business  might  decide to decrease a customers  credit  limit. 
But it might decide  not to give a specific reason. And it doesnt  have to give notice about  
decreasing credit limits either. But I would expect a business to consider the impact a 
reduction might have on a consumers  overall ability to manage finances. In this case  I would  
have expected Barclays to have considered the impact of the reduction in Mr Hs credit  limit 
by encouraging him to contact it if the decrease was likely to cause any financial difficulties  
and where necessary to signpost  sources of free impartial advice. And I think  Barclays did 
do that because  its letter offered a number of ways to contact  it as well as directing Mr H to 
the credit  reference  agencies.
And Mr H has already told us that he reduced  his outstanding card balance  to help his credit  
score, so theres  no evidence that he had any financial difficulties or that he would  be 
impacted in that way as a result of the reduction in the credit limit. 
Mr H has referred  to the telephone conversations he had with Barclays as evidence  that the 
staff he spoke to agreed with his view that the credit limit reduction was unfair. Ive listened 
very carefully to those  calls and Ive heard how one member of staff did support his decision 
to bring his complaint to us. But I dont  think there  was any admission of Barclays acting  
unfairly. Indeed  the same  person outlined very clearly the reasons for Barclays decision. I 
think there was a suggestion  that in the circumstances Mr H should continue  with his 
complaint, but theres no evidence that she said she thought  Barclays had acted unfairly.   
Ref: DRN19447473So I dont  think Barclays did act unfairly in reducing  Mr Hs credit  limit because  its given him 
reasons why it made the decision and wrote  to him to confirm what  it was doing.   Its for 
Barclays to decide  how much it wants to lend Mr H as long as it makes him aware  of what  it 
intends to do.
Could Mr H have used  the money better  elsewhere? And did Barclays affect his credit 
score?
Mr H says he wasted using his money by paying  off most of the credit  card.  He says he 
could have used  it for other things such as his holiday. He says by doing the right thing 
hes negatively affected his credit score   which wasnt his intention. But I dont think it was 
Barclays intention to affect Mr Hs credit score either  and it didnt encourage him to pay off 
his credit card. So I dont  think its Barclays fault that Mr H wasnt  able to use his money for 
other things  and I dont  think Barclays had made any errors  which  caused Mr Hs credit 
score to be impacted  as a result of the reduced  credit limit. 
There are many factors that can affect  someones credit score  and Ive seen that Mr H had 
significant credit facilities  with other lenders  at the time. But I dont think it was Barclays' 
responsibility to ensure  Mr Hs credit  score was improved  it had a duty to accurately reflect 
his credit position which it did when it recorded the payment he made. After  that it was for 
Barclays to decide  what level of borrowing it wanted to make  available  to Mr H when it 
reviewed his account.
Ultimately here Barclays is able to review  Mr Hs credit limit at any time and make a 
commercial decision about  any changes it thinks are necessary. We would expect it to take 
into account the impact  on Mr H and make  him aware of any changes  while  giving him the 
opportunity to discuss the matter if it might cause any issues.  As I think  Barclays  did those  
things I cant safely say it acted unfairly here and Im not going to ask it to make  any 
changes to the credit card limit. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1944747