K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Miss T are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim on their home 
insurance. 
background
Mr B and Miss T contacted AXA to make  a claim on their contents  cover,  as part of the home 
insurance policy. They explained that when  they were packing for their holiday, they realised  
that some  of their items were missing.  They believed  their cleaner took them,  and they didnt 
think theyd seen any damage to their home.  
AXA declined their claim based on an exclusion in the policy  that there was no evidence of 
damage, violence or deception to get into the home. It said that the cleaner  didnt  deceive  
anyone  as she did indeed clean. So if items were taken, it thought it was likely  that it 
wasnt pre-meditated  and was instead  opportunistic. 
Mr B and Miss T were  unhappy with this decision.  They think  they were  deceived as the 
cleaner led them to believe she was just cleaning,  when she was also stealing from them.  So 
regardless of whether it was opportunistic, they were  deceived as to her true intentions.  
They added that they were told she had to suddenly leave the country, so it would be her 
last clean  and thats when they think she took the items. But through  social  media, they 
believe shes  not left. So they argue it wasnt opportunistic and was calculated.
On 18 February 2019, I sent a provisional decision,  which explained why I didnt think  AXA 
acted unfairly by turning down this claim. I said Id consider  any further comments and 
evidence, as long as I got them before 4 March  2019. Neither side has replied with anything  
further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given that neither side replied with 
anything further,  Ive not changed my mind  about  the outcome of this complaint. For 
completeness, Ive explained my reasoning again  below. 
Ive reviewed Section  2 Contents Cover  (Inside the Home) of Mr B and Miss Ts home 
insurance policy booklet. This says that no cover  is provided for theft [u]nless there are 
signs of damage caused  by the thief (or thieves) to get into the Home  or violence or 
deception was used to gain entry.
Ive also seen a copy of the policy schedule  that was sent to Mr B, and I note that their 
endorsements included  a Theft Explanation.  This set out the same requirement for there to 
be signs of damage,  violence or deception to gain entry. So Im satisfied that AXA was clear 
with Mr B and Miss T about what it would and wouldnt cover. 
As theres  no evidence  of damage or violence here,  this matter rests on whether deception 
was used to gain entry. Having considered the matter carefully,  I dont think  it was. The 
cleaner had been going to their home  for a reasonable  period  of time  and had indeed  
cleaned. Of course, its possible she wasnt a cleaner, and only said this to steal  from Mr B 
and Miss T. But disputes like this are only ever decided on the balance of probabilities   so 
Ref: DRN16269162whats more likely than not. And given that she did regularly clean the home,  I dont think its 
likely that she lied about who she was to get into their home.    
In saying this, Ive considered Mr B and Miss Ts view that the cleaner didnt reveal  she was 
going to steal  from them. But the terms focus  on who she said she was to gain entry . As Ive 
explained, theres no persuasive evidence to suggest she wasnt  a cleaner, and thats  not 
how she gained access. Ive noted her sudden departure and the discrepancy in her 
whereabouts  but I dont think thats suspicious  enough to doubt  her stated profession. 
If I was to accept Mr B and Miss Ts point, it seems  to me that anyone  who steals would 
have gained entry by deception  so including any guests  in the home,  like friends  and 
family. And I dont think the exclusion could be reasonably interpreted in this way  to mean 
that AXA would take on such a broad risk, with so many evidential  problems. 
I do appreciate this must be very frustrating  for Mr B and Miss T, particularly as theyre 
ultimately victims here. But that doesnt mean their loss is for AXA to put right. Its entitled to 
decide what its willing to cover. And I dont think its acted unfairly by turning down their 
claim, because that wasnt a risk it had agreed to. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Mr B and 
Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1626916