K820x#14complaint
Mrs F entered into a fixed sum loan with Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited,  trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF)  for the supply and fitting of a kitchen. She complains that 
the kitchen is unfinished  and badly  fitted and that BPF didnt deal with her claim correctly.  
She wants the loan cancelled,  a full refund, and for the kitchen to be removed. Her complaint 
is made against BPF under  section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
The complaint is brought  on her behalf by her husband.
background
Mrs F entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in October  2016  for the supply  and 
fitting of a kitchen.  She says that some items delivered were either wrong or damaged  and 
that fitters  have returned on several  occasions  but failed to rectify the problems. 
Mrs F contacted BPF in March 2017. BPF contacted the retailer and attempted  to liaise with 
both parties to ensure the problems with the kitchen  were fixed. But when Mrs F told BPF 
shed referred her complaint to the Furniture Ombudsman, BPF said it would close  its file. 
The Furniture Ombudsman concluded  that there were some outstanding  issues which 
needed to be fixed, but it noted  the retailer had agreed to repair these and had offered to 
pay Mrs F £200  compensation. The ombudsman thought this was a reasonable resolution to 
the complaint.
Mrs F brought a complaint  to this service in June  2018, saying that she wasnt  happy with 
the kitchen and the stress shed suffered over two years. She thought that if BPF had dealt 
with her section 75 claim when she first raised it  in March 2017  then the matter  wouldve 
been resolved.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that BPF had acted wrongly in responding to Mrs Fs complaint and that its 
payment of £150  for the distress and inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable.
Mrs F didnt  agree. Her husband  said, on her behalf and in summary, that the retailer and 
BPF havent acted honourably  or within the spirit  of his wifes claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75, if theres been  a breach  of contract by the retailer,  Mrs F also has, subject 
to certain conditions, the right to make  a claim against BPF, as the finance provider, for the 
breach. My role isnt to decide whether  or not section 75 applies here.  Rather, Im required to 
decide what, if anything,  BPF should do to resolve  this complaint. When  taking into account 
whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account (amongst other things) any 
relevant law. Relevant law includes section 75.
Ref: DRN10486922In the circumstances, I think BPFs response to Mrs Fs section 75 claim in March  2017 was 
right. It contacted  the retailer and liaised  with both parties to try to ensure that required 
repairs were carried out. But it wasnt appropriate for it to pursue  Mrs Fs section 75 claim 
when her complaint  about the quality  of the kitchen  was being dealt with by an ombudsman 
service. So, once Mrs F told BPF that shed referred her complaint to the Furniture  
Ombudsman, I think BPF was right to close its file.
When Mrs F referred  her complaint to this service,  BPF investigated what had happened  and 
contacted the retailer.  The retailer had offered to replace  the worktops and panels which  
BPF thought was a reasonable resolution and asked Mrs F to contact the retailer  to arrange. 
BPF had previously paid her £50 for the inconvenience shed been caused  and it paid her a 
further £100.
I understand from BPF that the new worktops and panels were fitted and that the retailer  
offered to pay Mrs F £1,000 compensation. And that Mrs F accepted  this offer.  Whilst I can 
understand Mrs Fs disappointment, and the stress thats been  caused, by the length of time 
this has taken to resolve, it seems  she has accepted  the retailers offer to settle the matter.  
So I dont  find that BPF is obliged  to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1048692