K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality. He 
wants MotoNovo to pay for repairs.
background
Mr R tells us he acquired  the vehicle in August 2018  through  a dealer Ill refer to as C. He 
says hes experienced a number of faults with the vehicle and has since spent over £4,000 
in putting things right. He says amongst the problems  was a battery acid leak; and various 
components have required replacing including  a coil; brake lamp; spark plugs and oil 
pressure switch. He says hes had an independent  inspection done by a company Ill refer to 
as A which he says supports his view that the battery acid leak was present at the point of 
supply.
MotoNovo told us the vehicle had been subject  to unauthorised repairs  and it had been  
unable to ascertain  if faults had been  present  at the point of supply. It said it had credited  Mr 
Rs account with £100 towards  the cost of an independent inspection.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think  the 
battery acid leak was present at the point  of supply. And she said the other repairs  werent 
linked to this anyway. She found  the issues were due to reasonable wear  and tear and to be 
expected with a vehicle  of this age and mileage.
Mr R didnt agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can confirm that this includes the information recently provided by Mr R in January 2020.
Im sorry  that Mr R has experienced  a number of problems with this vehicle which  has led to 
considerable expense in trying to get matters repaired. Unfortunately,  with older, high 
mileage vehicle the risk of something going wrong is increased. I can see at the point of 
supply the vehicle was ten years old and had a recorded mileage of 107,000 miles.
Mr Rs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined  as being what  a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard for issues which can include but are 
not limited to the age of the goods  and previous use.
Ref: DRN11700172Theres no doubt this vehicle suffered a number of faults but the first time I can see that Mr R 
complained to MotoNovo was in early  January 2019.  At this time the vehicle was undergoing 
a diagnostics examination by a garage  Ill refer to as IS. Ive seen an invoice dated 
7 January 2019 which shows the coil; air filter; spark plugs  and oil pressure  switch  were 
replaced at this time. The mileage at this point  is recorded as 115,511.
Some weeks later it seems Mr R had problems with starting the vehicle and again took it to 
IS. I understand that in the interim period there  was an accident involving the vehicle but that 
it remained driveable. As a result  of a further  examination it was found that battery  acid had 
leaked and damaged the wiring loom,  causing  it to burn out. I can see that on the same  day 
as this latest diagnostic inspection, 20 February  2019, Mr R settled the finance agreement  
and acquired ownership of the vehicle. He later complained to MotoNovo which indicated it 
wouldnt cover  repair costs or the hire costs of a replacement vehicle unless it was 
established the faults were present at the point  of supply.
Mr R seems to have  then authorised IS to carry out the repairs  and it did so at cost to Mr R 
of nearly £1,700. He subsequently arranged for the vehicle to be inspected  by A. This was 
conducted on 3 June 2019. The mileage  is recorded  as 116,841. The report found the 
vehicle to be without  faults at that time and in a condition commensurate with its age and 
mileage. But it did say that the wiring appeared to have  been replaced. And based on 
photographs it had been given it thought this was probably due to issues  which  had been 
present or developing at the point  of supply.
Whilst respecting As report Im not able to conclude that I should rely on it in respect of the 
battery acid leak. Ill explain why. 
The physical inspection of the vehicle revealed no faults. So the opinion regarding when the 
battery leak commenced was based on photographic evidence. The vehicle passed an MOT 
test on 14 August 2018. And whilst the MOT test is not designed to determine if a vehicle is 
of satisfactory quality it is meant to ensure that certain safety  standards  are met. Amongst 
the criteria for passing the test is a requirement that:
The battery must be secure and not show any signs of leaking electrolyte.
It seems  to me improbable  that if a battery acid leak had been apparent that the vehicle 
would have passed the test without advisories.
Similarly when the vehicle was repaired in January 2019, the letter confirming the work done 
by IS stated  an annual  service had also been  completed. Its hard to think  in these 
circumstances how a battery leaking acid wouldve been overlooked. And Ive seen 
information that prior to the next inspection of the vehicle by IS, when this leak was 
identified, that the vehicle  had been involved in accident. I also note the finding in As report 
that in other respects the condition of the vehicle was commensurate with its age and 
mileage.
Where theres a dispute of fact or information isnt clear  or complete Im required to make my 
decision on a balance  of probabilities. And based  on the facts Ive referred to Ive concluded  
its more probable than not that the leaking battery acid was the result  of gradual wear  and 
tear. And thats not something that MotoNovo  is responsible to repair.
Ref: DRN11700173Whilst the decision was a matter entirely  for Mr R, its hard to reconcile the settling of the 
finance agreement  and the resultant acquiring  of ownership of the vehicle with the view that 
the vehicles known faults were the responsibility  of MotoNovo. And by becoming the owner 
of the vehicle Mr R accepted  responsibility  for any subsequent faults which couldnt be 
shown to be present  at the point of supply. Whilst Mr R has supplied  a number of invoices 
for repairs carried out in late 2019 Ive seen nothing that shows  any of the issues  identified  
were present  at the point of supply.  Similarly, theres  no information to show  the latest  
reported fault - with the head gasket - was present  at that time.
In summary,  Ive concluded  that the probability  is that the faults identified with this vehicle 
are due to wear and tear issues which can reasonably be anticipated with a vehicle  of this 
age and usage. The latest recorded  mileage figure Ive seen  was from an invoice in 
December 2019.  This showed the odometer  reading as 119,647 miles. That means  since  
supply the vehicle has covered over 12,000 miles which is around the average use wed 
expect. Whilst I accept  the vehicles had several repairs during 2019 Im not satisfied that 
these were due to faults present at the point of supply.  So Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1170017