K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) increased the premiums  of his home  
and motor insurance policies at renewal  by unjustifiably high amounts. 
background
Mr W had home and motor insurance  policies  with UKI. When  Mr Ws home  insurance policy 
renewed in February  2019 his premium increased  by over 40%. He had had the policy  for a 
year and had made no claims. When his motor policy  renewed  in April 2019 the premium 
increased by over 27%. He had made no claims.  Mr W was disappointed with the renewal 
premiums hed been offered so he took his business elsewhere securing premiums  for both 
that were significantly less than those UKI had offered.  
Mr W complained  to UKI. He said hed been  subjected to abusive pricing by UKI. He said he 
was a loyal, trustworthy customer who was the sort UKI should  be seeking  to retain. He felt 
there was no basis for increasing his premiums  by such exorbitant  amounts forcing  him to 
take his business elsewhere.  He said he wanted  UKI to justify to him why hed experienced 
such abusive price  increases. 
UKI looked into Mr Ws complaint. It said its rating and pricing structure was commercially  
sensitive but was reviewed on a regular  basis. It said itd referred him to its loyalty  team  
which could look for applicable discounts and reductions. But it said the premiums  hed been 
quoted were correct.  
Unhappy with UKIs findings, Mr W complained to this service. Our adjudicator looked into 
Mr Ws complaint  but didnt think that UKI had done  anything wrong. She said she was 
satisfied that UKI had treated Mr W fairly and in the same  way that it had any of its other 
customers with similar circumstances.  Mr W disagreed  with our adjudicator. He thought this 
service was powerless and said that nothing could persuade him he hadnt  been treated 
unfairly by UKI. He disputed that UKI had treated him the same way it had its other 
customers with similar circumstances.  He said he was angry that his loyalty  had been so 
appalling disregarded by UKI. He asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr W, I dont think his complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
It might help if I first explain what UKIs entitled to do in terms of setting  the price.  I cant tell 
UKI what price it should charge Mr W for his motor insurance. Thats  for it to decide, based 
in part on the risk it thinks there is of him needing  to make a claim and its wider  commercial 
requirements. 
When calculating Mr Ws price, UKI will have needed to take account  of a number of things. 
Those will have included  the risk its taken  on for Mr W and all of its other  customers. And 
the total number and value of claims it thinks theyre  likely to make  in that year.  Itll also 
factor in its administration  costs and profit requirements. Each year, UKIs entitled to 
Ref: DRN17836452reassess these factors  when setting the price of its policies. So prices can go up or down, 
depending on what it thinks the risks are that year for all of its customers.
What this service can do though, when a consumer complains about the price they have 
been charged, is look at whether the insurer has treated the consumer fairly and whether it 
can explain  why its charged the price  it has. We can then explain to the consumer that 
weve checked the price  theyve  been charged and are satisfied that theyve been treated 
fairly and in line with the way that the insurer has treated all its other customers with similar 
risk profiles. 
UKI has explained to this service why the price of Mr Ws policies went  up in the way they 
did. That information is commercially sensitive so Im unable to share  it with Mr W. But I 
would like to reassure Mr W that Ive checked the information that UKI has provided  very 
carefully. And, having done so, Im happy  that UKI has treated applied its rating criteria fairly 
and consistently  in the same way it would to any of its other customers with similar  
circumstances. Ive seen  no evidence that Mr W was singled out in any way. 
And whilst UKI has no duty to explain to its customers how its priced  its policies it does have 
a duty to ensure they are sent renewal  offers  a reasonable amount of time before the policy  
renews so they have  the chance  to shop around or discuss the price with UKI if they are 
unhappy. Its for consumers to decide  whether they want to pay for the cover they are 
offered at the price they are offered. Consumers are free to canvass the market  and take 
their business elsewhere. And I can see that the price offered to Mr W by UKI was 
unacceptable to him so he declined the invitation, canvassed  the market  and took his 
business elsewhere. 
Because he was able to obtain cover  at a cheaper price from another insurer doesnt  make 
the price offered by UKI abusive.  Insurers are businesses and it is they that take on the risk 
of a claim being made. And it is for individual insurers to assess   however they may choose 
 what factors they want to take into account  when calculating how much  they want  to 
charge to take a risk on. Similarly, the decision to offer a discount to try and keep a customer  
is discretionary. UKI isnt required to offer a discount  or incentive at all. 
I appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed  that I cant explain his premium increase in more 
detail. And I appreciate he will be unhappy that I cant make UKI disclose greater detail 
about how its priced his policies.  But such information is commercially sensitive that, if it got 
into the public domain,  could put UKI at a commercial disadvantage with its competitors. We 
cant fairly expect insurers to disclose that information except to this service. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.  
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1783645