K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr S and Ms S payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened over 22 years  ago when the 
application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
I dont have strong evidence to show  that Bank of Scotland failed to follow the proper  
practice of making  Mr S and Ms S aware the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that 
they freely  chose to take it. Without stronger  evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that 
Bank of Scotland acted wrongly in that way.
Its likely  Bank of Scotland recommended  the PPI to Mr S and Ms S  and if it did, it means 
they had the extra responsibility of making sure it suited their needs. But I cant  be sure that 
it was unsuitable.  Mr S has said he would have received  very generous  sickness  benefits 
from his employer, although it seems he isnt completely  sure about the details. He has also 
said his family would have helped him out financially, as they were  wealthy. The problem is 
that this all happened about 22 years  ago and its not going to be possible to see how 
certain those kinds of help would have  been.  If they werent certain then it would have been 
sensible to recommend PPI. 
Also the PPI would have  paid benefits  at the same time as Mr S (the person covered) 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr S 
and Ms S would need to fall back on any other help. 
Ref: DRN17629002So the PPI was probably potentially useful. Overall, it wouldnt be fair, when there is so little 
solid evidence after all these years, to decide  that Bank of Scotland  acted wrongly. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the cost of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think full and clear information  about  the costs would have  affected  whether Mr S 
and Ms S took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr S and Ms S would have been affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1762900