K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan of £3,000 granted to him by Everyday Lending  Limited 
(EDL) in April 2012. Mr S has brought  his complaint through  a claims management 
company, and I will refer to him rather than his representative in this decision. In summary, 
Mr S says the loan was unaffordable and it was irresponsible of EDL to have provided it. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 3 December 
2019, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold this complaint. I gave  both 
parties a month to let me have any additional comments or information. Mr S says he agrees 
with my provisional decision,  EDL hasnt responded. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
evidence or arguments  for consideration, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  set 
out in my provisional  decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint.
what EDL should  do to put things right
Mr S shouldnt repay more than the £3,000 he borrowed. I am not making any finding  as to 
whether or not EDL did anything  wrong when it sold Mr S critical Illness  and Life cover 
alongside his loan. However, as I find the loan should not have been agreed, it follows  that 
Mr S would not have  taken out the associated products but for the sale of the loan. From the 
information I have  it doesnt seem  that he made a claim on this cover and so I think  any 
money he paid EDL in respect of this should  be refunded to him. 
I understand Mr S repaid  a total of £4,858.48 altogether leaving an outstanding balance of 
£3,374.87. EDL says it wrote off some of this balance in order  to meet internal criteria 
around loan rescheduling, leaving £2,733.86  which it eventually passed  to the debt 
collection company.
To put things right for Mr S, EDL should:
a)Consider all payments made  by Mr S as payments  towards the original capital 
amount of £3,000;
b)Refund all amounts paid by Mr S above £3,000 including any he paid to the third 
party; 
c)Add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
d)Liaise  with the third party to write-off  the outstanding debt (which  is solely  made up of 
interest and charges) by either buying the debt back or paying the third party an 
amount to clear  the outstanding balance;
Ref: DRN18767002e)Remove any negative  information from Mr Ss credit file in relation to this loan from 
when it was agreed to the date of settlement.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must  give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mr Ss complaint in part and direct  Everyday Lending Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18767003COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan granted to him by Everyday Lending Limited (EDL) in 
April 2012. Mr S has brought his complaint through a claims management company, and I will refer to 
him rather than his representative in this decision. In summary, Mr S says the loan was unaffordable 
and it was irresponsible of EDL to have provided  it. 
background
EDL agreed  a loan of £3,000 for Mr S on 16 April 2012.  It also agreed a loan of £614.15  to pay for 
associated Critical Illness and Term Life cover.  The total to be repaid over three years came to 
£8,233.25 with monthly  repayments of 229.04.
It seems Mr S first missed some repayments in late 2012. I understand he let EDL know he was 
working with a debt management agency in March 2013 and his repayment terms then varied over 
the years.  His final repayments were made in December 2016, the last of which  was for £1. The 
outstanding balance on the loan was £2,733.86 and EDL says that this debt was sold to a third party  
collection agency in October 2017 and a default registered on his credit file in November. 
Mr S says that he could not afford the loan and that EDL would not have agreed to lend to him, had it 
carried out an adequate  assessment of his financial circumstances. Mr S also says that the 
agreement is unenforceable; that the charges levied are unfair,  and that hes received  aggressive and 
threatening correspondence and telephone calls from EDL and from the collection agency. 
Our recent  adjudication  found  that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Our adjudicator  recommended 
that EDL refund all repayments  Mr S paid above the original capital  of £3,000  along with 8% simple 
interest per annum and that it remove any adverse information it recorded  on his credit file. 
EDL doesnt  agree that it was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr S. EDL also disagrees that it 
dealt unfairly  with Mr S when he told it of his financial difficulties. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I am upholding  Mr Ss complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for EDL 
and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have come to this conclusion.
The regulations
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when  Mr Ss loan was agreed.  Its Irresponsible 
Lending Guidance document (or ILG) set out what lenders like EDL needed  do before and after 
agreeing credit. 
ILG Paragraph 4.1 stated:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration  of the potential for 
the credit commitment to adversely impact  on the borrower's financial  situation,  taking account of 
information that the creditor  is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any 
assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, should  be dependent upon  and 
proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this guidance document).
Ref: DRN18767004'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which involves 
a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  or specific 
additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without  the borrower incurring  (further) 
financial difficulties and/or  experiencing adverse consequences.
Paragraph 4.2 stated:
Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view  this is likely to involve more  than solely 
assessing the likelihood of the borrower being  able to repay the credit in question . [my 
emphasis]
Paragraph 4.3 stated:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid by the 
borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular  without  incurring or increasing problem  indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end  agreements, within a 
reasonable period  of time [my emphasis]
out of income  and/or available  savings, without having to realise  security or assets.
Paragraph 4.4 described undue difficulty:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower being  able to 
make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that were  not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings and
without having to borrow  further to meet these repayments.
Paragraph 4.10 set out factors that a lender might consider when making an assessment, some of 
which were:
othe type of credit  product
othe amount  of credit  to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower
othe borrower's  financial  situation at the time the credit is sought
othe borrower's  existing and future financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other financial products and significant  non-credit  commitments
What this meant for Mr Ss complaint
EDL needed to make  a reasonable assessment as to whether or not Mr S could  afford to meet its 
loan repayments in a sustainable manner. Neither the law nor the OFT specified exactly how the 
assessment was to be carried out but, whatever the method, it needed to be enough  to assess the 
sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.  
Its important to note that this means the assessment needed to be consumer-focussed.  It was not an 
assessment of the risk to EDL of recouping its money, but of the risk to Mr S in having  difficulty  
meeting his repayments.  And the assessment needed to be proportionate to both the circumstances 
of the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lender might  need to be flexible in 
its approach to making such an assessment  what was reasonable for one consumer might not be 
so for another, or indeed what might be reasonable for a consumer in one circumstance might not be 
so for the same consumer in other circumstances.  
Ref: DRN18767005Bearing all of this in mind,  in coming  to a decision  on Mr Ss case, I have considered  the following  
questions:
did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss loan 
application to satisfy  itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did EDL complete reasonable  and proportionate checks?
EDL says it gathered  information from Mr S about his income and checked his bank statements  and 
his credit file. It provided  a copy of Mr Ss bank statements complete  with its handwritten notes  and a 
summary of what  it found  out about  Mr Ss credit commitments from its credit search. It also provided 
the income and expenditure figures  it relied on in its assessment:
Income £1,994.15
Rent £400
Creditor repayments £50.85
Calculated living expenses (35% of income) £697.95
Disposable income £845.35
EDL says that its assessment showed the monthly loan repayments of about £229 to be affordable. 
However, given that Mr S needed to make  this level of repayment each month for three years,  I think  
it would have  been proportionate  for EDL to have checked any repayments due in respect of other 
financial products and significant non-credit commitments and not relied on a standard  calculation  in 
this case.  And it had this information  in the form of Mr Ss bank statements for an account  he shared  
jointly with his partner covering the period  3 March  to 4 April 2012.
What would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have  shown?
I can see from this particular set of bank statements  that Mr Ss income for the period was £1,920.  His 
partners income was £678  giving a total income of just under  £2,600. Taking  all their existing (and 
ongoing) financial commitments and reasonably identifiable spend on food and petrol  yields  a total 
joint minimum expenditure of about £2,250. This figure includes an amount  of £400  Mr S said they 
spent on rent  this isnt identifiable on the bank statements but there is a post-office  payment of 
£400. This leaves a notional amount of £350 to meet  the loan repayments each month. 
Some of the ongoing monthly costs identified  above were  not Mr Ss but his partners, for example, 
two loan repayments and an insurance payment amounting to about £600. But as Ive considered  all 
the income coming into the account Ive considered all the expenditure going out. And in any case, 
repaying these existing debts left Mr Ss partner with very little to contribute to their other costs which 
then would then fall to him.
I havent included in my estimate an amount of £345 which was a repayment to a high-cost short-term  
lender as this would not need to be paid the following  month.  Other potential  one-off or ad-hoc  costs 
also not considered include a DVLA (work-related) payment and some non-food store  purchases. The 
cash withdrawals in this period amounted to about £800. Not all of these costs would necessarily 
appear the following month  but its reasonable  to assume that at some point over the three years of 
the loan term Mr S would need to pay for items not included in the above figures.
Mr S has provided  bank statements from several years and Ive looked through  those  covering 
January to April 2012. Mr Ss normal  income and expenses fluctuate and so too do the one-off or ad-
hoc purchases and cash withdrawals. But, as evidenced by the statements  which EDL saw, there was 
a risk that in any one month Mr S wouldnt  have sufficient income to meet  the loan repayments along 
with everything  else. 
Ref: DRN18767006EDL has provided its customer notes and I can see from these that it did check Mr Ss credit file and 
found he had very little current debt and no adverse information and evidence of good management 
of previous debt. But it was clear from the bank statements it had seen that Mr Ss living costs were  
far higher  than it had estimated.  When  Mr S had problems meeting his repayments later on, his debt 
management company sent EDL a financial statement dated December 2014 which  recorded living 
expenses of over £1,700,  which is consistent with what can be seen on his bank statements from 
around the time the loan was agreed. 
Had EDL considered fully the information it had available  or enquired  further into Mr Ss financial 
affairs, I think  it would have learned that there was a risk that he would not be able to meet his 
repayments for the loan over the lifetime of the agreement  in a sustainable manner. And so I find that 
it was irresponsible  to have agreed to lend to him on this occasion and it needs to put this right.  
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other  way?
As mentioned,  Mr S, through his representative, raised several other points in his complaint,  in 
summary that:
the agreement was unenforceable  because EDL didnt supply  him with a copy  of the 
agreement and associated account  paperwork  when  he complained;
in the absence  of the paperwork any default registered with a credit reference agency would 
be misleading  and inaccurate;
the charges  levied  in respect of a breach  of the agreement  are unfair  and hes had to pay 
unnecessary and unfair charges;
EDL didnt act with due forbearance and hes received  aggressive and threatening 
correspondence and telephone calls from EDL;
It was unfair to pass the debt to a third party  as they have added further charges to his debt 
and hes been subject to aggressive  and threatening collection methods. 
I plan to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I have set out my redress directions below in detail. In summary 
EDL needs to refund  Mr S any interest and charges  he paid above  the original  capital amount of 
£3,000 and also it needs to remove any adverse information recorded  on his credit file up to the date 
of refund. So, the first three points listed above are no longer in contention.
I have considered whether  EDL did everything it ought to when  Mr S told it he was experiencing  
financial difficulty. As I mentioned above it seems Mr S began to have trouble meeting  his repayments 
in December 2012. I can see from the customer records that Mr S said this was to do with issues 
setting up a direct debit  with his bank. EDL noted that Mr S didnt have control  of his finances  and it 
seems the lender worked with Mr S from then to take payments when he had available funds. 
Mr S continued to have problems meeting  repayments and told EDL on 1 March 2013  that he was in 
a debt management plan.  A few months later Mr S added EDLs  loan to that plan and EDL worked 
with the debt management company to arrange  payments. From  then until late 2017 it seems EDL 
were in touch  with Mr S or his debt management company on a weekly or monthly basis.  I cant  see 
at any point that the lender  refused to engage  with Mr S about his repayments or that it intended to 
charge him any more interest than had been agreed from the outset. So I dont think  EDL did anything 
wrong in terms of its duty to treat Mr S sympathetically  and fairly. And while the correspondence 
between Mr S and EDL was constant and frequent it doesnt seem  to me from the information  I have 
that it was either aggressive or threatening. 
Finally, I dont think EDL did anything wrong  in selling the outstanding debt to a third party collection 
agency. It is after all, entitled  to collect money that is owed to it. I dont  have any information about 
what exactly happened since  the debt was sold on but, as per the redress details below, Mr S should 
not pay any more than the capital he borrowed, either to the lender or to the collection agency. And if 
he wishes to provide  more information about his interactions with the collection agency then I can look 
further into that aspect of his complaint. 
Ref: DRN18767007what EDL should  do to put things right
Mr S shouldnt repay more than the £3,000 he borrowed. I am not making any finding as to whether or 
not EDL did anything wrong when it sold Mr S critical Illness  and Life cover alongside his loan. 
However, as I find the loan should not have been agreed, it follows  that Mr S would not have taken  
out the associated products  but for the sale of the loan. From the information I have it doesnt seem 
that he made a claim  on this cover and so I think any money he paid EDL in respect of this should be 
refunded to him. 
I understand Mr S repaid  a total of £4,858.48 leaving an outstanding balance of £3,374.87. EDL says 
it wrote off some of this balance in order to meet internal  criteria around loan rescheduling,  leaving 
£2,733.86 which it eventually passed to the debt collection company.
To put things right for Mr S, EDL should:
A.Consider all payments made by Mr S as payments  towards the original capital amount of 
£3,000;
B.Refund all amounts  paid by Mr S above £3,000 including any he paid to the third party;  
C.Add simple  interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts  from the date they were paid 
to the date of settlement*;
D.Liaise with the third party to write-off the outstanding debt (which is solely made up of interest 
and charges)  by either buying the debt back or paying the third party an amount to clear the 
outstanding balance;
E.Remove any negative information from Mr Ss credit file in relation to this loan from when it 
was agreed to the date of settlement.
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN1876700