K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  wrongly recorded that 
theyd made  a claim under their home insurance  policy.
background
In April 2017 Mrs M contacted UKI to check whether she was covered under her policy for 
breaking the glass on her mobile phone. UKI said it was covered. So she made a claim.
A few days  later Mrs M found that the glass wasnt broken after all  just the film on the top. 
Mr M rang UKI to cancel the claim.
On renewal Mr and Mrs M found  that UKI had increased the premium  by 13% to £209. When  
they decided to shop around, he discovered  that UKI had registered  the above  incident as a 
claim. They say as a result the quotes from other  insurers  went up. 
Mr M complained to UKI. It said it wouldnt remove the notification  from its records.  Thats 
because it had referred the matter to a claims handler and incurred a small charge.
Mr and Mrs M dont  think this is fair and brought  their complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought  what UKI had recorded was factually  
accurate and he said he hadnt seen  any evidence that their premium had been increased 
on renewal due to the claim.
As Mr and Mrs M dont agree, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Insurers have a system for classifying claims and incidents which they record  on a shared 
database. They have  an obligation to provide accurate information on that database.  Mr M 
says that he did not in the end make a claim.  I can see that UKIs entry on the database 
says claim  not pursued . I think both statements are true but UKIs statement is more  
technically correct.
Thats because when  Mr and Mrs M called  UKI to enquire about  making  a claim, UKI 
explained that theyd have  to pay an excess and how the claim would proceed.  They  
accepted that and so the enquiry was logged  as a claim. That led to UKI appointing a 
supplier to validate the claim and even though the claim didnt proceed any further, the 
supplier made a small charge. So although  Mr and Mrs M decided  to withdraw the claim,  
I dont think UKI treated  them unfairly in saying  that theyd made  a claim but not pursued  it.
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that theyll now have  to disclose this claim when applying  for 
insurance in future. Depending on the wording of the question theyre asked, they might  well 
have to disclose  it. But I dont think this is UKIs fault and if the insurer checks the claims 
database, theyll see that the claim  wasnt  pursued.
Ref: DRN19166532UKI has shown us that the claim didnt affect Mr and Mrs Ms renewal premium. But the 
premium still went up by about 13%. Its important to understand that this service doesnt  
have a remit to assess  pricing methodology generally, such  as considering whether products 
represent good value for money.  So we generally  accept that insurers  can charge what they 
like for insurance so long as they act fairly. In simple  terms that means that they should 
apply their chosen pricing model consistently so long as the consumer  has flexibility to shop 
around and change insurer if they wish.  Im satisfied thats the case here. Mr and Mrs M did 
shop around and changed insurer.
In this decision I can only look at what UKI  and not any other insurer  might  or might not 
have done wrong.  That means I cant consider the premium quoted  by any other insurer  to 
Mr and Mrs M. I can see from information supplied by UKI that the other  insurer called UKI 
and UKI confirmed that the claim had been  withdrawn. Ive already decided  that was 
accurate. I cant hold UKI responsible if that information affected the premium  quoted  by the 
other insurer since its not up to UKI how other  insurers use that information to price their 
policies. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1916653