K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he received from Zurich Advice Network Limited (Zurich) 
to invest in a portfolio  investment bond (bond). He says this advice was, for a number of 
reasons, unsuitable.
Mr D brings his complaint  with the assistance of a claims management company. For 
simplicitys sake Ill refer to any submissions made  on his behalf as if Mr D had made them 
himself.  
background
In 2002 Mr D, following  advice from Zurich, invested £120,000 in a bond.
Between 2002 and 2005 Mr D made 39 monthly  withdrawals of £500 from the bond totalling 
£19,500.
Between 2003 and 2005 Mr D made 23 other  withdrawals from the bond totalling  £96,710.
In 2005 Mr D surrendered  the bond and received  surrender proceeds of £544.
Therefore Mr D suffered  a capital loss of £3,246 on his bond  between 2002 and 2005.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded it should be 
upheld. In summary she wasnt persuaded that the recommended bond was suitable for 
Mr D. She then went on to explain what Zurich should pay Mr D by way of fair compensation. 
In doing so she concluded that Mr D was unable or unwilling to take any risk with his cash on 
deposit.
Zurich didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January  2019.  In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I know both parties have very strong  feelings about  this complaint. I want to stress that Ive 
read and considered everything that has been provided, but I wont reply  at similar length. I 
dont intend any discourtesy by that; it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
At the time of investing Mr D was in his mid-thirties and married with one dependent. He 
declared an income of £2,000 a month (net) and outgoings of approximately  £1,600. He had 
assets, excluding  his mortgage free property,  of £159,000. Mr Ds assets of £159,000  were 
made up of £157,500 cash and a £1,500 cash ISA. The £157,500 cash had come from a 
critical illness policy pay out.
Mr D also declared that because of his critical illness  he may have to, or elect  to, work less 
hours in the future, which in my view meant  his income going  forward was at a real risk of 
being less than the £2,000 (net) he had declared in 2002.
Ref: DRN19777502Also until the receipt of his critical illness policy pay out, Mr D had been unable to save 
anything other than £1,500 in a cash ISA.
As well as having very little by way of savings (other than his critical illness policy  pay out) it 
was also recorded  in 2002 that Mr D had debts in the region of £17,000, which on 
clearance (and after provision for two smaller recommended investments of £4,500)  took 
his remaining cash on deposit  (after investment) to £24,000.
Furthermore I dont think Mr D could have been described in 2002  as anything other than a 
nave or novice investor. In 2002  his assets  were  all cash based  with no exposure to risk 
based investments.
Given what I say above Im not persuaded that Mr D had the capacity to take too higher risk 
with the cash  he had on deposit. But in my view that is what Zurich recommended he do, 
recommending that he invest  £120,000 of his cash on deposit  (representing over 75% of his 
initial deposit of £157,500  and over 80% of his adjusted deposit  of £144,000 (after  
clearance of debt and provision for two smaller investments)) in a fund that invested 80% in 
shares (UK 58%, European 10%,  Far Eats/Pacific 5%, US 5% and Latin American  2%) and 
4% in property.
However, although Im satisfied that Zurichs advice was unsuitable, on the grounds  of being 
too higher risk, Im not persuaded that Mr D was unable or unwilling  to take any risk with his 
cash on deposit. In my view given what Mr D was looking to achieve  he was willing  to take a 
small amount of risk with his cash on deposit  and he had the capacity to do so. And because  
of this Im currently of the view that Zurich should  pay fair compensation different to that 
proposed by the investigator.
I then went on to explain what I felt was fair compensation for Zurich to have  to pay.
Mr D responded to say that he agreed with my provisional findings  and accepted them.
Zurich responded  to say that it didnt  agree  with my provisional findings but accepted them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have accepted  my provisional findings  I now confirm  them  as final.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr D 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr D would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr D's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
Ref: DRN19777503what should  Zurich do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Portfolio 
Investment  
Bond 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Zurich should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Zurich totals all those  payments  and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Ref: DRN19777504why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr D wanted income  with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr D into that position.  It doesnt mean that Mr D 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr D could have obtained  from investments suited  to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Zurich  Advice Network Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Zurich Advice Network Limited should  provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1977750