K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Miss F complain that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited has declined their 
contents insurance claim for a lost engagement  ring. 
background
Mr G and Miss F took out contents cover  with Lloyds in 2015. None of the policy optional 
extras were selected  (such as cover  for possessions when outside the home).  In November  
2017, Mr G purchased an engagement ring for Miss F. In July 2018, Miss F lost the 
engagement ring whilst  they were on holiday in the UK. They  made a claim to Lloyds under 
their contents insurance policy.  
Lloyds declined their claim. It said the policy didnt cover the loss. It also said that the level of 
cover on the policy  had been  selected  by Mr G and Miss F on the internet. When  they called  
to activate the policy Lloyds said itd asked  them whether they wanted to go through the 
policy cover  at all and they said no. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to Lloyds,  Mr G and Miss F complained  to this 
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
He said that losses  such as theirs would be covered under the optional personal belongings 
cover offered by the policy. But he said they hadnt  decided to select and pay for that cover. 
He said hed reviewed  the two phone  calls between  Mr G and Lloyds but in neither were  the 
policy terms discussed and he noted  that Mr G had declined the offer for a summary of the 
cover. So he didnt think Lloyds had misled  Mr G and Miss F about  the level of cover 
provided by their policy. 
Mr G and Miss F disagreed with our investigators  findings. They  said theyd called Lloyds 
after the purchase of the engagement ring to make sure it was covered. They  asked our 
investigator to ask Lloyds  to search for the calls against both their landline and their mobile 
numbers. They said if theyd been told by Lloyds that the ring wasnt covered theyd have 
paid the extra premium to make  sure it was. 
Lloyds ran searches  against all their numbers around the time the ring was purchased  but no 
calls were traced. Mr G and Miss F asked  for their complaint to be referred  for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any upset this decision will 
cause, Im afraid Im not minded to uphold Mr G and Miss Fs complaint. 
I have no doubt  that the loss of the engagement ring was very upsetting  for both Mr G and 
Miss F. It mustve been doubly so when  their claim was declined  by Lloyds. 
But despite  my natural  sympathies for the situation Mr G and Miss F find themselves in I 
dont think that Lloyds has acted unreasonably.  Cover for contents away from the home  is 
typically always a policy add-on offered  by insurers. Because its an extension  of cover it 
will attract an additional  premium. Thats because the risk the insurer is being asked to take 
on will have  increased. 
Ref: DRN17895392Mr G and Miss Fs contents  policy only provided  standard contents cover  for items damaged 
in the home.  I can see from their policy documents that there were a number of additional 
optional covers that were  available which  werent  selected. I think the documents  were  clear 
that these were offered but werent  selected.  The covering  letter sent out each year with the 
documents stated,  Check  that the cover is still right for your needs  by reviewing the limits,  
[and] cover optionsLet us know if anything has changed.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr G and Miss F selected just the standard 
cover. They  must have  been content  to do so because Lloyds asked them during the two 
calls (in 2015 and 2016) if they were  content with the cover theyd selected (they were) and if 
they wanted to go through the cover or just take the policy out (they  said they just wanted to 
take the policy out). So Im satisfied that theres no evidence the cover was misrepresented 
by Lloyds or that the policy was mis-sold. Mr G and Miss F were clear  about the cover they 
wanted.
And I think that the paperwork  they received was clear and not misleading. Lloyds provided 
them with no advice  as to the suitability  of the cover  they were selecting so the responsibility 
for making  sure they had what  they needed rested with Mr G and Miss F. 
That being  the case, they werent  covered  when  the engagement ring was lost. The policy 
terms state that only when the optional personal  belongings and money cover is selected 
does the policy cover accidental loss and damage  and theft of personal  possessions away  
from the home. 
Ive thought about what Mr G and Miss F have said about contacting  Lloyds just after they 
bought the ring to make  sure it was covered. Lloyds has searched against calls received 
from all the numbers provided by Mr G and Miss F but can find no trace  of any such  call 
being received.  I know that Mr G and Miss F dont believe  what  Lloyds has said about this. 
But Ive seen screenshots of Lloyds call recording system and am able to confirm  that the 
searches show no call was captured around  that time. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
ignore this evidence.
Having taken everything into account, I dont  think that Lloyds has unreasonably declined   
Mr G and Miss Fs claim. Unfortunately their policy  doesnt cover them for a loss in the 
circumstances nor is there any evidence that they requested the optional personal 
belongings cover be added to their policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss F 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1789539