K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains, via his representative, that he was mis-sold a number  of savings plans and 
capital investment programmes by Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Savings Plans
Mr P took out four savings  plans after meeting with a Sanlam representative on four 
occasions between  October 1988  and March 1991, contributing a total of £110 per month. 
Mr P surrendered these  plans in June 2013.
Mr Ps representative says they were unsuitable for Mr P because they werent due to 
mature until 2022 and 2023. It says Mr P had no need for such  inflexible long-term plans  
he didnt have a lot of disposable income and he was looking for an investment for around 
ten years  to build a deposit for a larger house.  Mr Ps representative says that under the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation  (LAUTRO) code of conduct, which  
applied at the time, Sanlam needed  to recommend  the most suitable product for his needs. It 
says Sanlam offered  a 10 year savings plan that wouldve provided a greater return  due to 
its lower charges. So, it shouldve recommended Mr P take out this type of plan instead.
I appreciate why Mr Ps representative believes the savings plans recommended by Sanlam 
were unsuitable  for Mr P. While  it was possible to cash  in the policies at any time,  the 
charging structure of the plans meant that they were only efficient investments if they were 
held for the longer term. This is why the maturity dates were  in 2022 and 2023,  when  Mr P 
would be around  his retirement  age.
Ive taken into account what Mr P has said about  not having  a lot of disposable income  and 
that he was only looking to tie up his money  for around 10 years. But this isnt reflected in 
the paperwork completed at the time.  The Sanlam  adviser completed  a client factfile in 
October 1988. This shows Mr P had a mortgage with a repayment vehicle, that he had a 
steady income and that he already  had savings of £3,000. The notes suggest Mr P was 
looking to save to maintain a high standard of living, but there  werent any particular aims or 
objectives noted. There is no mention of Mr Ps intention to move house or that he only 
wanted to tie up his savings for 10 years or less. The adviser updated  the client factfile  at 
each meeting, but recorded that there  hadnt  been any change  in Mr Ps circumstances. 
Mr P signed  each time to confirm this. So, I think its fair to assume Mr P was happy with the 
advisers assessment  of his circumstances each time.
Based on what Ive seen  from the time of the sale, I think  Mr P was, on balance, looking  to 
save for the longer term. So, Im not persuaded that the 10 year savings plans identified by 
Mr Ps representative wouldve been more suitable  for him. Im also mindful that Mr P was 
provided with the savings  plans brochures  each time he agreed to take out a new plan. The 
brochure highlighted that Mr P could access his savings at any time, but that the plans were 
designed so that the full benefit  and worth would be realised after around  25 years. So, 
I think he wouldve known that the plans were  designed to be kept for the longer-term. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Mr P wanted to access  his savings sooner than this. 
Ref: DRN12478492The fact that he didnt surrender the plans until 2013  also demonstrates his intention to keep 
the policies running over the long-term.
Overall, I dont  think the savings plans  recommended to Mr P were unsuitable.
Capital Investment Programmes
Mr P took out two capital investment programmes plans in November 1988 and 
October 1989, investing £1,000 and £500. Mr P surrendered  them in February 1993.
Mr Ps representative says at the time the capital investment programmes were sold,  
Sanlam didnt carry out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk. It also says Mr P wasnt 
made aware  hed need to keep the investments for at least  five years to generate  a return.
The paperwork completed doesnt document Mr Ps attitude to risk. But given there wasnt  
any regulatory requirement to record this at the time of the sale, I dont think  this means 
Mr Ps appetite for risk wasnt discussed. The paperwork shows  Mr P already had savings 
on deposit, so I think  its reasonable to assume  he was willing  to take a higher level of risk 
with the funds he was investing to achieve a greater return. And I think  the recommended 
plans met that objective. 
Mr Ps circumstances at the time of the sale of each investment were as Ive stated above, 
so Im satisfied he intended  to invest the funds over the long-term. It isnt clear why Mr P 
surrendered the plans  in 1993, but I dont think the adviser couldve anticipated this at the 
time of the advice.  I also think it was highlighted to Mr P that the capital programmes were 
designed to be a medium to long-term  investment. I say this because  the brochure made this 
clear and Mr P confirmed hed received the brochure each time he applied  for a new plan. 
So, I think he wouldve known he would receive  a very limited  return,  if any, if he 
surrendered the plans  early.
Overall, I dont  think the capital investment plans were unsuitable  for Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1247849