K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains as a director  of L, a limited  company, that Markel International Insurance 
Company Limited  declined to pay Ls own solicitors fees in full. 
background
The claim relates to Ls professional liability cover with Markel. In September  2017 it notified  
Markel of a potential claim against  it relating to work L carried  out for a client.  Once 
proceedings were  served, Ls broker contacted Markel in April 2018.
Mr G said Markel insisted  it would not appoint  its panel firm to act and expected  L to 
complete the acknowledgement  of service alone.  He said as a result L had no choice but to 
appoint its own solicitors  to defend  the claim. Mr G was unhappy L incurred additional costs 
as a result  of this.
Markel said it didnt refuse to appoint a panel  firm. It expected L to complete the 
acknowledgement of service with its guidance  to avoid  L incurring an excess  at an early 
stage in the proceedings. Because Mr G didnt want to defend  the claim alone, Markel  asked  
Ls broker to check whether Mr G was aware  of the £1,000 excess. But in May 2018, the 
broker contacted  Markel  with information about Ls newly appointed solicitors.  Markel said 
that had L confirmed it was aware of the £1,000 excess and confirmed it was willing to pay it, 
it wouldve  appointed  a panel firm to take over the defence of the claim.
Mr G didnt agree and referred the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint and said it wasnt unusual for Markel  to ask L, as a commercial customer, to try 
and complete the acknowledgement of service without solicitors being appointed.  She also 
said that had Mr G responded  through Ls broker that he was aware  of the £1,000 excess, 
its likely  Markel would have appointed  a panel firm. Overall, she didnt find Markel was 
unwilling to appoint a panel firm to represent  L.
As there was no resolution, the case has been passed to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding Ls 
complaint. Ill explain  why below.
The parties should note that whilst  Ive reviewed everything, Ill only be referring to the 
information relevant  to the main issues in dispute. 
Ive looked at the communications between the parties to determine  whether Markel refused 
to appoint a panel firm before L completed  the acknowledgement of service.  The claim was 
notified to Markel by L, through its broker in April 2018. When  Markel explained L could 
familiarise itself with the small claims court process and issue a response and draft a 
defence, the broker explained  the next day that L wasnt comfortable  with this and would 
prefer if a panel  firm was appointed. Markel then sent an email to the broker  to ask Is the 
insured aware  that they would have to pay the first £1,000 of any legal costsWhatever we 
decide to do, the Insured  need to at least acknowledge  the claim. At this point, I think  
Markel reasonably expected a response before going ahead  with appointing a panel firm. It 
Ref: DRN13947772also checked whether  L could send the acknowledgement. Thats because the 
acknowledgement was time sensitive.
The records  Ls broker has provided  show it explained to L that Markel  would take over the 
defence of the claim, but that L would  need to file the acknowledgement of service  before it 
did so. It also explained that a £1,000 excess was payable and provided the claim pack 
which wouldve contained  instructions for filing an acknowledgement of service within  it. 
It appears that no further contact was made with Markel for another eight days. At that point 
the broker told Markel Ls newly appointed solicitors had filed the acknowledgement of 
service on its behalf.
Although L appointed  its own solicitor, Im not persuaded Markel  did anything  wrong  by 
failing to appoint  solicitors when Ls broker initially enquired about this. Its right that Markel 
suggested L file an acknowledgement and defence themselves but that was because the 
claim it was defending fell within the small claims track. This means that costs arent 
generally recoverable,  and the process is intended to be accessible to litigants in person. 
Given the nature of the claim against  L, I can see why it wouldnt have wanted  to defend the 
claim without  the benefit of legal advice. So I understand  why Ls broker  went  back to Markel 
to say it wasnt happy with this. Its right that at that point Markel asked L, through its broker, 
to file the acknowledgement of service.  But the broker  also told L that Markel would take on 
the claim,  subject to the policy excess being paid and the acknowledgement being  filed.  So 
as far as L was concerned, Markel  was amenable to taking on the claim. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Markel to raise the question of the excess  and require 
the acknowledgment  to be filed before agreeing to take on the claim. The value of the claim 
was just under £9,000. The excess itself formed over 10% of that. So L might  have decided 
not to pay it and pursue the claim in person. And the acknowledgment was time sensitive, so 
it needed to be filed to allow L further time to file a defence. Because of this and given what  
Ive said above,  I dont think Markel are obliged to pay Ls costs incurred before its 
acceptance of the claim. 
I know L is also unhappy with the hourly rate Markel have  offered to pay Ls solicitors. The 
policy terms define costs  and expenses as all legal costs and expenses reasonably 
incurred byYou with Our written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) 
 
Markel didnt provide  their written consent to Ls solicitor being appointed  from the outset- L 
appointed those solicitors of their own accord  and without reference to Markel. That being 
said, Markel has agreed to cover  their costs up to £160 per hour which  is the same  amount it 
wouldve paid its panel firm. I dont  think this is unreasonable. Had L referred back to Markel 
before appointing their own solicitors, I think Markel wouldve appointed their panel firm to 
act for them,  subject to payment of the excess and filing of the acknowledgement.  And as 
Ive said, the claim itself was a small claim- so it would be a disproportionate use of costs to 
expect Markel to pay the rate that Ls solicitors  were claiming. I understand this was £300  
per hour which is inappropriate given the location  of Ls solicitors  firm, and from what  Ive 
seen about the nature and value  of the claim and the level of fee earner that wouldve been 
required to conduct  it.   This is highlighted by the court  guidelines.
Ref: DRN13947773my final decision
I dont uphold Ls complaint against Markel International Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1394777