K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about misrepresentation. She says she was misled by Select  Contracts 
UK Limited  into entering a financial agreement for a vehicle which  wasnt  suitable for her 
needs. She wants to end the agreement or be supplied with an alternative vehicle.
background
Miss P says that Select arranged for her to hire a vehicle which  she said shed advised it 
would only be used  for school runs and local driving.  She informs us that she had problems 
with the vehicle and that the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) was replaced a couple of times  
by the dealer. Miss P states that she was then told that she needed to drive  the vehicle at a 
high speed over several miles in order to avoid the filter on the vehicle from clogging  up. She 
says this resulted  in unnecessary mileage  and shes had additional expense in having to 
have the vehicle repaired.
Select told us that Miss P had specifically enquired about the model  of vehicle she 
eventually chose. It (Select) hadnt recommended it to her. It said that she hadnt explained 
her driving style and that it would expect a customer to research the vehicle about which  
they were enquiring. It said that as Miss P had been  experiencing the issue  with the DPF for 
a substantial period  it advised she take this up with the suppliers customer service team as 
further investigation might be required.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said hed listened to 
several recordings of phone calls between Miss P and the sales  agent. He said that Miss P 
had told the agent shed  be driving  about 8,000 miles per year. But he said that at no point 
had the nature of the intended journeys been discussed. He said Miss P had also been  the 
one to suggest the model of vehicle  she eventually chose. So he thought she wouldve had 
the opportunity  to look at the various features of the vehicle. He didnt think  it was necessary 
for Select to made Miss P aware  about the requirements for vehicles with Diesel Particulate 
Filters (DPF).
Miss P didnt agree with the outcome. She said she felt the DPF point should have been 
mentioned and that she wouldve made it clear she didnt know  too much  about cars. As its 
not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of writing  this decision the hire agreement has reached its full duration and the 
contracted period of hire has expired.  This doesnt  affect my decision on the merits of the 
complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss P has been  disappointed  at the performance of her vehicle. I can see she 
feels shes been caused avoidable  inconvenience  and expense by information  which  was 
either misleading or insufficiently clear about the ongoing  requirements of the vehicle.
Ref: DRN11018342I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Select acted as credit  broker for 
this agreement. That is it introduced Miss P to the supplier of the finance for the vehicle, a 
company Ill refer to as L. This means that Select would be potentially liable for any 
misrepresentation of the finance  agreement or the description of the vehicle. But it wouldnt 
be liable  for the quality  of the vehicle  itself. That would be the responsibility  of L. 
Miss Ps complaint seems to overlap both the issue of misrepresentation of the vehicle and it 
not being of satisfactory quality. As this complaint is brought against Select, I emphasise that 
my decision  relates only to the alleged misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and to suffer a loss as the result of the misrepresentation.  Its also possible - in 
limited circumstances  - for a misrepresentation to be the result  of an omission.  This might 
occur in the event  of a half truth.  For example,  if information was correct  as far as it went  - 
but material facts were omitted  - so as to make the statement as a whole misleading.
When our adjudicator issued his opinion he provided detailed summaries  of calls which had 
taken place between  Miss P and the sales agent  between September  2016  and November  
2016. As he outlined  the contents  of those calls I neednt repeat them here as both parties  
have seen them. 
I concur with his view that the specifics of Miss Ps driving style werent discussed. Theres  
mention of an average annual mileage of around 8,000 miles. But nothing about  how that 
would be accumulated.
Initially, discussions centred on a different model  of vehicle  to that eventually chosen. But it 
appears Miss P was set on a particular  model  and thereafter the discussions were  more 
about cost, vehicle colour and delivery period. I note that Miss P ordered  the vehicle  in 
November 2016  but that it wasnt supplied until March 2017.  And theres a further call in 
March 2017 when she voices her disappointment at the delay.
Ive taken note of what Miss P has said about  her not knowing much  about motor vehicles. 
But I dont think this changes the basic issues I have to consider. The information  shows she 
made her choice of model after lengthy discussions. Its a reasonable expectation that a 
consumer will take some steps to inform  themselves  about  issues  which might be relevant  to 
their use of the vehicle.  Its not realistic for a dealer to explain every aspect which might 
affect the performance of a vehicle. So I dont  think the lack of specific discussion about  DPF 
requirements amounts  to a material omission  or a misrepresentation.
Im aware that Miss P says she experienced problems with the DPF - even after following 
the manufacturers guidance. But the fact that this part was apparently replaced twice  may 
also suggest the issue is to do with the vehicle itself. And as I explained earlier Select  is not 
responsible for issues of vehicle quality.
In summary,  theres insufficient information to show there was any misrepresentation of 
either the agreement  or the vehicle.  So Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN11018343Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1101834