K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M complains that shes been the victim of fraud  and thinks Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS)
should reimburse her.
Background
Mrs M told us that fraudsters managed to transfer  a large amount of money from her savings
account into her current account, and then from her current account  to an account held with
BoS for her business. She says money  was then transferred out of her business account
and sent to the fraudsters account.
Mrs M told us she didnt  know how the money had been transferred between  her accounts.
Notes from the business say that Mrs M received a call which  she believed was from BoS. 
These notes also say that shed been  told thered been an attempt of fraud for £25,000 and 
her account  needed to be protected.  Shed  asked  the caller  how she could verify they were 
from the bank. This had resulted in her calling her branch, on a number shed  sourced  
herself, and it had been confirmed the caller  was genuine. It would appear that this call with 
the branch was actually still part of the same scam,  and the call had simply been redirected 
to someone else involved  in it. 
Having now been  supposedly verified as genuine,  the caller had then asked for Mrs Ms 
credentials and had attempted to access the account. Mrs M was asked to press  respond 
shortly afterwards and was told this was to change the accounts.
Mrs M doesnt  think she shared her online banking details over the phone.  Though, due to 
the passage of time, her recollections  are hazy.  She cant  remember  whether she 
downloaded any software but thinks it could  be a possibility. But shes adamant that she 
didnt authorise  these transactions.
BoS said that it found the payments to have been  authorised by Mrs M. It said that the same
IP address was used throughout 10 February  2017  the date of the transfers in question. It
also said that it sent a text message  to the number belonging to Mrs M to let her know  that a
new payee had been set up.
Mrs M said that she hadnt noticed  the text alerting her to the new payee being set up. She
also said that, as shed been  the victim of fraud  before, shed changed her banking details:
the account number, sort code and online banking details. And because the caller knew
these details and shed had it confirmed by BoS that the caller was genuine, shed
proceeded.
Our service issued a decision to explain that some aspects of the complaint are
outside of our jurisdiction  due to delay in referring the complaint after BoSs  final
response. As a result, I can consider the complaint about the transfer of money between,  
and out of, Mrs Ms personal  accounts with BoS, but not the transfers out of her business
account.
Our investigator considered the aspects of this complaint  that were  deemed to be within  our
jurisdiction. He noted that BoS had only provided  IP address details for the day the fraud
took place. But he explained that even if this matched with details of transactions known to
have been carried  out by Mrs M, it wouldnt  rule out someone gaining access  to her device.
Ultimately, he didnt  think that the transactions had been authorised so proceeded to
Ref: DRN12410072consider whether he felt Mrs M had been  grossly negligent (a defence for banks under the
relevant regulations). He didnt  think that being  a victim of a scam previously meant Mrs M 
couldnt be an unblameworthy victim of a scam  again. And he was satisfied her actions were 
intended to protect  her account rather than careless.  He didnt think that not seeing a text 
message could fairly be considered grossly  negligent. For this reason, he felt the complaint  
should be upheld.
BoS doesnt think Mrs M took sufficient care and allowed the online banking activity to take
place. So, it didnt think it should be held responsible for refunding Mrs M. The complaint
was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020 to let both parties  know  how I was minded 
to proceed. In summary  I said:
-The loss of £25,000 originated from Mrs Ms personal account,  which  is the account 
that dominantly and effectively suffered  the loss as a result of the scam. While a 
higher amount was transferred out of the business  account, this falls outside of our 
jurisdiction. So I can only consider the loss of £25,000. 
-In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (which  were in force  at the time), 
Mrs M isnt liable for payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed to comply   
with gross negligence or intent   with the terms of the account  or to keep her 
personalised security  details safe.
-I havent seen  sufficient information  to conclude Mrs M authorised the transactions.  It 
seems the fraudster logged on and made payments  using  information  likely obtained 
from Mrs M by falsely saying thered  been  a fraud  attempt and they needed to protect 
her account.
-Mrs Ms version of what happened  isnt precise.  She cant  recall whether she was 
asked to download any software  and she didnt think, in more recent calls with our 
service, that shed given away her details, with earlier notes from the business 
suggesting she did. But I dont think its unreasonable, given the passage of time, 
that her recollections have faded.  Im satisfied she has given statements in good  faith 
to the best of her knowledge  and belief. For the avoidance of doubt, there is no 
persuasive evidence  that she is anything other than an unwitting  victim  of fraud.
-From  what Ive seen, weve only been given the IP address from the day of the 
fraud, not from a day on which Mrs M accepts  she made a payment. But even if we 
were provided with an IP address for the latter and found it to match,  it doesnt rule 
out the possibility that someone  covertly  accessed Mrs Ms device when, acting on 
instructions supposedly from the bank, she was asked to press respond. So 
ultimately, I cant safely say that Mrs M authorised the payments. In other words, 
the burden falls on BoS to show that she breached  the account terms and/or 
disclosed her security  details either  intentionally or with gross negligence.
-Starting with intent,  Ive seen nothing persuasive to suggest  that, contrary  to the
terms and conditions of the account,  Mrs M failed to keep her security details safe 
with intent. On the contrary, we already know that she changed her account  details 
after previously being a victim of fraud,  which suggests the intent of keeping details 
safe. So, I think it most likely that, faced  with a plausible story from an accomplished 
fraudster, she genuinely believed she was protecting her account,  not jeopardising it.
-Moving to gross  negligence, Im also not satisfied  BoS has shown that Mrs M failed
with regard to this. Her previous experience of fraud  made her wary of the caller,  
whom she came to trust partly as they had her new account details. And the action 
Ref: DRN12410073she took was to try to contact her bank  to verify  the caller as genuine. These arent  
the actions of someone acting in a grossly  negligent manner. A text message was 
sent to her, which she didnt see at the time.  But I dont think it would be at all fair or 
reasonable to suggest that failure to notice or read a text message in the amount of 
time involved here constitutes gross negligence either.
- It seems  to be that there isnt much information available to piece together the 
events. The bank  has the burden of proof,  so Mrs M gets the benefit of any doubt in 
this regard. Based on what Ive been provided with, I dont  think  Mrs Ms actions fell 
so far below what a reasonable  person wouldve done  that it amounts  to gross 
negligence  and BoS hasnt provided enough evidence to suggest otherwise. So Im 
minded to say, in line with the 2009 Regulations, that Mrs M isnt liable for the
transactions and BoS needs  to put things right.
I also said if I upheld the complaint,  Id ask BoS to pay Mrs M £25,000, the savings  account  
interest rate from the date the funds left the account to the date of settlement (less 
applicable tax) and £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision,  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings, summarised above.  I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  against Bank of Scotland  plc. 
I ask it to:
-Pay Mrs M £25,000
-Pay her the savings account interest  rate from the date the funds left the account  to 
the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible at source)
-Pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1241007