K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time of sale as 
Alliance and Leicester)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out in 2006. Mr S applied for 
the policy in a meeting, when he was also applying for a mortgage.  The policy covered him 
against accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Mr S says Santander didnt make  it clear PPI was optional.  He says he was told it would help 
with the approval  of the mortgage  if he took the policy. He also says it was impossible to 
cancel the policy.  He thinks Santander mis-sold the policy to him.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Here are my reasons:
Mr S says Santander told him it would help his application if he also took the MPPI 
policy. So I have looked into this and considered whether  Mr S had a choice to have the 
insurance when  he was arranging his mortgage.
I have been  able to read through the sales documentation that was used at the time of 
sale to give me an idea as to what more likely  than not happened. I have been able to 
see a mortgage  financial review that has in it a section for MPPI. I can see that the 
advisor has recommended MPPI to Mr S. There is also a Key Facts document  and 
within this under section 9 of this form MPPI is described as optional insurance. So I am 
persuaded when I see this that Santander more likely than not gave Mr S the choice to 
have MPPI. 
I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr S and Santander  during the meeting. Its 
completely understandable that Mr Ss recollections are not detailed as the sale took 
place a number  of years ago. And because of this and considering what I have  seen in 
the sales documentation, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely  to say 
Santander didnt  explain that PPI was an optional feature.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr S or not 
during the sale.  If it did, it would  have had an additional responsibility to ensure the policy 
was suitable for him. On looking  at the information provided and in particular the 
Ref: DRN16568112mortgage financial review document, I think advice was given. And based  on the 
information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr S.
I say this after considering Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale. Because,  although 
Mr S says he had 13 weeks of sick pay and savings  he could have relied  upon  along 
with a critical illness policy, the MPPI policy would have paid out if he was made  
unemployed or if he was sick in addition to his means. Having the policy  in place would 
mean Mr S could use any provisions he may have had to cover other expenses. I dont 
think his means are sufficient for me reasonably  to say that he wouldnt have had a need 
for the policy. 
Mr S was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits. It is 
unlikely Mr S needed better advice or information  about the policys  exclusions and 
limitations and if he had received clear information  on these terms I dont think  it would 
have put him off.
 
I cant be sure that the costs  of the policy were  disclosed in a clear way, but even if 
Santander did, I dont  think  Mr S would have done anything  differently for the same 
reasons as I have  already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable .
Finally Mr S says it was impossible to cancel the MPPI policy.  He says this because he 
doesnt think he has received any details about  the insurance and specifically any contact 
details for the insurer. He also doesnt  believe he has been given any information  on 
amendments or changes to the premium over the life of the insurance. I agree with our 
adjudicator, that if Mr S has any issues with the insurer  and its communication over the 
policy, he should discuss this with them first and if he still has concerns about this then he 
can contact our service and make a separate complaint.
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
my decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1656811