K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P has complained Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have unfairly  
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy.
Background
In 2014 Mrs P took out a lifetime pet insurance  policy to cover  her dog. The policy  is
underwritten by Red Sands.
In November 2016 Mrs P complained to Red Sands about the significant increase in her 
premium. Red Sands  issued their final response to Mrs P in January  2017. That complaint 
was not brought to our service.
Mrs Ps premium  rose again at renewal in 2017  and in 2018 at which  point she complained 
again. Mrs P says she doesnt think she is being  treated fairly in comparison to other  
customers and that the increase in premiums  is to more than cover  her claims going forward.  
She also believes Red Sands are increasing  her premium to deter her from renewing.  
Red Sands  say the premiums have been calculated correctly for the risk presented  to them.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that I can only look at Mrs Ps complaint about premium 
increases since 2016. Thats because Mrs Ps complaint made  in 2016 wasnt  brought  to our 
service within  six months of the date of the final response letter, so it falls outside of the
timescales set out in our rules.
Its also important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much  to charge for
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  their
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how they
should operate  and thats  not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Ps policy is too high,
she should have  been charged less for the policy or that she should  be charged less in the
future. 
Insurance premiums  are calculated so that they can reasonably  be expected to cover the 
likely claims  arising  from an insurance  contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term  
viability of the insurer. The calculation is generally  based on the probability of the insured 
event occurring, combined with the likely  financial loss resulting from the claim. All insurers  
take a number of different factors into account  when doing this calculation.  And we wont
interfere with these  calculations.
Insurers will typically revisit and reassess  the risk each year based  on the volume and
cost of claims their customers have made. So if the cost of paying claims increases
significantly, an insurer will revisit  the way they calculate the premium  to make sure they can
continue to cover claims in the future   theres nothing wrong with them doing this.
While Mrs Ps premium  did see a significant increase in 2018,  I havent seen any evidence
to suggest Red Sands have treated her differently to how they would have treated any other
Ref: DRN16335382policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Red Sands have singled her out and treated 
her unfairly compared to their other customers or that they should charge her a lower 
premium going forwards.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mrs P took out, will continue to cover  any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal particularly if claims are 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Red Sands  should  have  made these longer-term  cost implications  clear  to Mrs P before she 
took the policy.
But even if they didnt make this clear  at the time,  I cant say that Mrs P wouldnt have been
reasonably aware  that these types  of increase were possible in 2018 - as she had made  a
similar complaint about a significant premium  increase before. As Ive said, I can only look at 
what happened after that complaint was made.  I know Mrs P thinks  its unfair to make 
assumptions on her case. But I cant fairly say I think she is likely  to have been particularly 
shocked by the premium  increase in 2018.  While its possible she carried on with the policy 
on the basis that the significant increase in 2016 was a one off, given the information she 
was given about the reasons for the increase at that time, its more likely she would have  
understood it could  happen again  particularly  if she made  claims,  which  she has done. 
I know it will be disappointing for Mrs P and appreciate shes in a difficult position  as 
her dog has existing  medical  condition. But having  looked at everything,  I dont think  Red 
Sands did anything wrong when they increased  her premium in 2018 and Im not able to 
uphold her complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1633538