K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that a hire purchase  agreement  with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, 
trading as Alphera Financial Services, under which a car was supplied to him, was mis-sold 
to him.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr B under  a hire purchase agreement  with Alphera Financial 
Services that he electronically signed  in October  2018. The price of the car was £9,665 to 
which a warranty of £300 and insurance of £299 were added. He complained to the dealer 
that the car was advertised  online  with a price of £9,265 and that hed been told that the cost 
of the warranty would be included in the price of the car. The dealer agreed to pay him £700 
(the £400  difference  in the price  of the car and the £300 cost of the warranty)  and he 
cancelled the insurance within the cooling-off period. 
He complained to Alphera  Financial Services that he shouldnt  be paying interest on the 
agreement because it was inaccurate. It said that hed read and signed  the agreement  and 
accepted its terms and conditions. Mr B wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to 
this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She thought  that 
it was fair of the dealer  to refund £700  to Mr B but didnt think that it was fair for him to pay 
interest on that amount under the agreement. Alphera Financial Services  has said that its 
unable to amend  the agreement but it will refund to Mr B £192.29 - which is the amount of 
interest that hell pay on £700  throughout the term of the agreement. And she thought that 
that was a fair outcome  in the circumstances.
Mr B has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He asks how can 
Alphera Financial  Services  give him a refund  of money that was added to the finance  
agreement but not change the agreement and how can that be fair. And he says that the car 
wasnt as described  as it was cheaper on the internet  than it was on the forecourt.
Alphera Financial  Services  has agreed  to also refund  to Mr B an amount equivalent to the 
interest that hell pay under the agreement  on the £299 that he paid for the insurance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The dealer  has agreed to refund £700 to Mr B  which is £400 for the difference between the 
price that he paid for the car and the price that was shown  on the internet and £300 for the 
cost of the warranty. That means, in effect,  that the price that Mr B has paid for the car has 
been reduced from £9,665 to £9,265 and hes received the warranty  free of charge. So that 
puts him in the position that he thought hed be in when he was buying the car. He also 
cancelled the insurance during the cooling  off period. 
He says that he wasnt aware that the car was being  supplied to him under  a hire purchase  
agreement or that he was paying interest for the car. But he was provided with pre-contract 
credit information and the hire purchase agreement  which he electronically signed  in 
October 2018. Its clear  from both of those documents that he was entering  into a hire 
Ref: DRN19513582purchase agreement  with Alphera  Financial  Services  and that he was paying interest at a 
rate of 12.9% APR and that the total cost of the interest under the agreement  was 
£2,680.53. He made an advance payment of £500 for the car but didnt pay the price of the 
car to the dealer.  So I consider that its reasonable to conclude that he knew  or ought 
reasonably to have  known   that the car was being  supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement.
The hire purchase agreement included £9,665 for the car, £300 for the warranty and £299  
for the insurance.  Mr B says that hes received £700 from the dealer and hes cancelled  the 
insurance policy and received  a refund of the £299  that he paid for it. But hes paying 
interest on those amounts  at a rate of 12.9% under the agreement.  Alphera  Financial  
Services has agreed to pay him £192.29 which is the amount of interest  that would be 
payable under the agreement on the £700. But I consider that it should  also pay him an 
amount equivalent  to the interest  that hell be paying  on the £299 during the term of the 
agreement. It has agreed to do so.
The price  that Mr B paid for the car was £400 more than the price of the car on the internet. 
The dealer  has refunded  the difference to him and Alphera Financial Services has agreed to 
pay him the interest that hell be paying under  the agreement. But Im not persuaded that 
theres any evidence  to show that the car wasnt as described in any other respect. Nor am I 
persuaded that the hire purchase agreement was mis-sold to Mr B or that Alphera Financial 
Services has acted incorrectly in its dealings  with Mr B. 
So, other than the payments referred  to above,  I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to take any action in response  to Mr Bs complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. And I order BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera  Financial Services,  to:
1.Pay to Mr B the £192.29 that its agreed to pay him.
2.Pay to Mr B an amount equivalent to the interest that hell be paying under the 
agreement on £299 that was included  for the insurance. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1951358