K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc charged  him for making an 
overpayment on a loan and recorded  adverse information on his credit file.
background
In October  2018 NatWest  wrote to Mr W to tell him it was going to close  three current  
accounts he held with NatWest. He also had a loan from NatWest  and, in November 2018, 
he paid it a sum of money he thought would leave a small  balance  outstanding on the loan 
that he would then clear.
NatWest charged Mr W additional interest  for making an overpayment.  It then tried to take a 
payment from Mr W by direct debit which was returned unpaid. It informed credit  reference 
agencies (CRAs) that payments on the loan were missed in November and December 
2018.
Mr W complained  to NatWest. It didnt uphold his complaint so he referred it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They thought NatWest 
hadnt told Mr W he had to repay the loan and it was entitled  to charge additional interest 
under the loan terms and conditions. They thought the information NatWest  had given to 
CRAs about the loan was fair and reasonable.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators recommendation. He says he was well in advance  
with the payments he was required to make under the loan agreement so NatWest  shouldnt 
have reported  late payments  to CRAs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The letter that NatWest  sent to Mr W in October  2018 deals primarily with the closure of his 
current accounts. Early  in the letter  it says:
We formally demand repayment of any funds  owed to [NatWest]
But later in the letter it says:
With regard to your [loan]  we strongly  recommend that you give serious consideration to 
transferring this borrowing to another lender.
If your borrowing  remains  with [NatWest],  you are still liable to fund this facility by making  the 
agreedrepayments
Looking at the letter as a whole I think its reasonably clear that the demand for repayment 
only applied  to any borrowing on the three  current accounts that were  being closed. I think  
Mr W should have known  he could  continue to pay the instalments on his loan and he didnt 
have to repay it in full.
Ref: DRN18573342The terms and conditions  of the loan say:
You may make overpayments at any time. in order to compensate  us for our reduced 
earnings under this agreement you will be required to pay us additional interest.
the overpayment  will be used to reduce  the Loan Term and your Monthly Repayments will 
remain unchanged and will continue to fall on the scheduled repayment dates until the Loan 
is repaid in full.
Im satisfied NatWest was entitled  to charge Mr W additional interest when he made the 
overpayment in November 2018. It was also entitled to receive a further  payment in 
November 2018  to cover the outstanding  balance of the loan which was slightly  less than the 
monthly repayments Mr W had agreed  to make. NatWest  didnt  receive the further payment 
so the information it gave  CRAs that the payment hadnt been  made  was accurate.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied NatWest  has applied the terms and conditions of the 
loan and has treated  Mr W fairly  and reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against National Westminster Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1857334