K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that after it made  a series  of errors, TSB Bank plc (TSB) took the decision 
to close two of his bank accounts. Though it acknowledges  many of its mistakes, he feels  
TSB has failed to adequately compensate him for the significant stress and inconvenience 
he has suffered.   
background
Mr I held several accounts with TSB including a mortgage, current  and savings accounts.  In 
April 2018 he found he was unable to access his banking facilities  online and as things didnt 
improve he complained  to TSB about  this in June 2018. TSB apologised and agreed  it had 
provided poor service.  It agreed to pay him £430 compensation in recognition of the trouble 
and upset caused and the additional  expenses he had incurred. 
TSB also advised Mr I that based  on the significant number of complaints he had previously 
made (30 in all), it felt it was unable  to provide the level of service he required. It told him the 
banking relationship had broken down irretrievably  and it therefore decided to give him two 
months notice of the closure of his current and savings accounts.  TSB told him he was 
required to repay his overdrafts before the account  closure.   
Mr I made  a further complaint about the decision to close his accounts and also about  the 
manner in which he was informed. TSB agreed it could have managed  the situation better. It 
apologised again in writing and agreed to pay Mr I a further £250 compensation. However it 
stuck by its decision to close  Mr Is accounts  and to demand repayment of his overdraft 
within two months.
Mr I submitted further complaints, saying the £3,100  he owed on his overdraft amounted to 
more than two months salary and it was unreasonable to ask him to repay  it so quickly.  He 
also highlighted further errors TSB had made during the account closure process which  had 
led to him suffering further inconvenience and embarrassment. He requested  TSB put an 
affordable repayment  plan in place to enable him to manage the repayment  over a more  
realistic timescale. 
TSB agreed  the matter hadnt been dealt with appropriately and at the end of January 2019  
it issued him a further written apology. It agreed Mr Is account could remain  open  for an 
extended period  to enable  him to pay back his overdraft by affordable  monthly payments. It 
also awarded him a further £325  compensation with an additional £50 to cover  any 
expenses incurred.
Mr I told TSB he was happy with the resolution offered and providing nothing further went  
wrong, he considered  the matter closed. 
Ref: DRN15717232Our investigator felt TSB had dealt  proactively  with the various complaints which  had been 
raised and said she felt the level of compensation paid, together  with the offer to put a 
repayment plan in place, was a fair outcome.
Mr I disagreed with the investigators view. Although he initially  said he was happy with the 
resolution offered  by TSB and considered  the matter closed, he felt the compensation he 
had been awarded was grossly insufficient  for the inconvenience and stress  he had endured. 
It therefore falls to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The only matter I have to decide  is 
whether or not the level of compensation awarded is sufficient. The remaining problems are 
all now resolved and Mr I is banking  elsewhere. 
Mr I encountered problems with his TSB accounts for around 9 months.  During this period 
he received a series  of letters  containing inaccurate information  and he had several negative 
encounters on the phone with customer service representatives. He describes suffering 
grief, hardship and high levels of personal  distress.
Although the initial problems  stemmed from the wider IT failure which  affected  many of its 
customers, the way TSB initially dealt with Mr Is various complaints fell short  of what could 
reasonably be expected.  
However, once TSB recognised the extent to which Mr I had been  let down, it escalated the 
matter to a more senior level and made  significant  efforts to make  amends. In addition  to 
issuing several written apologies,  it agreed to Mr Is request to repay his overdraft in monthly  
instalments. Altogether it paid him £975 compensation, plus an additional £80 to cover his 
out-of-pocket expenses.  
I agree  Mr I suffered considerable  inconvenience as a result of TSBs  poor management of 
his bank accounts. He says he feels further compensation should be awarded to enable  him 
to seek medical treatment for the stress he has suffered.
But in deciding whats fair, Ive also considered that TSB is entitled  to close Mr Is account 
and it gave him reasonable notice of this decision. The seven day switcher service was 
available to Mr I. Therefore TSBs decision to close his accounts wont have caused any 
interruption to his banking service.
Although TSB should have initially agreed  a repayment plan for his overdraft, it has now 
apologised for this error and agreed a suitable  plan. And this was done before the current 
account was closed altogether. There have been multiple mistakes  made by TSB. But taking  
everything into consideration,  I feel the level of compensation already awarded to Mr I is fair 
in the circumstances. I dont think it would be fair to ask TSB to pay him anything further.
Ref: DRN15717233my final decision
For the reasons  Ive outlined above I think the compensation already paid by TSB Bank  plc 
to Mr I is sufficient  and Im not going  to tell it to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1571723