K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc closed two of his accounts and hasnt 
paid out any money  to him from them. He says he didnt close these  accounts  and wants  his 
money traced and paid to him.
background
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said in summary:
RBS says Mr S had three accounts  with it. A current account  was located in its 
dormant account  database and the money  in it has been released  to his nominated 
beneficiary.
Due to the passage of time RBS says it has very limited information  on the two other 
accounts and they werent  located in the dormant accounts database. Thats  
reasonable as a financial business isnt required to keep records indefinitely  and 
these accounts  were closed more than 20 years ago. A Crown Reserve account was 
closed in 1994. And a Diamond Reserve account was closed in 1996. So theres no 
money to pay to Mr S. 
Mr S says he didnt close the accounts and there was money in them. But RBS cant  
now say how they were closed which is reasonable given the passage of time. And 
without any supporting evidence he cant now say what  happened.  But on the 
available information its likely the accounts were  closed. 
Mr S doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he says he never 
had any money from the deposits he made  into these two accounts in good faith. Thats  
unfair. He wasnt told the accounts were closed and he says RBS has been negligent. He 
thinks RBS should  trace the money even if it was put into offshore accounts. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
RBS says these two accounts were closed in 1994 and 1996. And as result  it has limited  
information about them or their closure.  Given the time that has passed and that a bank isnt 
obliged to keep  information for an unlimited period, that isnt surprising or unreasonable.  
But RBS has checked its dormant account database  and these two accounts do not appear 
on it. That suggests they have been closed. 
Mr S says he didnt close them and, as he lives abroad, wasnt in the country  to do so. Hes 
supplied an account  statement and paying  in document for one account  showing it had 
Ref: DRN15013312money in it. But they relate to the position  and transactions a year before  that account  was 
closed. And as RBS says its likely  other transactions mayve subsequently taken place. So, 
although those  documents give a snapshot of the account at the relevant times I dont think  I 
can fairly or reasonably conclude they represent an accurate or up to date picture of the 
accounts subsequently or now.
I understand Mr S frustration. But taking the available evidence  into account including that 
the accounts do not show on RBS  dormant accounts database, I think on balance that its 
more likely that the accounts  were  closed in 1994 and 1996, and the balances of money  paid 
out of them,  than not. And as result  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably now require RBS 
to pay anything to Mr S as hed like. 
There is a suggestion  that the two accounts were  closed and the money  transferred into 
offshore accounts  possibly in Jersey. 
Mr S thinks  RBS should trace the money in these  offshore accounts.  But I dont think it can 
reasonably be asked or expected to do so, as offshore  accounts  will be taken out with and 
held in separate businesses in those jurisdictions which arent under  the control of RBS even 
if they have a similar name or apparent  connection to it. 
We also dont have  jurisdiction to consider complaints about offshore accounts with banks 
located in the Channel  Islands or indeed other countries. This is something Mr S may need  
and wish to take up with the relevant RBS company,  or other bank, in the offshore 
jurisdiction in the first instance. And if he remains  unhappy with the response he gets from 
RBS or other bank  in Jersey he can take his complaint to the Channel  Islands  Financial 
Ombudsman who may have jurisdiction  to consider it.
Its also not for us to decide if a bank  has been  negligent. Thats something only a Court can 
do.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr S strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1501331