K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a mortgage. 
I know that when  Mrs A took this mortgage  out, Santander was trading as Abbey. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer to Santander  for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs A disagreed  with that view.  
So the matter  has been passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs A, but I havent  upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mrs A told us that she bought this PPI on the telephone. I havent been given a copy of a call 
recording, which isnt unusual given that this policy was sold over 10 years ago. I wouldnt 
expect either  party  to keep records indefinitely. So to help me decide  whats likely to have 
happened during that call, Ive looked at what Mrs A remembers  about  it. And Ive also 
considered the paperwork  thats available from the time.  
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mrs A would have known this PPI was optional  
and she didnt have  to take it out if she didnt want it. Mrs A said she was coerced into 
buying the PPI by a slick sales person. She also told us that she felt pressurised at what 
she described as a complex time  in her personal  circumstances. 
I dont doubt that what  Mrs A told us is what she honestly remembers about the way PPI was 
sold to her. And I dont underestimate her feeling  of vulnerability at that particular time. But 
objectively, I dont  think she was coerced.  
As I said above, PPI was sold over the telephone  and so a number of documents dated 20 
February 2008 were  sent out to Mrs A, including the mortgage offer and a summary of the 
PPI application.  A welcome letter was sent shortly afterwards. I know  Mrs A told us she 
didnt receive the PPI welcome pack, but I think shed have received the 20 February  2008 
documents. Thats because the mortgage  offer was an important document and I think  shed  
have raised a query if it hadnt been sent to her. 
I can see from section nine of that offer letter that it was stated that Mrs A didnt have to take 
out any insurance with Santander. And given  the importance of this document, I think  Mrs A 
would have read it in full in her own time and at her own pace after it was sent to her through  
the post. If PPI had been presented as compulsory, I think its likely shed have raised a 
query at that time. I can also see that PPI was presented in a separate document to the 
mortgage, so I think  shed have realised it was a separate product.  
Ref: DRN12942102Ive thought carefully about what Mrs A said about being coerced. She hasnt told us 
precisely what Santander said or did in order to coerce her. I think  Santander probably spent 
a lot of time discussing PPI with Mrs A and recommended the policy to her. But I dont think 
thats the same as intimidating or pressuring her into buying  the policy. 
I appreciate that Mrs A was taking out this mortgage at a very stressful  time for her. And 
although I appreciate she wont agree, I think she would have probably  known  she didnt 
have to buy this policy at the time. 
The parties agree that Santander advised Mrs A to buy PPI. So it had to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for her needs. To help me decide whether  the policy was suitable, Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive also looked at what Mrs A told us 
about her personal  circumstances  at that time. 
I can see that if Mrs A had to make  a claim on her PPI policy, her mortgage  repayments 
would have been covered  for up to 12 months  if she had an accident  or became unwell and 
couldnt work. The cover didnt include  redundancy. Mrs A told us that shed have  received  
six months full pay and six months half pay if she was out of work and so she didnt need the 
cover. But I think this policy would have paid out in addition to the pay Mrs A had from work. 
Crucially, it would have  paid out for longer than her full pay. 
Mrs A also told us that she had some  savings that she could have used  to help her to repay 
the mortgage if she was out of work. But I think that with PPI, Mrs A would have been  able to 
use those savings on her other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt  been a 
very stressful time for her if she couldnt work.  Its important for me to say that this mortgage  
was secured on Mrs As home and it was at great  risk if she fell behind  with her repayments. 
I could see that in her initial complaint letter, Mrs A told Santander that she had health cover  
from work.  I asked our adjudicator to make  some further enquiries and Mrs A confirmed that 
this wasnt an additional insurance policy that would have been  similar to the PPI. 
I also thought  about whether Mrs A would  have been affected  by any of the policys 
exclusions about medical conditions. She told us that she did have a medical condition when 
she bought this cover. But she also said that she hadnt taken time off work because  it. I 
dont think shed have  thought shed  have to make a claim in respect of this condition.  And I 
havent seen anything unusual about Mrs As circumstances that would have  stopped her 
from making a successful claim if she needed to. 
Overall, I think this policy probably was suitable  for Mrs As needs. 
Santander still had to give Mrs A enough information  about  the cover  so she could decide for 
herself whether  it was a good fit for her. That information had to be fair, clear  and not 
misleading. In the absence  of a call recording, I accept it is possible that Santander  didnt tell 
Mrs A everything it should have  done  about  the PPI policy.  But Ive set out above  how I think 
the cover  could have  been helpful  for her if she couldnt work. And although  I appreciate Mrs 
As difficult personal circumstances in 2008,  I dont think she was coerced into buying  this 
cover. It follows that I dont think she would have acted differently if shed been  given  more  
or better information  about it. 
For completeness, I can see that Mrs A made  some  submissions about the rules on unfair 
commission. Those rules would only apply to unregulated mortgages.  And I can see from the 
papers that Mrs As mortgage was regulated by the (then) Financial Services  Authority. 
Ref: DRN12942103As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint  Mrs A. But I havent upheld the complaint. I dont 
need to tell Santander to take any further action.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1294210