K821x#15Complaint
Miss H complains that FirstRand Bank Limited  refused  to let her reject  a faulty car.
Background
In January 2018 Miss H acquired a car costing  £9,828 funded  by a hire purchase 
agreement. The car was some four years old and had done  26,232  miles. Within  a couple of 
months Miss H encountered problems with the electronics. Initially, the dealer couldnt  
identify the problem, but it was able to do so in January 2019.
Miss H says she took it back on multiple occasions,  but the dealer only has records of it 
being looked at in May 2018  and apart  from routine servicing it was seen on four occasions  
in February through to May 2019.  The dealer took quite  some time to provide  this 
information and failed to supply any job cards  or details of the work carried  out. Miss H was 
provided with a courtesy car while the car was in for repair.  
Miss H complained to FirstRand  in March 2019  and it said there  was no evidence  that the 
dealer was responsible for any of the problems. She brought  her complaint to this service 
where it was considered  by one of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld.
He noted that in April 2018 as there was an issue with the hill start system and the alarm 
going off intermittently which wasnt resolved. Miss H had said that the car alarm did keep 
going off randomly after that. Having  passed its MOT in January 2019 a few weeks  later the 
car suffered more  electrical  faults. This required the BCM which controls  the cars electric  
systems such  as electric windows, electric  locks and security systems to be replaced.  
Our adjudicator noted that the dealers records suggested that this had been repaired 
previously in October 2018. He noted this repair had failed and the car was taken back a few 
days later.  The car was repaired by a main dealer which involved a new wire harness. This 
last repair  took 10 weeks to complete and Miss H has supplied  photographs of damage  done 
to it during this period.
Our adjudicator concluded that car was not of satisfactory quality which  a reasonable person  
would expect. He also said the BCM failed within 8 days of a new one being  fitted  and the 
car continued have  problems  which indicated  there  were underlying  issues  with it. He 
acknowledged that Miss H had been able to use the car and so he didnt think FirstRand  
should refund any of the back payments. 
FirstRand didnt agree and said that there  was no evidence  there  were  faults  present at the 
point of sale and the car was only brought back to the dealer just short of a year afterwards.  
It also noted Miss H had driven the car for some  12,000 miles in the first year. It noted Miss 
H had accepted the repair which had been  made and this had provided  a resolution to her 
complaint. It suggested she should  have obtained  an independent  report.
Miss H reported yet more  problems with the electrics of the car.
Ref: DRN18862382My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate the arguments put forward by the business, but after due consideration I 
have decided this complaint should be upheld. I will explain  why.
There have been  several electrical faults which have been  repaired on different occasions. I 
am satisfied  from Miss Hs testimony  that she was encountering problems early  on and the 
fact that the dealer says it wasnt able to find the problem doesnt mean it didnt exist. I 
gather Miss H continued to encounter intermittent problems and says she took the car back 
several times, but the dealer appears  not to have  any record of this. 
I cant say that the dealer has displayed much  professionalism in its response  to our 
questions and I am inclined to accept that the car was taken back,  but no record was kept by 
the dealer. It has recorded four occasions  between February and May 2019 when the car 
was in for more work to the electrics. 
It would seem that on least once occasion a repair was effected  which  didnt last and so I 
consider the dealer has had several attempts to find and repair  the fault, but failed to do so. I 
am also concerned  that the car was returned  damaged after the last repair.
Overall I think  it appropriate that Miss H be allowed to reject the car, but she should make a 
fair payment for the use she has had of it. She tells me that she has paid £4,135.01 and has 
only been able to drive the car 16,359 miles. I dont consider she need pay any more.
Ref: DRN18862383My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FirstRand  Bank  Limited to:
Unwind the hire purchase agreement with nothing further for Miss H to pay.
Remove any credit searches recorded by FirstRand.
Collect the car at no cost to Miss H.
Pay £250.00 compensation  to Miss H for the distress and inconvenience she has 
suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1886238