K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) is that when he took out a loan he 
was mis-sold it on the wrong repayment term.
background
In April 2016, Mr J took out two loans with Barclays. This complaint concerns only the earlier  
of those two loans. 
Mr J says he was sold the loan over the phone, where hed specifically discussed  a 
repayment term of two or three years. But that he came  to realise, after paying the loan for a 
good while, that the term was actually five years. 
He said he didnt agree  to this length  of term, and felt the loan was mis-sold to him. He 
wanted to hear the phone call with Barclays from April 2016 when he took the loan. He says 
this wasnt done  online, and that he didnt sign any loan agreement. He also said he didnt 
receive anything  in the mail from Barclays about the loan.
In 2018 Mr J complained  to Barclays, saying as above. Barclays responded, explaining that 
it couldnt find the call recording  from 2016, but that it had proof that he signed  the loan 
agreement electronically.  This agreement  clearly stated the loan term of 60 months, and a 
copy of it had also been sent to Mr Js address on file. Hed been given fourteen days  to 
cancel the loan if he chose to, but Barclays didnt hear from him. 
On this basis, Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. So Mr J brought  it to our service.  He 
explained that he still didnt agree hed signed the loan on the term stated, and also that he 
was in financial difficulties  and had since stopped paying the loan.
Our Investigator  looked  at the evidence, and spoke  with both parties. He concluded that 
Barclays had already dealt with Mr Js complaint fairly, so he couldnt ask it to do any more. 
He also noted  that Mr J had stopped paying  the loan, and alerted him to the potential  
consequences of this. He also pointed him in the direction of some free services who might 
be able to help him with his financial difficulties. 
Mr J still didnt agree. He felt the loan was mis-sold, and wanted  Barclays  to adjust  the loan 
term. So he asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that I cant uphold  this complaint. To 
do so, Id need to have  seen evidence that Barclays made a mistake  that adversely  
impacted on Mr J, or that it treated him unfairly. But I havent seen such  evidence.  
Mr Js recollection  is that the loan was taken out over the phone, for a term of either 24 or 36 
months. But theres unfortunately no evidence to support that. I know  Mr J has tried to obtain  
a copy of the relevant call in April 2016, but by the time he asked  Barclays  for it, it no longer 
held it. Which after two years isnt unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN13236152The evidence we do have  is that the loan agreement, for a term of 60 months, was 
electronically signed by Mr J in April 2016,  before the funds were drawn down. Without a 
signature the money couldnt have been released.  And while the e-signature  doesnt show  
Mr Js name,  Im satisfied with the evidence from Bs systems that he was the only person 
who could have applied  this signature  once  the agreement was sent to him online. To 
explain, an e-signature  doesnt necessarily have  to look like a signed name. Its often  done  
via a mouse click on the signature box. 
Ive also seen the loan agreement itself,  and Im satisfied its clearly for a 60-month term. 
This is what  was sent to Mr J  to his address on Barclays system  which  Ive no reason to 
think isnt correct as its the same  one his statements were sent to, which I know  he 
received. So I have to conclude  that, on balance, he did receive this document. As hes 
already provided  an e-signature, and not cancelled the loan within  fourteen  days, I think its 
fair to accept  that he agreed to the loan. 
After this, we know he continued to pay the loan for some time, and it was only when he 
noticed from his statements  that his balance  wasnt reducing as he expected,  that he made  
further enquiries and found out about the loan term.
Im not saying that I doubt Mr Js recollection  of what happened. But I have to look at all of 
the evidence thats available and decide  what I think is most  likely to have happened.  And 
for the reasons Ive explained, I think Mr J did accept the loan on the 60-month term.
Mr J has since  stopped  repaying his loan, and in this respect I can only echo what  our 
Investigator said - which is that this will have serious consequences for his credit file. Hes in 
a legally binding  agreement to repay the loan, even  if he has an ongoing complaint with this 
service. 
Mr J has also said hes in financial difficulties as family circumstances  have meant he now 
works fewer hours. To this extent,  he should  speak with Barclays  about setting up an 
affordable repayment  plan for the remaining loan balance. And Id expect Barclays to deal 
with him positively and sympathetically in this respect.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr J, but I hope  why Ive explained why I think 
its fair to both parties. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1323615