K821x#15complaint
Ms B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms B took out in 1999.  It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019,  and Ive attached  it to the bottom  of this 
decision. In summary,  I said Ms B had a condition which wouldve meant  she couldnt claim 
on the policy for it and I cant  see Ms B was given clear enough information about  this 
exclusion. 
Ms B responded to say she accepted  my opinion. FICL hasnt responded.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case. 
Having done this, as no one has given  me anything further to consider, I am upholding this 
complaint. 
putting things right
FICL should put Ms B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. FICL should then refund the 
difference between  what  Ms B owed when she closed  her account and what  she would 
have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, if Ms B has already received a refund 
of the commission  part of this PPI policy, then FICL  can take that off the amount it owes 
her, so that it does not refund the same amount twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would  have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
Ref: DRN13857082interest rate should be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Ms B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  Ms Bs complaint.  Financial  Insurance Company Limited  must  pay 
her compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Ms B says she was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. Financial Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep  things simple, 
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
Ref: DRN13857083background
This complaint is about  a store card PPI policy Ms B took out in 1999.  It was added to her account 
when she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. 
Having done this, Im minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But it did have  
to take reasonable steps to make  sure Ms B had enough  information  so she could decide for herself 
whether it was right for her.
The policy excluded claims resulting from a medical  condition the customer knew about or got 
treatment for in the 12 months before the start date. Ms B had such  a medical condition, which she 
had suffered from for a number  of years.
Although Ms B has said the condition was controlled at the time, I think this still wouldve mattered to 
Ms B in the circumstances  of this particular  sale. From what  shes told us, she had suffered in the 
past from serious complications, and she had to take time off work because of her condition.
The condition  may have been  well controlled at the time of the sale,  but part of this particular 
condition meant it could be unpredictable in when it could become  serious again. So I think  it wouldve  
been on her mind.  And I think she wouldve  considered  it to be the most likely  condition to cause her 
to be off sick. But under  this policy, she wouldnt have been able to claim  for time off caused by this  
or for anything that resulted  from it.
I cant  see that Ms B was given clear information  about this exclusion at the sale.  If she had been 
given clear enough information, I think its most likely that she wouldnt have bought the policy. So 
I think  that Ms B has lost out because of the flaws in this particular  sale.
putting things  right
FICL should put Ms B in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
E. FICL should find out how much  Ms B would have owed when she closed her store  card account 
if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. FICL should then refund the difference  between  
what Ms B owed when she closed her account  and what she would have owed if she hadnt had 
PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her. Similarly, if Ms B has already received a refund of the 
commission part of this PPI policy, then FICL can take that off the amount it owes her, so that it 
does not refund the same  amount twice.
Ref: DRN13857084F. FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would have owed when 
she closed her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% simple  a year.
G. If  when  FICL works out what Ms B would have owed each month without  PPI  she paid more 
than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra Ms B paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms B wouldve owed FICL  something 
on her store  card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a year.
H. FICL should tell Ms B what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms B a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN1385708