K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS)  hasnt helped  him to 
recover money he feels hes been charged  unfairly.
background
On the 14 August 2018 Mr D purchased flights on a travel booking website for himself  and 
two family  members. He paid using his JLFS credit  card. 
When Mr D and his family  arrived at the airport on 30 November 2018 to check-in for the 
outbound flight  they found the tickets Mr D had purchased didnt include checked baggage. 
Mr D had to pay extra for this. And hes explained  that the extra cost was higher than it 
wouldve been if hed paid for the baggage in advance.
Mr D says that the email  confirmation he received after booking  the flights didnt say that his 
purchase did not include checked bags.  And that the only information  it gives is that there 
may be a charge, with a link to the airline website which  mentions that transatlantic  flights  
include one bag per passenger. He complained to the travel booking  website  and the airline 
that provided the flights, but without any success.  So in January 2019  he called JLFS and 
asked it to help him recover the additional  money hed had to spend  on baggage. 
JLFS said it would send  Mr D some  forms to fill out. But he didnt receive  anything  and called 
again. At this point  JLFS emailed him the documents, and Mr D opened a dispute about his 
transaction on the 13 February 2019. He says JLFS took over a month  to respond,  and he 
received a letter on 20 March 2019  effectively giving him 3 days to send it more details. He 
feels it provided poor service, and says it hasnt been able to resolve the issue for him. To 
put things right he wants to be refunded the £106.38 he spent on checked baggage.
JLFS said there was no recourse available for Mr Ds transaction  under the rules and 
regulations set out by MasterCard (the third party card scheme). It said there  are no 
chargeback rights for an authorised transaction, and that Mr Ds booking confirmation  
indicated that the airline  may charge for checked  baggage.  However it did later apply 2,500 
loyalty points (equivalent to £25) to his account to acknowledge the difficulties hed 
experienced raising the dispute.
Mr D wasnt happy with this response  so he complained to our service about JLFS  actions.  
Our investigator looked at what had happened  and felt JLFS had correctly  declined Mr Ds 
chargeback claim. He agreed there had been a delay  in it issuing the dispute forms to him, 
but felt its offer of 2,500 loyalty points  was fair and reasonable to put things right and didnt 
ask it to do anything  more.
Mr D didnt accept this view, so the case  has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mr D feels very strongly about 
this matter. So I know hell be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.  
Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN11984322The chargeback rules are set by the third party card scheme  in this case MasterCard. Any 
chargeback requests have to be considered on the basis of these rules, and not the merits of 
the dispute between Mr D and the merchant(s). So the fact Mr D is unhappy with the sale of 
his purchase and has suggested the travel booking website entered  into an illegal  contract 
doesnt in itself mean JLFS shouldve taken further steps to help him recover his money. 
A chargeback can be raised where goods  or services are not as described as Mr D argues  
here. The chargeback  process consists of the bank raising a claim with the merchant  who 
is given the opportunity to provide evidence to defend the chargeback.  I appreciate Mr D 
thought his flight tickets included  checked  baggage. But I cant see his booking confirmation 
states this. Nor have  I seen any other  evidence to suggest Mr D was explicitly told this was 
the case before making the booking.
Ive thought about whether it would  be reasonable to conclude  it was implied that checked  
baggage was included. But looking at the booking confirmation Mr D received I can see that 
under Additional Information it states  that the airline may charge additional fees for 
checked baggage or other optional  services. So I think it was clear that it may cost extra for 
checked baggage to be taken on the flight.
Mr D says he checked the airlines website and this showed that tickets  included one item of 
checked baggage. However our investigator  noted the website says that not all ticket options 
include baggage.  And I can see it refers to General included check-in baggage allowance, 
and another section of the same  webpage  advises that passengers should view their 
baggage allowance by logging in on the website.  
Mr D says it wasnt clear  which ticket  option hed booked, and has suggested the wording on 
this website has changed since he purchased his flights. I accept I cant  be certain as to 
exactly what wording he would have  seen. But where information  is incomplete or not 
available, I have to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. And I do think its likely the airlines website would 
have stated that he could access specific details about his booking  which  would have shown 
his baggage allowance. I say this because there  are numerous references  on the website to 
checking exact baggage  allowances  (and other details) on My Trip. I can also see that the 
Manage My Flight section of the travel  booking website directs customers  to the same area 
of the airlines  website  to view baggage  allowances.
I appreciate Mr D has described conversations he had with the airline about his booking,  and 
has made reference to regulations covering consumer contracts. And I can understand why 
hes disappointed  that neither the airline nor the travel  booking  company has refunded  the 
money he asked for. But, for the reasons  Ive outlined  above, I havent seen evidence to 
suggest any chargeback attempt  wouldve been  successful within the rules of the scheme. 
So I dont  think JLFS  acted unfairly when it told Mr D it couldnt assist  him any further with 
this matter.
I note there  was a delay  in JLFS sending out dispute  forms to Mr D when he raised  this 
issue. And I appreciate  it mustve been  frustrating for him to have to contact it again to chase 
these up. And hes unhappy about the short timeframe he had to respond to JLFS request 
for further  information  by the time its letter reached him. But I agree the gesture JLFS has 
made to credit 2,500 loyalty points to his account is sufficient to resolve this point.
Ref: DRN11984323my final decision
I do not require  John Lewis Financial Services Limited to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1198432