K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) recorded a 
default on her account without giving her notice.
background
Miss G entered into a loan with Sunny. She told Sunny about her change  of address but 
following this a default notice was sent to her old address.  So she says she didnt receive the 
correct notice. She says that had she received the default notice  she would have acted to 
prevent a default applied. Miss G wants the default  removed.
Sunny says Miss G contacted it in October 2017 and provided a new address. It says that it 
told Miss G about the process for updating her address.  It says that in February 2018, after 
the default had been issued, Miss G attempted to update her address again but the address 
wasnt updated as she didnt provide the documents required.  
In regard to the default it says that Miss Gs scheduled payment was declined on 
24 November 2017. It says an email was sent saying that payment hadnt been received and 
as Miss G had failed to maintain her payment  plan it had the right to resume  its usual  
collections process. It also sent a notice  of default to the address it had on file. It says there 
was no further  correspondence until after the default was issued. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He noted that Miss G had accepted  £25 as a 
gesture of goodwill from Sunny in regard to the assistance provided when she changed her 
address. He didnt  think that Sunny was required to remove the default from Miss Gs credit 
file. He said Sunny emailed Miss G four days after her scheduled payment had been 
declined saying collections  process would be resumed. 
Miss G didnt  accept our adjudicators view. She said an email had been sent to her about 
failing to maintain  her repayment plan and asked why the default notice wasnt also sent by 
email. She also said that the reason given for not changing her address was because a 
utility bill hadnt been provided  but that she had only been in her new accommodation for a 
short time and so this wouldnt  have been  available. She said the £25 compensation didnt 
relate to her issue with the default.  
Miss G said that had her address been  updated  and the default notice sent to her new 
address or had it been sent by email she would have acted to avoid the default being  
recorded. She said that the regulations note that the account needs to have three  months of 
arrears before a default is applied. 
Following the view, Miss G said that her address still hadnt  been updated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that when  Miss G raised her complaint with Sunny she noted other  issues as well 
as the default  that had been applied to her account.  However her complaint to this service  is 
about the default and this decision relates  to this issue.
Ref: DRN10333852Miss G was in a repayment plan when she missed a scheduled repayment in November 
2017. I note her comments about the amount of arrears on an account before a default  is 
issued. In this case  Miss G was in arrears as she hadnt maintained her scheduled 
repayments. Her account was being  managed through  a repayment plan and so, when 
Miss G missed  her scheduled  payment under the plan, I dont find it unreasonable that she 
was told that usual collections could be resumed.
A default notice was issued which I find reasonable given  the situation  on her account.  
Miss G says that because  the default  notice  was sent to her previous address she didnt 
receive it and that had she received  it she would  have take action to avoid the default. I 
understand Miss Gs comments  but I also note she was sent information in October  2017  
about how to update  her address and, as I understand it, this action wasnt taken. On 
balance, I dont find I can say that Sunny did anything wrong by sending  the default notice to 
the address it had on file. 
Also Miss G was sent an email about  the missed payment which asked her to get in contact. 
I have nothing to show that Miss G made  contact at this time. As Miss G would have been 
aware of the need to make her payments I think it would  have  been  reasonable for her to 
have contacted Sunny to discuss this issue. Sunny gave her the opportunity to do this and 
had this happened the issue of a default could  have been discussed. 
I find that Sunny did give Miss G  reasonable notice of what  would happen if payments 
werent made and as a payment was missed I dont  find I can say it did anything wrong by 
taking the action it did.
Sunny said it could have done more to help Miss G in regard to the address  change and 
offered £25 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. I note the comments Miss G has made  
about what this payment  was for but the final response letter set out the reason for the 
compensation and I find this reasonable.  
Overall, while  I understand why Miss G is upset that a default has been applied to her 
account, I do not find that I can say this has been  unfairly applied.  Therefore I do not require 
this to be removed.
Miss G also noted in July 2019 that her address was still incorrect  on her credit  file. If this is 
still the case she should raise this with Sunny.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1033385