K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc was unfair and inflexible when it refused to 
extend the term of their interest only mortgage. They ask that it compensates them for lost 
income on the investments they had to sell to repay the mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out an interest  only mortgage  with HSBC in 2008. The mortgage  was due 
to expire in September 2018 with a balance of about £292,000.
Mr and Mrs M decided  to move overseas. They put their property up for sale in March  2017. 
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs M contacted HSBC. They hadnt received any offers  for the 
property and wanted to refinance  or extend the mortgage term for two years.  They said this 
would give them time to sell the property. 
Mr and Mrs M asked  HSBC to extend the term to allow  them time to sell the house.  HSBC 
declined. Mr and Mrs M say they had to sell investments, including taking money from tax 
efficient investments and a pension, and repatriate money  theyd sent overseas. This meant 
they lost the income these investments would have generated,  and which would have  been  
tax free for four years in the country they moved to. They say HSBC  should compensate 
them for this. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. HSBC had said Mr and Mrs M could apply for a 
new mortgage, with a minimum five year term, but Mr and Mrs M didnt want to do this. She 
said Mr and Mrs M werent in financial difficulty and were able to repay  the mortgage. When 
they asked HSBC for an extension their property had been up for sale for 15 months and 
HSBC was concerned  that it might not sell during an extension. It wasnt  unfair for HSBC to 
decline the request  for an extension.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. They said the Mortgage Conduct of Business Rules  (MCOB) 
required HSBC to give consideration  to people in payment difficulties.  They said having  to 
sell long term investments was imprudent and costly, when compared to the sensible 
strategy of selling the property. And using  cash from a pension was against HSBCs own 
policy for repayment of interest only mortgages.
Mr and Mrs M said there was no risk that theyd be unable to sell the property. And it isnt 
reasonable for a bank to inflict costs on a customer to no advantage to itself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
When Mr and Mrs M borrowed the money from HSBC they agreed to repay  it at the end of 
the mortgage term, in September 2018. So when they asked for an extension,  they were  
asking HSBC to change the terms of their agreement.
Ref: DRN13582532The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments  of both affordability  and, for interest only mortgages, repayment 
strategy, before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
However, there are two exceptions to this requirement. Where  an existing mortgage is to be 
varied and theres  no change to its terms likely to be material  to affordability,  an affordability  
assessment isnt required. And, if that rule doesnt  apply  (for example, because there is a 
material change), theres still no need  to carry out an affordability assessment provided  the 
loan balance  hasnt  increased since 2014 and the proposed  change  is otherwise in the 
borrowers best interests. Similar provisions apply to the assessment of a repayment 
strategy for an interest  only mortgage.
But these  rules dont  oblige  lenders  to make changes to mortgages.  They merely say that 
changes dont have  to be refused  if the criteria  are met  on grounds of affordability  or 
interest only repayment strategy. Changes can still fairly be refused on other  grounds   
though lenders are always subject to the requirement to act fairly, taking into account their 
customers best interests. Separately, the regulators guidance on interest  only mortgages 
requires lenders to keep  in touch with borrowers  and discuss  how the mortgage  is to be 
repaid, exploring  options to do so.
HSBC discussed  options with Mr and Mrs M, such as re-mortgaging.  There  were difficulties 
with this, including that HSBCs minimum term is five years  and Mr and Mrs M wanted to 
repay sooner than that.
Mr and Mrs M asked  HSBC for a two year term extension instead. HSBC didnt agree to this. 
It noted that Mr and Mrs M had funds  available to repay the mortgage; they just preferred not 
to use the funds for this.
I can see why Mr and Mrs M wanted  to extend the mortgage term. Theyd sent about 
£500,000 overseas to support their visa application. They didnt want to withdraw money 
from their remaining investments which provided tax free income. And they say this wasnt 
necessary as they fully expected to be able to repay the mortgage from the sale of the 
property within the proposed two years extension. But while  this arrangement  might have 
worked for Mr and Mrs M, HSBC  wasnt obliged to agree to it. 
In effect, Mr and Mrs M were asking HSBC to wait for the money it lent to be repaid because  
they preferred  to use the money for something  else. 
Mr and Mrs M knew the mortgage would have to be repaid when they decided to send about 
£500,000 overseas. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M might well have expected  to sell their 
house before September 2018, but they decided to take a risk that this wouldnt happen when 
they sent a substantial amount of money  overseas. This meant  they found themselves facing 
the possibility  of having to sell long term investments that theyd have preferred to keep and 
take money out of a pension. But I think this was a risk theyd decided  to take and not 
something that was forced on them by HSBC or an unexpected change in their circumstances. 
I think it was reasonable  for HSBC to ask for the mortgage to be repaid when the term 
expired, given that Mr and Mrs M had sufficient funds to repay  it. 
Mr M refers to the obligations  of lenders towards borrowers in payment difficulties. But I dont 
think Mr and Mrs M were  in payment difficulties in the sense intended in the regulations. 
They had enough money to repay the mortgage without encountering difficulties in meeting 
Ref: DRN13582533their other commitments or living expenses. They  simply  would have preferred to use the 
money for another  purpose.
Mr M says HSBCs own criteria dont allow pensions to be used as a repayment strategy for 
an interest only mortgage. But hes referring to the criteria HSBC applies when deciding  
whether to offer or vary a loan. Here, it was merely asking that an existing  loan be repaid 
when it was due.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358253