K820x#14Complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of his contents insurance claim.
Background
Mr A has a contents insurance policy which is administered  by H. Ageas is an underwriter 
of this policy, and is responsible for the decisions in relation to this case. As such, whilst 
Mr A initially  dealt with H, this complaint has been set up against Ageas and for the sake  of 
simplicity I will just refer to Ageas from this point  on. 
Mr A contacted Ageas in February 2019 and notified them of a claim. He said that, a couple  
of days earlier, he was at his UK address  and that he had dropped his laptop  causing it 
damage. Mr A is a US national, but has been  studying and living  in the UK. 
Although Ageas told Mr A that the laptop  would need to be inspected,  he had it repaired. 
Mr A has said that he uses the laptop  for work, so could not wait. Mr A was also in the US at 
this point, and the repairs  were  carried  out there. 
Ageas asked Mr A to provide further details of the circumstances of the incident and for 
evidence that it occurred in the UK. Mr A was able to provide some additional information, 
but Ageas  remained unsatisfied  that he had demonstrated the insured event occurred in the 
UK. And they said that they were unable to meet  the claim without this being established.
After about six months, and having  seemingly reached an impasse, Mr A referred  a 
complaint about  this situation to this service. Ageas issued their final response to the 
complaint shortly afterwards. They maintained that without confirmation that Mr A dropped  
his laptop whilst in the UK they were  unable to progress the claim. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that the evidence available  showed that Mr A was in the 
UK at the time of the incident. And that as a result Ageas  hadnt  acted inappropriately  by 
asking questions around this or by not progressing the claim.  Mr A remained unsatisfied  and 
his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This issue has arisen because of the terms of Mr As policy.  The policy  he took out included  
the optional extra of accidental damage, and this would cover damage  to his laptop.  But it 
would also be limited  to an insured event that took place within Mr As home. 
I am satisfied Mr As home is in the UK. He has been studying here, and had signed a rental 
agreement a few months  before the incident. So if he accidentally dropped his laptop  in his 
home, it would  be appropriate for Ageas to meet a claim relating to this (subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy). 
However, there is persuasive  evidence that Mr A was in the US when he notified Ageas of 
the claim.  And the laptop  was repaired in the US. Mr A doesnt actually dispute  either  of 
these points. He says he travelled to the US shortly  after the incident and notified Ageas of 
the claim as soon as he could. 
Ref: DRN14216892I dont think it is unreasonable for Mr A to have notified Ageas a couple of days  after the 
incident. This delay  and Mr As decision to have the damage repaired,  meant  Ageas wasnt  
able to inspect  it. But at this point Ageas havent  raised any concerns around whether the 
damage occurred. The issue is where the damage occurred. 
I appreciate Mr A may regularly travel between  the UK and the US. So it is not unfeasible 
that Mr A dropped  his laptop in the UK and then travelled to the US. If this can be shown  to 
be the case, I think it would be appropriate  for Ageas to progress this claim. 
But, like the investigator, I do not consider Ageas  has acted unfairly  or unreasonably by 
saying it is not persuaded by the evidence provided.  Mr A has provided a plane  ticket for a 
trip he made  to the US in April 2019.  However, he has not provided any evidence of a 
departure from the UK to the US at the end of February 2019. He has said that this is when 
he travelled, and I would expect  him to be able to evidence this reasonably easily.  
Mr A has indicated  that the issue may relate to his deployment in the US military. This may 
mean that he is unable  to provide his own flight ticket,  but I would anticipate  he would be 
able to provide  some  other form of evidence that would reasonably  persuade Ageas. 
In the absence of this, I consider Ageas has acted fairly by when concluding Mr A has not 
demonstrated an insured event took place. I think it was reasonable for Ageas to request 
further evidence  and to not progress Mr As claim when this was not provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1421689