K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the charges applied  by The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) to a 
business banking  account (BBA). Mr B is also unhappy with the way it dealt with his 
instructions to change  the standing order for this account. 
background
Mr B is one of several trustees to a BBA with RBS. 
RBS has provided a history of standing order payments from the BBA.  The statement shows 
standing order payments from February  2009, until the last standing order  was cancelled in 
August 2018.  All standing order payments have been to Mr Bs personal account, and Mr B 
has explained this standing order relates  to his pension payment.  
The standing order statement shows payments were being  made  for £3,779.29 from 
February 2009 until December 2012.  From March 2013, standing  order  payments were 
reduced to £1,696.55. From November 2013,  payments increased to £2,035.85. 
In 2016 RBS changed its charging structure  for the BBA. Mr B complained about this. RBS 
responded to this complaint on 2 August 2016 telling Mr B that the change  had been  made  
in line with the terms and conditions for the account.  RBS provided Mr B with referral  rights 
for this service if he was unhappy with its response, explaining any referral must be made  
within six months.
Mr B wrote to RBS in January 2017  saying that he would  like to change  the standing  order 
payments from £2,035.85  to £1,955.00 and if for any reason a payment was not made into 
the [BBA] then no transfer transaction should follow to [Mr Bs account]. 
In January 2018 a banking charge was applied to the BBA. In February 2018 Mr B wrote to 
RBS to complain about charge applied. RBS responded on 8 February  saying the charge 
had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account, and so it wouldnt  be 
offering a refund. RBS also provided  Mr B with referral rights for this service if he was 
unhappy with its response,  saying any referral must be made within  six months. Additional 
charges were then applied on a monthly  basis from January- November 2018. 
On 14 May 2018 Mr B wrote to RBS asking to decrease the standing  order  payments from 
£1,955 to £1,865. On 23 May Mr B wrote to RBS asking the same. The next standing order 
amount debited from the BBA account on 2 July 2018 was £1,865.
In August  2018  RBS wrote to Mr B saying that the standing order to Mr Bs account could 
not be paid, and an unpaid charge would be applied because this. Mr B contacted this 
service on 16 August 2018  to complain about charges being  applied to the BBA account. 
On 17 August Mr B asked  RBS to cancel the standing order being paid into his account. But 
a further payment for £1,865 was made from the BBA account  on 3 September. 
On 12 September  Mr B contacted  RBS to complain about its failure  to cancel his standing 
order when requested. RBS recognised that it couldve  handled things  better. RBS offered 
Mr B £50 in recognition of this on 28 September. 
Ref: DRN19189722The investigator reviewed  the case and found that the complaint  about charges applied to 
the account isnt something we can look at as Mr B hadnt referred this complaint to us on 
time. The investigator found that the £50 offered by RBS for the issues  Mr B had with his 
standing order was fair, and didnt recommend any further compensation. 
Mr B was unhappy with this response and asked  for an ombudsman  to make  a decision on 
his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
complaint about  bank  charges
Before the ombudsman service investigates a complaint, we need to make  sure the 
complaint is one which we can look at. 
In this case I dont think  we can look at Mr Bs complaint about  the charges applied  to the 
BBA. The reason for this is because our rules say that the ombudsman service cannot  
consider a complaint which is referred more  than six months after the date of a businesss 
final response unless  this was as a result of exceptional circumstances.  
RBS response letter  dated 8 February  2018 made  it clear  to Mr B that he would need to 
refer his complaint  to the ombudsman service  within six months of the date of the letter. Mr B 
didnt contact this service until 16 August 2018. So I cant say it was referred  on time. 
Mr B has not provided the ombudsman service with any evidence to suggest  that there are 
exceptional circumstances  as to why the complaint was referred to us late. I think its 
reasonable for me to conclude that there havent been any exceptional  circumstances that 
prevented Mr B from contacting the ombudsman  service  sooner. 
For the reasons  provided, Mr Bs complaint about the charges applied to the BBA isnt one 
we can look at. 
complaint about  standing  order  set-up
Ive seen that in 2017  and 2018 Mr B sent several handwritten letters  to RBS about changing 
instructions for the standing order set up for the BBA. From looking at the evidence,  it looks  
like it was Mr Bs intention  that although  a standing order would  be in place, no payment 
would be made  out of the BBA if there wasnt enough money available in the account. 
Although Mr B wanted this arrangement in place to prevent  bank charges, it doesnt  look like 
RBS was able to offer this. 
Normally a standing order is in place  so that a payment can be made on regular  basis  at the 
same time and for the same amount every month.  I wouldve expected  RBS to have told 
Mr B that it couldnt change the standing order payment depending on how much  money  
was in the BBA. I cant see that it did this.
Ive seen that Mr Bs other letters to change the standing order amount,  were actioned as Id 
expect. However it does look like another payment was taken in September  2018 when Mr B 
Ref: DRN19189723cancelled the standing order in August. Its likely that the timing of Mr Bs instruction to 
cancel the standing order (17 August) was the reason for this. 
Ive seen that in response to Mr Bs complaint about the way his standing order instructions 
had been handled, RBS offered Mr B £50 compensation. I think  the £50 offered recognises 
that RBS couldve  done more to acknowledge and respond to Mr Bs handwritten letters, but 
ultimately its for account holders  to manage the BBA, and ensure enough money is 
available to cover  pre-agreed payments,  such as a standing order. 
RBS also advised  Mr B to use its own standard templates to make  any standing order 
requests/ changes in future.  I think  this is fair, as it would help to avoid any confusion about 
the BBA, and changes RBS can make to the account. 
RBS couldve done more to respond  to Mr Bs letters  and explain how a standing  order  
works, and what Mr B should  do in future to make changes. This didnt happen  until after 
Mr B complained, at which point  hed already cancelled  the standing  order. I think  the £50 
compensation recognises RBS couldve handled  things better, but also that the other 
instructions to make changes were done in accordance with Mr Bs request. So I wont be 
recommending any further compensation for this complaint.   
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont have the power to consider Mr Bs complaint about the 
bank charges. And I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about his standing  order  requests in 2017 
and 2018. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1918972