K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1996. Mr F says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr F says that he didnt know about  the PPI, and that it wasnt optional. But I think 
Barclays made it clear that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this as it was so long ago. Mr F 
took out his credit card through the post  and Barclays has provided a copy  of his 
application. On this I can see that the PPI is presented as optional,  and has been 
selected with a tick. Mr F has then signed the application, agreeing  to the information  on 
it.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F so it didnt  have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr F got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mr F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
Ref: DRN17942982But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1794298