K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc, rejected his loan applications  unfairly because it 
wouldnt take into account his personal pension fund as part of its affordability process.
background
In November 2018, Mr B applied  for a loan on the Lloyds banking  app and was given  an 
acceptance in principle decision (AIP). He decided not to proceed with this application but it 
was still held as pending on the Lloyds  online  system.  Instead  Mr B applied  for an increase 
to his mortgage via the banks app. But his application terminated and he received an online 
message directing him to visit a Lloyds branch to complete the application process.
Mr B visited  a Lloyds branch a few days later. The Lloyds adviser told him the mortgage 
application couldnt progress online as he (Mr B) was retired so he needed a full 
affordability assessment.  Following the assessment, Mr Bs mortgage application was 
rejected. This was based on his income  which wasnt enough  to cover his outgoings if the 
loan was agreed. He was then advised  to apply for a personal  loan to secure the money as 
hed already received an AIP online. But again this was rejected because Lloyds couldn't  
see that Mr B was able to afford the repayments  based on his income  and outgoings.
Mr B complained to Lloyds. He said it was unfair the loans hed applied  for were rejected on 
the basis of his income alone. He feels Lloyds should take account of his pension pot.  And 
by not doing so it was in breach of its regulatory duties and was being  discriminatory.  Mr B 
also complained  about some  of the communication  issues  he experienced during the 
application process. And he was concerned about the negative impact the loan applications 
may have  on his credit file.
In response Lloyds said its decision was based  on its lending  criteria. It said this bases 
affordability on income and doesn't take into account  savings including pension funds. So in 
Mr Bs case, as his income wasnt enough  to cover the loan repayments if itd been  agreed,  
his application  was rejected.
Lloyds confirmed that no negative information  should show  on Mr Bs credit file as a result  of 
his loan applications. And it apologised  for some  of the communication issues  hed 
experienced. Whilst Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint, it paid him £100 for the delay in 
replying to him. Mr B remained  unhappy so he brought  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld because he was satisfied Lloyds 
had followed  its lending  criteria in assessing Mr Bs applications. And that it had acted in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations by taking into account Mr Bs income as part of its 
affordability criteria. Our investigator acknowledged  there were some  communication issues 
but overall he considered Lloyds had acted  fairly  in Mr Bs case.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view.  So the matter has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN19496242Before I explain my reasoning, I understand Mr B has raised  a number of points during his 
contact with this service and Lloyds.  Although  I may not mention every  point hes raised, Ive 
considered everything  Mr B has said but limited my findings to the areas which  impact on the 
outcome of the case.
the lending decision
In summary,  Mr B considers the decision not to lend to him is unfair  because  Lloyds wont  
take into account his considerable pension fund as part of the affordability assessment. He 
believes this is unlawful discrimination by reason of his age and retirement status.
I should say at this stage,  its not within my remit to consider cases  of potentially unlawful 
discrimination. That is the role of the courts. In considering complaints, I look at whether the 
financial business behaviour and decisions have been fair and reasonable, and in line with 
the relevant codes of practice. Its on this basis that Ill consider Mr Bs complaint.
All financial organisations are free to determine  their own lending criteria, which are likely to 
reflect amongst  other things, their attitude to risk and their organisational priorities. It follows  
that Lloyds isnt under any obligation  to lend money;  nor is there  any right that a customer is 
entitled to borrow  additional funds. But if a request  is made for a loan, Lloyds should give the 
application fair consideration, within the terms of its own criteria.
When applying for the loans  I can see that Mr B provided details  of his income to 
demonstrate these were  affordable for him. He also provided the details of his assets which 
were of significant value.  But I can see when he attended the branch the adviser, amongst 
other things,  checked  Mr Bs bank account as part of the assessment. And this showed that 
Mr Bs monthly income wouldnt  be enough  to meet his monthly outgoings  if the loan had 
been granted. So based on these checks,  the loan didnt look affordable.
As noted above,  Mr B considers Lloyds shouldve taken into account  his pension fund. I 
know he feels very strongly about  this. But Ive reviewed Lloyds lending criteria and its clear  
that its decision to lend is based  on the customers ability to repay using their income. As far 
as I'm aware, at the time of his applications Mr B hadnt confirmed he intended to draw down 
on his pension fund as a source  of income.  So as it made its decision in line with its lending 
criteria, I consider Lloyds  acted fairly  in Mr Bs case.
Mr B says Lloyds is in breach of duties as set out by its regulator (the Financial Conduct  
Authority) in its handbook.  In particular Mr B draws  attention to CONC 5.2A paragraph 12. 
Essentially this part sets out what financial firms  need to consider when assessing a 
customers creditworthiness. But as explained  to Mr B by our investigator,  Lloyds  has taken 
into account at least one of the options open to it  this is all it is required to do. As Lloyds 
have demonstrated  that its considered Mr Bs income when  assessing  his creditworthiness,  
Im satisfied it has followed  its regulators  guidance.
 
Mr B refers  to other regulatory duties imposed by the regulator. In essence this is the duty 
for Lloyds  to treat its customers fairly. As a dispute  resolution service, I cant direct Lloyds on 
what lending  criteria it should  have  but as Ive noted I can decide,  taking into account its 
regulatory obligations, whether its acted fairly. And for the reasons set out above, I havent  
seen anything that persuades me that Lloyds has treated Mr B unfairly, either  generally or in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations.
Ref: DRN19496243other complaint points
Mr B raised several other complaint points  for completeness Ill address these now.
In terms of his credit  file report, Lloyds have confirmed it wouldve carried out a search of 
Mr Bs credit  file following each of his applications. And that there is no adverse information 
recorded as part of these applications. From what I can see, Mr B seems to have been 
reassured by this explanation.
Mr B said he was confused by the way his online  personal loan application was still recorded 
as pending when  it was no longer progressing. I note Lloyds acknowledges this message 
may cause  confusion and that it was designed  to help customers who were intending to re-
apply. Lloyds has offered  to feed this back to its relevant team  dealing  with online 
applications and has apologised to Mr B for any upset this may have caused.  So I dont think  
it needs to do anything further  on this point.
I note Mr B is also unhappy he was only told when he visited the branch that his online 
application for an increase in his mortgage  couldnt proceed due to him being retired. His 
status prompted the online system to direct  Mr B to go into branch so that a full affordability 
assessment could be made. I appreciate  the reasons why he needed to visit the branch 
werent explained until he was there. But overall, I think Lloyds request was fair as it needed 
to assess what income  he had. And he was ultimately provided with a full explanation when 
he attended branch  as to why it needed to be done  this way.
 
So having  considered everything, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by the 
outcome, for the reasons outlined above,  Im unable to conclude  that Lloyds has acted 
unreasonably or treated him unfairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1949624