K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that Metro Bank PLC has recorded adverse information about her to 
CIFAS, one of the UKs  fraud alert services.
background 
Miss B is unhappy that Metro Bank has put a CIFAS  marker  against her name because 
there was an attempt to pay fraudulent funds in excess  of £7,000 into her account. Miss B 
says she knows nothing  about the payment or who was trying to pay it into her account. She 
wants Metro Bank to remove the marker.
Our investigator didnt  think that Metro Bank had enough proof to show that Miss B was a 
knowing party to a fraud and thought it should remove  the marker. 
After our investigators involvement Metro Bank agreed to remove the CIFAS marker and to 
pay £300 compensation. Miss B didnt think this was enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank  has accepted  that it hadnt enough proof to be able to reasonably  load a CIFAS 
marker against Miss Bs name. It has agreed to remove  it. It has also offered to pay £300 as 
compensation for the difficulties Miss B had because of this, including  the withdrawal of her 
credit card facility.
Miss B didnt think this was enough for the stress and upset the marker had caused her. She 
said that her credit score was adversely affected, she had to borrow from relatives and 
friends because her credit card account  was closed and she suffered a serious health 
problem because of the stress she was under.
I accept this has been distressing and caused  inconvenience  for Miss B. In complaints of this 
type, the role of this service is to ensure  that a customer affected by any mistakes by a 
financial institution is put back into the position they would have been in had those errors not 
been made. 
credit score
I can see that Miss Bs credit score was in the poor  category before the CIFAS  marker was 
placed against her name. Whilst I accept that it did have  some negative impact,  her credit  
score still remained in the poor category.  So I dont  consider the marker had a significant 
impact on Miss Bs credit  score.
credit card
Miss B says that within a few days of Metro Bank  placing  the CIFAS marker against  her 
name, her credit card provider withdrew  her credit card facility.  Miss B did regularly use her 
card so I can see that this would  have caused her some  problems.  She says that she is now 
paying back the balance at £100  but because  of the interest she isnt reducing  the amount 
she owes fast enough.
Ref: DRN10547872I have looked  at her credit  card account and the interest rate her card provider is charging is 
the same  as it was before  the marker was placed.  Whether or not Miss B was using the card 
she would  always have  been required to pay interest. So I cant see that she has any 
financial loss because  of this.
I appreciate that having to borrow from friends and family may have been  inconvenient for 
her. But, again,  I cant see that she suffered any financial loss because of this.
health issues
Miss B blames the stress  she was under because of Metro  Bank  placing a CIFAS marker 
against her for the problems she had with her health in December 2018. I fully understand 
Miss Bs strength of feeling  about this and that this must  have been  a worry for her. But 
having given everything very careful  consideration I cant  safely  conclude  that it was caused 
solely by the actions Metro Bank took.
 
I find that the offer that Metro Bank  has now made, following our involvement,  is reasonable. 
Its not for me to fine or punish the bank, and we dont make  awards  based on the number of 
mistakes a financial business makes. I decide whats fair based on the impact of what  
happened on Miss B and the amount of time needed to resolve this. I think  the amount  of 
£300 is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in the sense that I require Metro Bank PLC to:
1.Remove the adverse information it has recorded against Miss B from CIFAS, 
if it hasnt already done so.
2. Pay Miss B £300 compensation for the upset and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1054787