K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Evergreen Finance London Limited  (trading as MoneyBoat)  irresponsibly lent to 
him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  MoneyBoat provided to Mr T between April 
2018 and November 2018.  Mr T borrowed  amounts ranging between  £200  and £400 to be 
repaid in four or six monthly instalments. He borrowed  continuously for seven months. From 
what I can see, an amount remains outstanding for loan three. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ts complaint in part and thought loans two and three shouldnt 
have been given. MoneyBoat disagreed  and so the complaint  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish  
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN19594272Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
MoneyBoat asked Mr T for information  about  his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr T said his monthly income was between  £1,725  and £1,975. After his 
stated expenditure  was deducted, he was left with between £400 and £625 disposable 
income each month. 
For loan one, given  the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ts circumstances  at the 
time and his history  with MoneyBoat, I dont  think it wouldve been proportionate  to ask him 
for the amount of information needed  to show the lending was unsustainable. There  wasnt 
anything in the information Mr T provided  or the information MoneyBoat  shouldve  been 
aware of, which  meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start verifying what Mr T was 
saying. So I cant say it was wrong  to provide  loan one. 
But, as our adjudicator  explained, a proportionate check for loan two would most likely have 
shown that Mr T was having  problems managing his money:
Mr T had a significant number of short  term loans outstanding with other lenders when 
he asked for loan two.
His overall level of indebtedness had increased since loan one.
So I think MoneyBoat  should have realised  that Mr T would be unable  to sustainably repay 
loan two, or any subsequent loans. So Im upholding the complaint about loans two and 
three and I think MoneyBoat should put things right.
putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  two and three and waive any still 
owing; offset this refund against  the principal still owing for loan three and pay Mr T the 
remainder, or if an amount remains outstanding, set up an affordable repayment  plan to 
clear the balance;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans two and three from Mr Ts credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN19594273my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ts complaint. I 
require Evergreen  Finance  London Limited  (trading as MoneyBoat)  to pay Mr T 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1959427