K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) because it wasnt  clear 
with them,  when they moved  home, about what they needed to do to ensure  cover for their 
new home was in place.
background
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs J called UKI to advise they were moving. They  said they 
expected the sale to complete at the end of November.  A plan for 30 days  cover was put in 
place but Mr and Mrs J were told theyd have to call back once the sale completed.  In a 
second call UKIs advisor spoke mostly  about  contents cover,  confirming Mr and Mrs J would 
have to call it once  the purchase completed  to make  sure they were  fully covered at their 
new home.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs J received post from their old property showing UKIs cover for it 
had renewed. They  contacted UKI as they were unsure what this meant for the new house. It 
transpired that as Mr and Mrs J hadnt called  it back on completion of the purchase, the 
cover for their new home had never been fully implemented. UKI accepted it had a part to 
play in this, refunded  costs for the old property and paid £25 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs J complained  to us. They said they wanted £100  £150 compensation. Our 
investigator felt that UKIs offer of £25 was fair and reasonable.  Mr and Mrs J asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr and Mrs J to realise that cover hadnt  been in place for 
them as they thought  it was. But Im not persuaded that was entirely due to any failure by 
UKI. And beyond some frustration and a degree of worry about  what  might have happened  
but didnt whilst there was no cover  in place, I havent seen that Mr and Mrs J were caused  
upset, inconvenience  or loss due to the new policy not having been put in place. If 
Mr and Mrs J had complained to us because UKI hadnt offered any compensation, I likely 
wouldnt have been minded to make it pay any.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1186756