K822xcomplaint
Mr U complains the interest rate for his American  Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) 
credit card increased without notification  and that its too high.  
Mr U also complains that when he called to talk to Amex  about his interest rate he wasnt  
given a clear answer about when the increase  took place. 
Mr U has explained that hes recently had trouble maintaining  his payments due to ill health 
and complains that Amex  wouldnt amend his direct  debit  collection date or put his account 
on hold. 
Mr U has also said that Amex has refused to refund  unauthorised  and duplicate  charges on 
his account. 
background 
Mr U has held an Amex credit  card for several  years. In August 2015  Amex increased the 
interest rate applicable from 19.9% to 22.95%. Amex says it wrote to card holders to let them 
know about the increase but its been  unable to provide  a copy of its letter.  
In October  2018 Mr U contacted Amex and asked  about his interest rate but says he wasnt 
given a clear answer as to when the increase  had taken  place.  Mr U has explained  that at 
this time hed been experiencing  ill health which had affected  his income. Hes advised that 
during a call with Amex  he asked to amend his direct debit collection date so he could  
continue to investigate  his interest  rate but his request was declined.  Mr Us next payment 
was returned unpaid and the direct debit instruction was subsequently  cancelled with his 
bank. 
Mr U complained and Amex responded in November 2018 but didnt agree itd made an 
error. Amex said that whilst it didnt have  a copy of the letter  it sent in 2015,  the credit  card 
terms allow for the interest rate to be increased. And it said that Mr U has taken too long to 
ask it to investigate  duplicate or unauthorised  debits  on his account so didnt agree to refund 
them. 
Mr U referred  his complaint to this service and an investigator  looked  at what had happened. 
They thought Amex couldve dealt with Mr Us query about his interest rate better and that it 
shouldve retained  a copy of its increase letter from 2015. They  recommended Amex pay 
Mr U £100 for the trouble and upset  caused. But they didnt think Amex had unfairly 
increased the interest rate and thought, on balance, that it had written  to Mr U before itd 
taken that step.  
The investigator agreed that Mr U had raised his concerns  about  duplicate or unauthorised 
transactions too late so didnt ask Amex  to take any further action. They  also recommended  
Mr U discuss his circumstances with Amexs  financial difficulties team if he continued to 
have difficulties maintaining his payments. 
Amex agreed to pay Mr U £100  to resolve  his complaint. Mr U responded  to say he felt 
Amex should have a record of the letter it sent him in 2015  and didnt  accept the 
investigators recommendations. As a result, the complaints been passed to me to make  a 
decision. 
Ref: DRN19236172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As there are several issues involved here 
Ill look at each in turn. 
I think its fair to say that the main  issue Mr U has raised relates  to whether Amex notified 
him of its intention to increase the interest rate in 2015. I appreciate Amex doesnt have a 
specific record of the letter  it sent.  But Im not persuaded that the absence of the letter 
means it wasnt sent. Ill explain why. 
Amex has said it wrote to all its customers with the same card as Mr U to explain it intended 
to increase the interest rate in 2015. A step its entitled to take under the account terms as 
long as it gives sixty days notice. And I think its likely it did take that step. I note that Mr Us 
statements were updated to show the new interest rate in 2015 as well. Where information is 
unclear or incomplete I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.  That is, 
what I consider most likely to have  happened  in light of the available evidence. 
In this case, I think its more likely than not that Amex did write to Mr U to let him know the 
interest for his credit card was due to go up in 2015. I say this because Amex  has supplied  a 
general copy of the letter  it sent customers at the time. I appreciate  its not the specific  letter 
it sent Mr U but Im satisfied Amex  did write  to customers about the interest  rate increase at 
this time and that wouldve  included Mr U.
Ive looked carefully  at the account  terms and I can see they allow Amex to increase the 
interest rate on Mr Us account.  Im satisfied Amex  wrote to Mr U before taking that step and 
that interests been correctly applied to his account.  So Im not telling  Amex  to refund interest 
to Mr U. 
Like the investigator, I agree Amex  shouldve been able to answer Mr Us questions  about 
his interest rate quicker and that there was some confusion. Im pleased Amex  agreed to pay 
£100 as I think  thats  a fair way to deal with the service  Mr U received. 
Mr U raised concerns about  transactions on his account going  back  several years and asked 
Amex to refund them. But Amex has explained  that Mr U didnt meet  the 120 day time limit 
for chargebacks so wasnt able to assist. Chargeback time limits are clear  and whilst  I 
appreciate Mr U was on a sabbatical and has experienced ill health,  I can see hes been in 
contact with Amex during  the period hes raised. So I think he couldve raised the 
transactions with Amex  at the time if he was concerned. 
Ive not found  Amex  made a mistake  by refusing to refund the charges Mr U has now raised. 
In line with the investigators comments, Amex should ensure charges that fall within  the 120 
day time limit are investigated and respond to Mr U accordingly. If he remains unhappy with 
the response Mr U has the option to complain at that time.
I understand Mr Us experienced ill health and I have  sympathy  for his situation. But we cant 
force Amex  to suspend  interest and charges on an account or put collections activity on 
hold. And Amex has explained  that direct debit  dates arent flexible and are linked to the 
date a statement  is produced. While I appreciate Mr U asked for his direct debit date to be 
amended by Amex,  it wasnt obliged to agree at short notice. Mr U was able to cancel the 
Ref: DRN19236173instruction with his bank.  I know the missed payments  are reflected on Mr Us credit file now 
but Im not persuaded thats been  caused  by not amending the direct debit date. From what 
Ive seen, Mr U wasnt  able to maintain his payments which is why they werent met. 
Amex has offered to put Mr U in touch with its financial  difficulties team to discuss  the 
arrears on his account and his situation going  forward. Id encourage Mr U to engage with 
Amex to discuss his options if he remains in financial difficulties. Without taking the step of 
discussing what assistance can be offered with Amex Im unable  to agree its treated Mr U 
unfairly. 
Ive not found  that Amex unfairly increased  Mr Us interest rate in 2015 so Im not asking it to 
refund the additional interest  Mr U paid. Ive also not found  Amex acted unfairly by refusing 
to complete a chargeback on charges and transactions  Mr U raised outside the time limits. I 
agree that the service Amex provided  shouldve been better but Im satisfied the £100 its 
agreed to pay fairly reflects the impact on Mr U.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and direct 
American Express Services Europe Limited  to pay Mr U £100. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject  my decision 
before 10 February  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1923617