K822xcomplaint 
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out by Mrs B in 2000.  
It has been agreed that AXA France  IARD (AXA) will take responsibility for the sale and this 
complaint. 
background 
I attach my provisional decision of 16 January 2020, which forms part of this final decision.  In 
it I set out the background to and circumstances of this complaint and explained  why 
I thought the PPI had been mis-sold. But I asked Mrs B and AXA to send me any more 
information or comments they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Mrs B has said, through her representatives,  that she has nothing  further  to add. AXA has 
told us that it accepts the conclusions in the provisional decision and is in contact with the 
lender to calculate the compensation payable.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, with no new information  to review and for the reasons already set out in 
my provisional decision, on balance Im upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN16239832putting things right
Mrs B borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so her credit  was more than it shouldve  been and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So she needs  to get back  the extra  she paid. 
So AXA should:
-Work  out and pay Mrs B the difference between what  she paid each month on the 
account and what  she wouldve paid each month without  PPI.
-Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs B paid each month,  from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year. 
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, AXA can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes  her.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs B that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress  shown above.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  AXA France IARD must  pay Mrs B the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16239833copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out by Mrs B in 2000.  
I understand its been agreed in this case that AXA France  IARD (AXA) will take responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint. So to keep things simple  Ill refer just to AXA in this decision,  although AXA 
didnt actually  sell the PPI. 
background
The PPI was sold to Mrs B alongside credit she was given when she bought some furniture. Mrs B 
has complained about how the PPI was sold. Among other  things, she says the policys terms werent 
properly explained and she feels her employee  benefits and job security meant it was highly unlikely 
shed ever need it.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but Mrs B disagrees.  So its come to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive provisionally decided that the PPI policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The sale took place many years ago and I havent been given much information about how it 
happened. But Ive seen the credit agreement that Mrs B signed and I think  its likely that she 
completed this, and so bought the PPI, while in a shop.
I dont know what, if any discussions Mrs B had with staff in the store  before she signed the 
agreement. But looking at the agreement I see it included a box which could  be signed if a customer  
wanted PPI. Mrs B signed in that box. So I think she agreed  to have  the PPI.
Mrs B doesnt  think AXA recommended the PPI to her personally. Thats probably  right. As far as Im 
aware she didnt discuss PPI with the staff in the shop. And this meant AXA didnt have to find out 
about her circumstances, to check that the policy  would  meet her needs. She had to decide that for 
herself.
But AXA did still have  to give Mrs B good enough information about the cost, benefits  and main 
features of the PPI, before  she agreed to buy it, so she could decide  if it was right for her. And Im 
proposing to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think  AXA did that.
The policy provided  her, among other things, with benefits to cover her repayments if she was off 
work owing to illness or injury, or lost her job. But the agreement told Mrs B very little about  the PPI. It 
said in the terms and conditions on the back that she acknowledged  having received, before signing 
it, details of the credit  insurance and the limitations  applicable  to it. But its not clear  what, if any 
information she actually got about the PPI  whether  during discussions or in writing - or when. And 
the cost of the PPI wasnt set out in the agreement, which just said it would be included in the monthly 
instalments she had to pay for the credit. 
So Ive not been shown that Mrs B was made sufficiently aware of, or wouldve properly  understood,  
the PPIs cost or the benefits  it offered.  And I think this wouldve mattered to her because  of the 
particular job that shes told us she had then, as was also noted  in the credit agreement. That job, 
which shed had for 10 years, not only gave her good sick pay but also was one which  she could only 
Ref: DRN16239834lose in extremely limited circumstances. I think she wouldve thought  it highly unlikely that this would 
happen. So to my mind  she wouldnt have felt she had a real need for PPI, especially the 
unemployment cover.
Overall, I dont think AXA gave  Mrs B clear or full enough information about  the PPI. And in her 
specific circumstances I dont think Mrs B wouldve wanted the policy, or thought it provided value  for 
money for her, if shed been given better details of it. I think shes  lost out because of what  AXA did 
wrong. So on balance  I think its fair and reasonable to uphold her complaint.  And I dont need to deal 
with the other issues Mrs B has raised about the sale. 
what AXA will need  to do
Mrs B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her credit  was more than it shouldve been and she paid 
more than she shouldve each month. So she needs to get back  the extra she paid. 
I propose to tell AXA to:
 Work out and pay Mrs B the difference between what she paid each  month  on the 
account and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs B paid each month, from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mrs B made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes her.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs B that relates to this PPI sale, that 
sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires  AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must  give Mrs B a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off, if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive read and been told up to now, Im intending to uphold this complaint and to tell 
AXA France IARD to pay the compensation  Ive set out above.
I invite Mrs B and AXA to send me, by the date Ive said,  any more information or comments theyd 
like me to consider before  I give my final decision.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1623983