K821x#15complaint
Mr Q complains about a purchase  he made using a finance agreement from 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited.
background
In January 2018, Mr Q bought a corner sofa and took out a Fixed  Sum Loan Agreement  from 
Creation to pay for it. The loan agreement totalled £820  to be repaid by 34 monthly 
payments of £24.11. He says he had concerns  whether  the corner  sofa would fit because  of 
the angle of the corner  of the room, so he says the store asked him to provide dimensions 
and photos of the room to make sure it would fit. Mr Q says the sales person assured him 
the sofa would fit and was adjustable.  When it was delivered in May 2018, it didnt fit and 
wasnt adjustable. He tried to return it to the store and was told he couldnt do so unless he 
accepted a 20% reduction. He tells us hes not used the sofa and has kept it in storage.
Mr Q complained first to the store but didnt receive a response. After contacting us, he 
complained to Creation who issued a final response. They  said it was Mr Qs responsibility to 
ensure the item would fit in the room. They said he had been offered a reselection with a 
20% charge to change the goods  and they felt that was reasonable.
Mr Q didnt agree and referred to his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked  into it. 
She said that under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75), Mr Q could 
claim against Creation  about any misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods. She was 
satisfied that Mr Q had provided  dimensions  and photographs of the room as requested  by 
the sales representative and had been assured the sofa was adjustable and would fit. She 
felt Mr Q relied on that information when entering  into the contract.  As the sofa didnt fit and 
wasnt adjustable, she felt it had been  misrepresented to Mr Q.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Qs complaint and said that Creation should:
Collect the sofa at no cost to Mr Q.
Cancel the Fixed Sum Loan agreement.
Refund all payments hed made plus 8% interest. 
Mr Q accepted her recommendation, but Creation didnt. They asked for the specifications 
(by which our investigator thought they meant  the dimensions of the room)  Mr Q had given 
the retailer and asked how they were  given  verbally or via email.  Our investigator 
confirmed they were given verbally  but that she believed photographs were  taken at the time 
and shown to the sales representative. 
Creation then explained that the retailer  doesnt make bespoke  furniture so their items  
would be made  to a set size and wouldnt be adjustable. They  said the acceptance  of the 
goods is based on the customer  taking  measurements of their own property,  comparing  it to 
the size of the goods. They said they couldnt  see that the retailer had made any errors as 
they rely on the customers  to provide the correct  details. 
Our investigator said that she was persuaded by Mr Qs statements  that hed provided 
photographs of the room  as he was concerned about how the sofa would fit. She thought 
hed been assured it would. She didnt  think it was unreasonable for him to have relied  on 
what the sales representative had told him. Her recommendation didnt change. 
Ref: DRN16818632Creation again  didnt  agree and said (in summary):
The retailer has a process  they follow if a customer tells them there  may be issues 
with the delivery  or installation and they make notes  of the concerns. They say the 
retailer has no such notes, so this suggests no issues were raised. 
No goods  of this nature supplied by the retailer are adjustable.
As the measurements  were given verbally, Creation says theres  nothing  to 
demonstrate they were  accurate. They say its equally reasonable to conclude  that 
the retailer provided goods that would fit based  on the measurements given by Mr Q. 
As there was no agreement, Mr Qs complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods. Im satisfied the required circumstances for Mr G to make a claim are 
present here. 
My role isnt to decide whether  Mr Q has a valid claim under section 75, as that is for a court  
to decide. Instead,  Im required  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. In doing so, Ive taken  account of what the law says, including section 75. 
Weve asked each  party to this case to supply  further evidence to help resolve  this dispute, 
but some  of what wed normally expect to see in complaints of this nature hasnt been 
provided. Ive therefore reached my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is what 
I think is most likely  to have happened  in the circumstances.   
Mr Q says he was assured the sofa would fit and was adjustable.  For a claim under a 
misrepresentation to succeed, the consumer  must  have been  given  false  information and 
that information must have induced them into accepting a contract they wouldnt have 
accepted if theyd been given the correct information. 
Mr Q has provided  me with photos he says were shown to the sales representative. From  
the date stamps  of the photos, Im satisfied  they were taken at the time, so I think on 
balance, theyre likely to be those shown at the time of the sale.  
The photos  show a tight corner with an angle of much less than 90 degrees;  indeed, Mr Q 
has set up a right angle in some of the photos  to help to show how tight the corner is. Given 
that the corner sofa delivered has a 90-degree  angle, its clear that the sofa wouldnt fit 
neatly into the corner as one would normally expect.  
I understand the points raised  by Creation  about the retailers  processes and its products 
generally not being adjustable. I note too that it says the measurements  were given verbally, 
so may have  been inaccurate. But the absence of notes doesnt automatically  mean  that a 
discussion didnt take place; it simply shows that no notes were  made.  And I accept that the 
measurements (length  and width of the room) could potentially have been given 
inaccurately. But its not the size of the sofa thats the issue in this case; its the shape of it 
that makes it unsuitable for the room.  In that respect, I find that the photos of the corner  of 
Ref: DRN16818633the room in which the sofa was expected to fit, are persuasive and clear  that the angle 
wouldnt be suitable for a sofa with a 90-degree  corner.
I think its unlikely that Mr Q would have bought the sofa with a 90-degree angle for this room 
unless he was told it could be adjusted.  Therefore, I feel on balance  its more likely than not 
that there  was a misrepresentation of the products  bought by Mr Q, and that he was induced  
into entering the contract based on that misrepresentation. Hes not had use of the sofa as it 
doesnt fit in his room and hes kept it in storage since  delivery. For this reason, I think its 
fair and reasonable for Creation to cancel the finance agreement,  collect  the sofa and refund 
any payments Mr Q has made. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Qs complaint about Creation  Consumer  Finance  Ltd 
and they should:
       Collect the sofa at no cost to Mr Q.
       Cancel  the Fixed  Sum Loan agreement.
       Refund all payments  hes made   including  his deposit - plus 8% interest from the 
date of the payment to the date its refunded. If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
consider they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from 
the interest, they should tell Mr Q how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so that he can reclaim  the tax if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1681863