K820x#14complaint
Mr W, on behalf of the executors of the estate  of the late Mr V, complains  that 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has acted improperly in relation to a lifetime  mortgage 
Mr V took out with it. In particular, Mr W says that Aviva  has charged excessive interest on 
the mortgage. And he says that Aviva  has been  unable to explain how the interest is 
calculated. He wants Aviva to write off the outstanding  balance  of the mortgage.
background
Mr V took out an index-linked lifetime mortgage with Aviva in April 2005.  The total amount 
borrowed was around £172,000.
Mr V died in July 2017. At the time of his death the amount of the loan had increased  to over 
£435,000.
In March 2018 the executors made a part-payment of around £400,000.This left an 
outstanding balance at that time of around  £66,000. 
Mr W complained  to Aviva on behalf  of Mr Vs estate. He said the executors couldnt accept 
the amount of interest  charged on the loan since  inception. And he said that the initial advice 
given to Mr V was immoral and didnt  constitute  best advice or treating customers  fairly. In 
addition, he hadnt  received a clear explanation of how the interest  had been  calculated. He 
asked Aviva to conduct a full investigation  into the initial advice given and waive  the 
outstanding balance on the loan.
Aviva didnt uphold  Mr Ws complaint. It said, in summary:
It couldnt agree to write off the remaining balance of Mr Vs lifetime mortgage;
It was sorry  that Mr W was unhappy  with its previous attempts to explain how interest  
was calculated on the mortgage.  As the mortgage had interest applied in line with RPI 
the calculations  were more complex  than if only standard interest was applied.  Interest 
was calculated in two stages, involving a fixed and variable rate. Firstly,  interest was 
charged on the total loan amount at the minimum rate (4.89%). Secondly, the loan plus 
minimum interest was increased  in line with the movement of inflation over the previous 
year, between 0% and 5%. 
Mr V took independent legal advice when taking out the policy.  It received a completed 
SHIP certificate with the completed  application. By sending this, the legal advisers  were  
confirming that they had brought the essential  features and implications of the plan to 
Mr Vs attention. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Avivas  response, and brought  his complaint to this service. He 
explained that he was unable to sell the property until certain problems with the title were 
resolved. And he said that, since it was more than 12 months since  Mr V had passed away, 
Aviva had placed the mortgage in default. 
Our adjudicator felt that Aviva had dealt with the complaint fairly. He said, in summary:
Aviva  hadnt recommended the borrowing, the assessment of the suitability of the 
product had been carried out by a third party intermediary.
Ref: DRN16427922As a lifetime mortgage, no payments are made  throughout the term of the loan but 
interest was still applied;
The way interest  is applied is complicated,  as it incorporates an element based on the 
retail prices index. But ultimately, it could  be looked  at as a variable  rate mortgage where 
the interest rate is never  lower  than 4.89% or higher  than 10.14%.
He was satisfied  that the way the loan worked and how interest was applied  was 
explained by Aviva and should  have been explained by the broker before the agreement 
was signed. 
As he didnt think Aviva had done  anything wrong, he wasnt able to ask it to reduce the 
balance owed, or freeze the interest  being applied.
He understood  that Aviva had agreed  to allow the executors time to sell the property as 
long as they continued to show evidence that they were  actively  working towards this. 
Mr W had explained  this might take a few months due to the legal issues that were being  
resolved. The adjudicator  felt that Aviva  was behaving reasonably  given that the date full 
repayment was due had passed.
Mr W didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He said that the adjudicator hadnt taken into 
account the current unsaleable state of the property.  He felt that the adjudicator could have 
asked Aviva to consider  a freeze of the interest  applied since  Mr Vs death.
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his view. He said that Mr V had borrowed the 
money and had had the benefit  of it. The fact that the property was currently  unsaleable 
didnt alter this. And, unless the lender determines  otherwise,  the costs of settling the loan 
would need to come from the estate.
As agreement has not been reached  Mr W has asked for his complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that Aviva  has not acted unreasonably. I fully appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr W, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive seen copies  of the documents  produced  when  the mortgage was first taken out. These 
indicate that Mr V was advised by a third party. So Im not persuaded that Aviva is 
responsible for advising Mr V to take out the mortgage or its suitability for him.
Under the terms of the mortgage, interest  is not payable  during the term of the mortgage but 
is added  to the balance to be paid back after the borrowers death, or if they leave the home 
because they need long term care. 
I appreciate that Mr W finds that the way the interest  is calculated  to be complicated. But, as 
our adjudicator has explained, the mortgage is essentially a variable rate mortgage.
Mr W is unhappy at the way interest has accrued,  and continues to accrue. But, under the 
terms of the mortgage,  interest will continue  to accrue until the mortgage is repaid. And, 
although I appreciate that Mr W has experienced difficulties in selling the property due to 
issues with the title, Im not persuaded that this is Avivas responsibility. As the adjudicator 
explained, it is usual  for the costs of selling  the property to be met from the estate.
Ref: DRN16427923As I dont find that Aviva has made  an error, I dont require it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
the late Mr V to accept  or reject my decision before 12 May 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1642792