K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Western  Provident  Association Limited.  (WPA)
background
Mr D holds two separate  medical policies, arranged by his broker.  These  didnt work the way 
he wanted and he complained, about both policies and the broker.  The broker case  was 
settled and I have  dealt with the other  policy in a different decision. This decision concerns 
solely the WPA policy. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ds dispute here, but they considered that an amount 
offered by WPA (some  £5,000 plus) was sufficient compensation for any failing on their part. 
Mr D didnt agree, having issues  with the amount offered, the understanding  of WPA about 
dual insurance,  and the timing of payments. The case  has therefore been  passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be making any additional award, Ill explain why. 
Mr D should at the same time he receives  this decision receive the decision I have done on 
his other  case against the other  insurer. As mentioned in that I cant  look at the brokers  
involvement here in any detail, as Mr D has accepted a resolution to that matter. 
Unfortunately though  for Mr D I do think the origins  of his problems lie with the initial 
arrangement of these  policies,  and the mechanisms by which  they were supposed to work,  
and whether they worked that way. 
I dont think I can blame  WPA, or the other insurer for the major issues here. And as I cant  
look at what the broker did I cannot  take the case against them  any further.  They may or 
may not have been at fault. 
Id also say, as in the other case, were I to find in Mr Ds favour the redress would most 
probably be a refund  of premiums minus  claims paid. This would leave Mr D in a negative  
position due to the claims paid and offers made,  so such a decision  wouldnt help Mr D. 
So, whilst there are obviously issues with Mr Ds medical insurance arrangements I dont 
think any major faults are down to WPA. And I think the excess waiving offer made by them 
is enough. 
Ref: DRN18548112my final decision
I make  no award against Western  Provident  Association Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1854811