K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc is holding him liable for two debit  card payments he 
says he neither made nor authorised.  
background
Mr T was on a trip to Malta. While there he visited a night club by himself. He made  a 
number of credit card payments and, he says,  one debit  card payment of £44. Within  the 
following hour, however,  two further payments totalling more  than £2,000  were  taken  and 
debited to his account. 
When he returned to his accommodation Mr T received a text message from HSBC, alerting  
him to the activity  on his account. He said he didnt recognise the larger two transactions on 
his account; he still had his card with him.   
HSBC looked  into what had happened. It said that there had been some payments  
attempted on Mr Ts credit card which had been  blocked, along with those which  had been 
made and which were genuine. But it said too that the disputed  payments on Mr Ts debit 
card had been made using the genuine  card and PIN; it didnt believe someone else had 
been able to make the payments without Mr Ts knowledge and so wouldnt refund the 
transactions. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied  with the banks response and referred the case  to this service, where 
one of our investigators  considered it. Whilst he acknowledged the possibility that someone 
had been able to take Mr Ts card, use it and return it to him without  his knowledge, he 
thought it more likely that Mr T had carried out the transactions himself. He didnt 
recommend that HSBC  refund the payments. 
Mr T didnt  accept the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review the case.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons.
Ill comment first of all on the use of Mr Ts credit  card. It was used to make some  payments 
that Mr T hasnt disputed.  It was also used for payments which  HSBC  blocked. However, the 
fact they were blocked does not mean that Mr T wasnt  trying to use the card;  it means only 
that something about the transactions triggered  an alert. 
I turn now to the debit card payments. HSBC says that its systems indicate that the genuine 
card was used with its PIN, and I accept thats  the case. The banks records show that the 
chip embedded in the card was read on each occasion. Thats  a clear indication that the 
genuine card  rather than a copy  or clone  was used. If a copy  had been used, I would 
expect the records  to show that the magnetic stripe had been read, not the chip. 
That means, therefore, that whoever  carried out the disputed transactions  had the genuine 
card and knew Mr Ts PIN. And, because Mr T still had his card later the same day, it also 
means that if someone else carried them  out, that person was able to return the card to Mr T 
without arousing  any suspicion. 
Ref: DRN17959342Both the bank and the investigator acknowledged  the possibility that a staff member could 
have observed Mr Ts PIN (when  he made the £44 payment) and then taken his card from 
him, used  it and returned it. It was early in the morning, and Mr T may have been  distracted. 
But I share their view that the most  likely explanation here is that Mr T carried  out the 
transactions himself.  
I note that the two payments were  some 30 minutes  apart. Its unlikely in my view that 
someone acting dishonestly would have waited  that long between taking the payments; its 
equally unlikely that they would have  kept the card for that long or that they would have 
taken it on two separate occasions, 30 minutes  apart. I note as well that one of the payments  
was for the same amount  as an earlier credit card payment, taken for the use of a VIP room  
at the club. 
Mr T has pointed out that a payment  was declined after the disputed  transactions;  he says 
he wasnt responsible  for that card use either. In my view, however, its unlikely that 
someone using  the card dishonestly and without Mr Ts authority would have then returned it 
to him after a payment had been  declined. Again, I think the more  likely explanation is that 
Mr T attempted  to use his card but overlooked  that fact. 
Ive no reason to think Mr T isnt being honest here.  Its quite possible that he simply didnt 
realise how much he was paying.  But I believe  he did authorise  the payments from his 
account. It follows that I cant fairly require HSBC to refund them.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further steps  to 
resolve Mr Ts complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required 
to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1795934