K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Experian Limited failed  to send him the PIN for his ProtectMyID  
account. 
background
Mr W was sent a promotional code for Experians  ProtectMyID service by a flight  operator  
following a data breach. He signed up for membership  on 12 September  2018 and was told 
hed receive a welcome letter which  would  include the PIN which  hed need to access his 
account. 
Mr W got in touch with Experian on 20 September 2018 to let it know  he hadnt  yet received 
his PIN, and therefore  hadnt been able to access his account.  He was told the PIN should 
be with him the following day, but he could call back if that didnt happen. Mr W waited a 
week and called back on 27 September 2018  as he still hadnt  received anything.  Experian  
said it discovered a technical  issue which had resulted  in a number of PINs  not being  
generated. It agreed to send another PIN, which it said would arrive in the next three to five 
working days. 
Mr W called  a third time on 5 October  2018. He was told that a PIN had been  sent the 
previous day, and it should arrive early the following  week. Mr W asked why it hadnt  been 
sent following  his previous call. He explained that his data was at risk which is why he 
signed up for membership. Experian  then took Mr W through some additional security 
questions and gave  him his PIN during the call. He was able to access  his account later that 
day. 
Mr W complained  that Experians technical problems meant he wasnt  able to access  his 
account for three  weeks. Experian apologised and initially offered Mr W £15 compensation. 
It reassured Mr W that it had been  monitoring the account since  the day he signed up, and 
he wouldve been  notified in the event of any changes. Mr W said Experian  should pay him 
£15 for each time he had to call and chase his PIN, so £45 in total as he made  three calls. 
Experian said it would increase its offer by £10 but Mr W declined this. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She accepted Mr W shouldve had access to his 
account within a few days of signing up for membership. She also acknowledged  
Mr W wouldve  had concerns about  his data during the three  weeks he was left without 
access to his account. But she said Mr Ws data wasnt compromised, and Experian 
wouldve let him know  if it had been.  So although  she thought Experian could have provided 
better service, it had already acknowledged  this and she therefore thought it had done 
enough to put things  right. Mr W didnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision. So the complaint has been  passed to me. 
Mr W says even though  the investigator agreed  Experian could  have handled the issue  
better, she still thinks the compensation  offered is fair. He feels hes not being treated fairly  
as hes had to spend unnecessary time in calling Experian. He believes compensation of 
£45 would be a fairer resolution.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN12552112Experian accepts  that Mr W shouldve received his PIN within a few days of signing up to his 
ProtectMyID membership.  But because of its system issues, which  were out of Mr Ws 
control, it meant he had to wait three weeks. I understand  he has now received his PIN. So I 
need to decide whether Experians offer of compensation is a fair reflection  of the impact 
these delays had on Mr W.  
Mr W wants to be compensated for the additional  time he spent calling Experian. The PIN 
didnt arrive as Experian said it would. So, as well as the available evidence, Ive also 
listened to the telephone calls provided to decide  whether theres  anything  else which would 
lead me to conclude  Experian ought  to offer more  compensation.  I note during  each  call, 
Experian provided assurance  to Mr W that a PIN was on its way to him and also explained 
how long it would take to reach him. But these  assurances werent met. It wasnt  until the 
third call that an adviser took a pragmatic approach and went  through additional security 
which allowed her to share the PIN with Mr W there and then. And while  I appreciate this 
was a sensible way forward  and it did resolve the issue, I can also see this caused further 
frustration for Mr W because he couldnt  see why this action wasnt taken in the first call he 
had with Experian. 
In all, the delay caused  in receiving the PIN was three weeks.  While  I appreciate  Mr W would 
like £45 rather than the £25 Experian  offered, I dont agree. This is because Experian has 
now resolved the issue even  though, I accept,  it took longer than it should have. Experian 
has also apologised for the delays Mr W experienced, and reassured him that it was 
monitoring his credit file from the outset.  Its said it wouldve got in touch with him if there 
was any cause for concern. And its offered  a total of £25 in compensation  for any avoidable 
distress and inconvenience that it caused  him. Having  reviewed  all the available  evidence, 
Im satisfied that £25 is a fair amount of compensation  in the circumstances of this case. I 
note Mr W has already  been paid £15 but he rejected the additional £10 Experian offered. 
Its now up to him to decide if he wishes to accept this and to therefore contact Experian. 
Overall, I can see Mr W feels he should be compensated  £15 for each call he had to make. 
But the approach of this service isnt to give a set award for each individual  error thats 
happened. Its our role to look at everything  that happened, take a step back and assess  
what amount of compensation would be fair overall. Taking all of the above factors into 
account, I think the amount Experian has already offered  to Mr W is proportionate to the 
impact of its errors. So I wont be asking it to pay anything  further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Experian Limited. 
Experian Limited has made an offer to pay £25. I conclude that such  an offer is fair 
compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that Experian Limited should pay Mr W 
£25  if it hasnt  already  done so  within  28 days of receiving notice of his acceptance  of 
this decision.
Mr W should note that if he accepts my decision,  it will be legally binding on all parties and 
he probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between him and Experian Limited as to whether the remaining 
£10 offer still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking,  an offer is not binding  on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been  communicated.
Ref: DRN12552113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1255211