K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC lent irresponsibly when  it approved a loan for 
£25000.
background
Mrs H said shed banked with Barclays all of her adult life. But she felt she was in a cycle  of 
financial hardship due to bank charges and fees. Mrs H said shed asked Barclays for help 
but itd just suggested adding her debt to her mortgage.
Mrs H said Barclays  approved a loan of £25000.  But she couldnt afford the repayments  and 
the bank should never  have lent her the money. The loan was granted  through  her mobile 
app without any questions  being asked. So Mrs H would like a refund  of the excessive 
interest on her loan. 
Barclays said it was sorry about  the position  Mrs H found herself  in. Itd looked at her 
application for a loan.  And her income and expenditure suggested it was affordable at the 
time. Mrs H had used the loan to repay  other debts. And the bank said itd previously 
provided support  to help Mrs H manage  her finances. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response. So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She reviewed  what checks  Barclays did when Mrs H 
made the application. And she looked  at Mrs H credit file and statements from the same time 
period. And she didnt  think  there  was anything  to suggest Mrs H wouldnt have been  able to 
afford the loan. She was managing her accounts  well and keeping up to date with her 
regular payments. So she didnt think Barclays had done anything  wrong  in agreeing  the 
loan. Mrs H didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H feels Barclays  lent irresponsibly  to her. And its caused a cycle  of debts that shes  
struggled to escape  from. So Ive looked very carefully at everything  Mrs H and Barclays  
have said.
Mrs H used her mobile banking app to apply for a loan of £25000 in November 2016. The 
loan was for a ten-year  period at 9.8%  APR.  She said it was pre-approved and she felt under 
pressure to deal with her finances. No one asked her any questions. And Mrs H feels  
Barclays shouldnt have  lent her the money. 
I cant see anything to suggest Mrs H had indicated she was in any financial difficulties when 
she applied  for the loan.  And although she had a number of other loans she appeared to be 
managing her finances. 
From what  Ive seen Mrs Hs credit file doesnt suggest she was in any difficulty. She hadnt 
missed any payments on her other accounts.  And she used the Barclays loan to pay off 
other loans   consolidating some  of her debts.
Ref: DRN16793402Mrs H says she was able to gain access to the loan at the click of a button.  But Barclays 
confirmed itd carried out checks to make  sure the loan was affordable. Barclays  said it 
wouldve looked at various criteria including income  and credit scores to determine how 
much to lend and for how long. And it hadnt been  informed of any change in Mrs Hs 
circumstances. 
I understand Mrs H has now consolidated  the loan with her mortgage. And I can see 
Barclays has provided details for a number of banking services  to help Mrs H. And its given 
information about other organisations that may be able to help if she still feels  she is in 
financial difficulty. 
Based on what Ive seen  I think the bank carried out appropriate  checks to determine  if the 
loan was affordable.  And there  was nothing to indicate Mrs H wouldnt be able to meet the 
monthly repayments at the time. I know  Mrs H will be disappointed with this outcome. But I 
cant see anything to suggest Barclays has done  anything wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1679340