K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Santander  UK Plc delayed processing a credit into her account. As a 
result a property purchase fell through and caused great  stress.
background
Ms Ss husband sent a CHAPS  payment  from his account (with another bank)  to Ms Ss 
Santander account on 22 December 2017. Once received, Ms S intended to transfer the 
funds to her husbands  overseas account  to enable him to buy an overseas property. But the 
money wasnt credited  to her account  until 9 January 2018.
When the money was eventually  credited  to her account, Ms S then found her account was 
blocked and it was difficult to unblock  it as she was out of the country.  Ms S was unable to 
send the money  overseas until mid-January 2018. But by then she says it was too late and 
the purchase of the overseas property fell through.
Ms S wants to know  why the transfer was delayed and compensation for her trouble and 
upset.
Santander issued  its final response in mid-April 2018. It didnt uphold  her complaint. It 
explained that itd received the money  on 22 December 2017  but the payment was subject  to 
regulatory checks before it could release  the money  to her account. Santander explained 
that all banks are required  to adhere  to legal and regulatory requirements to process  
payments  and this may require them to carry out additional checks. Santander wasnt able 
to tell her when the payment would  be processed. It paid £75 compensation for the trouble 
and upset it had caused.
Ms S isnt happy  with Santanders response.  She says that due to Santanders actions the 
purchase of an overseas  property fell through. She also says she and her husband have lost 
all their savings, her husband now has large debts and they have nowhere to live. She says 
its also taken a toll on their marriage.  She doesnt  think the £75 compensation paid by 
Santander fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused.
When our adjudicator looked  into matters she didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. The terms and conditions  of Ms Ss account allow  for payments to be stopped  for 
security purposes.  And Santander  doesnt  need to disclose the reason for this if the law 
prevents it from doing so. So she didnt  think Santander had done anything  wrong when it 
delayed crediting the funds to her account whilst it completed checks. And she didnt think it 
would be fair to hold Santander responsible  for the loss of the property purchase abroad or 
subsequent losses.
Ms S disagrees so shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has provided a very detailed account of events  for our consideration, for which  I thank 
her. But in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service Ive not repeated 
the detail here.
Ref: DRN14451272I appreciate it must have  been distressing for Ms S when the money  didnt arrive  in her 
account as she was expecting  especially as she was intending  to transfer  the monies out 
again to her husbands account to enable the purchase of an overseas property.
Although Ms S feels very strongly that shes been  treated unfairly  by Santander  Im afraid Ill 
have to disappoint her, as I agree with the adjudicator and for largely the same  reasons.
Like all financial  businesses, Santander has to comply with a great many legal and 
regulatory requirements in relation to security, anti-money laundering, fraud and other  
matters. These are to protect the financial businesses  themselves and their customers. So it 
must have  systems in place to do this. I appreciate  this is very difficult when it means money 
cant be credited to an account or when a block is applied  so customers  are unable to 
access their money. But this doesnt  mean  Santander has done the wrong  thing.
Santander confirmed  in its final response letter that it received the funds on 
22 December 2017 but the payment was subject to regulatory checks  before being released 
to Ms Ss account on 9 January 2018. So I think it acted fairly when it wasnt able to credit 
the funds whilst it completed its checks.  It follows that as Im of the opinion  that Santander 
hasnt done anything wrong  then it wouldnt be fair to hold Santander liable for the loss of the 
overseas property purchase or for other  losses.
Ms S referred us to Santanders website which says that CHAPS transfers will normally  be 
credited in two hours for international  payments  and 90 minutes for CHAPS payments 
subject to standard bank checks and to other regulatory guidance. I appreciate the transfer 
into Ms Ss account took significantly longer but for the reasons Ive already explained I dont  
think this means Santander  did anything wrong.
I can see that Santander has apologised for the trouble and upset caused by the delay in 
dealing with Ms S queries. I agree thats  poor service on the part of Santander. Taking  into 
account all the circumstances I think the £75 compensation paid by Santander is fair. I 
realise this is likely to be a huge disappointment to Ms S.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1445127