K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Mrs S complain that Elderbridge  Limited has acted  unfairly and unreasonably by 
failed to remove a charge  from their property. They want matters  put right as Mr M says the 
failure stopped  him from setting up a business.
background 
Mr M and Mrs S had a secured loan with a charge held over their security by Elderbridge, 
which was originally taken  out with another  lender.  In 2010, Mr M was declared bankrupt,  but 
Elderbridge said that it hadnt been  informed by the Trustee in Bankruptcy  that the loan was 
included within the bankruptcy estate. It said Mr M and Mrs S could provide more information 
but it wouldnt release  the property without the debt being paid in full.
Mr M and Mrs S complained to us. Elderbridge sent another  letter and said that it now had 
more information,  thanks to both Mr M and the first lender. The charge wasnt in its name, 
but the first lenders.  Elderbridge hadnt been  told by the first lender that a settlement 
between Mr M and the first lender had been  reached  and the debt was no longer due. It 
confirmed that it now had been  told that the first lender had removed the charge. Elderbridge  
explained that it couldnt have removed the charge as it wasnt  in its name  and it couldnt  
comment on what the first lender shouldve done, but said it had helped resolve the matter. 
The investigators view was that Mr M had raised the issue of the charge  not being  removed  
several times with Elderbridge, and it kept telling him it wouldnt be as the loan hadnt been  
paid. The investigator thought Elderbridge shouldve investigated the situation much more  
thoroughly and the overall compensation should be £250. But he didnt recommend 
compensation for financial loss as there had been no evidence  of this provided  by Mr M 
(though if it was provided, the investigator said hed consider it). The investigator also said 
that Elderbridge  had given Mr M incorrect information about  the amount allegedly owed, and 
the trouble and upset caused by this was included in the extra compensation recommended.
Elderbridge disagreed. It said there  wasnt proof that the debt had been settled, but if the first 
lender had received the money, then it was its duty to remove  the charge and it should pay 
compensation. The investigator explained  that as Elderbridge owned  the account,  it should 
ensure the debt claimed was right and it had been told by the first lender and this service 
that the debt had been paid. He also said that it was Elderbridges responsibility once it 
owned the debt to deal with the account  properly, and it hadnt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I entirely agree with the investigators view - Elderbridge has missed  the point in its response 
to his view. Elderbridge is responsible for its own dealings with Mr M, regardless of whether 
the first lender  is at fault for failing to remove the charge having  reached a settlement with 
Mr M. The first lender  has accepted that settlement  was made and removed the charge, so it 
isnt clear why Elderbridge keeps disputing this point.
Ref: DRN17067522Mr M hasnt  provided any evidence that the failure  to remove  the charge has caused him 
financial loss (as opposed  to his financial history), and I accept that the failure  to remove  the 
charge is the fault of the first lender in any event (as the charge was in its name and it 
reached the agreement with Mr M). So any loss connected to the failure to remove  isnt 
Elderbridges fault. 
But what  is Elderbridges fault is the failure to promptly  and properly investigate the matter or 
ensure that the amount claimed  was correct. Mr M more than once explained  the position to 
Elderbridge and its first reaction was to claim money was due, not to contact the first lender 
as would be fair and reasonable. This caused  trouble  and upset to Mr M. While money never  
truly compensates for trouble and upset, I can see Mr M has had to complain and make 
several attempts  to get Elderbridge to properly deal with the matter. I think £250  
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Elderbridge Limited should pay £250  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by its failings to Mr M and Mrs S. Under  the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1706752