K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax) did not tell him that the fixed rate 
products available in November 2018 could be withdrawn. He also complains about  the poor 
service he received from Halifax.
background
Mr Ps fixed  rate was due to end in early  2019.  In late November 2018 Mr P phoned Halifax  to 
discuss what fixed rate products were available. Mr P says the representative he spoke to did 
not explain that the mortgage products available in November 2018  were subject to change.
Mr P also says Halifax provided poor customer service and failed to return his calls.
In late January 2019 Mr P applied on-line for a new fixed rate product  with Halifax.
Mr P was unhappy with the service he had received from Halifax  and complained. It did not 
uphold his complaint. 
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with Halifaxs response  and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should  be upheld. 
He said he had reviewed  the call between Mr P and Halifax in late November  2018  in which 
Mr P asked about the fixed rates  available. Our investigator noted that during the call Halifax 
discussed the fixed rates that were  available at the moment. He also noted that Mr P told 
the representative that he would see what rates were  available with other lenders. He said 
he felt this indicated  that Mr P was aware  that lenders offer different rates  at different times. 
He said he didnt think Halifax  was required  to state specifically that the fixed  rate products it 
offered could change. 
Mr P also complained that the service  he had received from Halifax  was very poor. In 
particular he said that it did not answer  his calls promptly,  or call him back when requested  
to do so. Our investigator said he didnt think the service Halifax had provided was 
unsatisfactory. He said Halifax didnt have  a record of having received any calls from Mr P in 
December 2018.  He also said he hadnt  seen  or heard anything that showed Halifax had 
promised to call Mr P back  during  the call in late November  2018.
He noted Mr P had said that Halifax told him it would  refund the difference  between the two 
year fixed  rate on offer in November 2018 and the rate he selected in January 2019.  But he 
said the Halifax had not been  able to trace a call in which such  an offer was made.
Mr P was not satisfied  with our investigators  response and asked for his complaint to be 
determined by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Mr Ps complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN17886872I have carefully listened to the call between Mr P and Halifax  in late November 2018. Having 
done so, I am satisfied  that that Halifax made  it clear  that the rates being discussed were  not 
guaranteed to be available  at a later date. In particular I note that the representative said 
currently (we) have two fixed  rates  and that at the moment the rates  that we have are 
. and at that moment that is what we have available.
In view of this I am satisfied that Halifax made  it sufficiently clear that the fixed  rates being 
discussed were subject to change. I dont agree that it was required to explicitly  state that 
these rates would not be available indefinitely. 
With regard to the customer service Mr P received, Halifax has been unable to trace  any 
calls from Mr P in December 2018.  As this is the case  I cant safely say that it failed to return 
his calls in December. 
It has also been unable  to find any record of the call Mr P says he had with a team manager 
who told him that Halifax would refund the difference in cost between  the fixed  rate available  
in November 2018 and the rate Mr P took out in January  2019.  In the absence of anything to 
show that Halifax offered  to pay Mr P the difference between the two rates, I cant 
reasonably require Halifax to do so. 
I have listened  to the call recordings that Halifax has provided from early  2019. I appreciate 
that it may have been inconvenient for Mr P that the first representative he spoke to had to 
pass him to a colleague to discuss transferring to a new mortgage  product. But I dont think  
these calls caused Mr P significant  inconvenience.  As this is the case I dont think  that he 
should be awarded compensation for these calls. 
I also note that Mr P was not immediately able to speak to his complaint handler at the 
Halifax. I have listened to the call Mr P had with a member of the complaints team.  I dont 
think there was more that the call handler could  have  done to assist  Mr P. She explained she 
was not dealing with Mr Ps complaint,  but would arrange for her colleague to call him back.  
In the circumstances I dont think this was unreasonable.  
Having carefully considered this matter I dont think Halifax has acted incorrectly in this 
matter or treated Mr P unfairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1788687