K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Miss K complain  that Santander  UK plc has treated them  unfairly. In particular, 
they say it has unfairly sought possession of their home and hasnt given them enough  time 
to repay  the arrears  on their mortgage, or sell their home. 
background
Mr T and Miss K took out a mortgage  with Santander in early 2008.  They  started 
experiencing difficulty paying their mortgage  in late 2008. The arrears built up and Santander 
obtained a suspended possession order. 
In 2013 Santander agreed to let Mr T and Miss K capitalise the arrears  on their mortgage. 
Unfortunately Mr T and Miss K experienced further  financial  difficulty  and the mortgage fell 
into arrears again  in mid 2016. They were able to clear these arrears.  
The mortgage then fell into arrears again in November 2017,  when Mr T lost his job. 
Information Santander has provided shows it made several attempts to discuss the arrears  
with Mr T and Miss K. As no agreement was made  to repay the arrears, Santander wrote to 
them warning that it would  start possession proceedings.  
I understand that Mr T and Miss K put the property on the market in early  2018.
In August  2018  Mr T and Miss K complained to Santander. They  said they felt it had treated 
them unfairly by seeking a possession  order. 
Santander didnt  uphold their complaint. It said it had tried to contacted  Mr T and Miss K 
about the arrears  on their mortgage in January 2018. As the arrears had not been reduced  
and it didnt hear from Mr T and Miss K it said it had started the litigation process  in April 
2018. 
In order to assist Mr T and Miss K it agreed a new payment plan with them following their 
complaint. This payment  plan was not maintained.
Santander again instructed its legal representatives as the payment plan had not been  
maintained and obtained a possession order in December 2018. 
Mr T and Miss K appealed and the action was suspended. Mr T and Miss K then made  
another agreement  with Santander to pay the full contractual monthly payment from 1 
February 2019 plus £80.35 towards the arrears. It appears this arrangement has not been  
kept. 
Mr T and Miss K then brought  their complaint to this service. They said they felt Santander 
should allow  them more  time to sell the property and shouldnt have re-started possession 
proceedings.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that their complaint should be upheld. She noted 
Santander had tried to help Mr T and Miss K since late 2008 by agreeing payment plans and 
allowing Mr T and Miss K to capitalise  the arrears on their mortgage. She also said she felt it 
had given sufficient  notice of its intentions to start legal proceedings. 
Ref: DRN12672592Mr T and Miss K didnt  accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to 
determine their complaint.  Mr T said that between 2008 and 2011 he had suffered from 
severe depression  and he didnt think Santander had done enough to help at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr T and Miss Ks position. I can see that this matter  has caused them a 
great deal of worry and upset. But in order to uphold this complaint I would need  to be 
satisfied that Santander  had done  something wrong,  or had not treated them fairly. 
All lenders are required  to treat customers in financial difficulty fairly. I havent seen anything  
to show that Santander has treated Mr T and Miss K unfairly. It allowed them to capitalise 
the arrears on their mortgage and agreed  a number of payment plans with them each time 
the mortgage fell into arrears.
I appreciate that being in financial difficulty can be very worrying,  but Santander was entitled 
to contact Mr T and Miss K about the arrears on their mortgage. 
As the arrears were continuing  to increase,  and Mr T and Miss K werent able to maintain the 
payment arrangements  they had made, I think Santander was entitled to seek  a possession  
order.
I note that Mr T says he has now found a buyer  for the property and is due to complete the 
sale shortly.  As this is the case it seems  unlikely that Santander will now need to take 
possession of the property. However if the sale does not complete, I cant  reasonably  say 
that Santander is not entitled to seek possession of the property as the arrears have 
continued to increase and the most recent agreement to repay the arrears had not been 
kept.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Miss K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have explained above,  I do not uphold this complaint.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1267259