K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc did not change the 
mailing address  for its statements resulting in potential financial loss.
background
The director  of C says he was concerned  that his business partner was taking money from 
C. So he arranged to remove  her as a signatory to the bank  account  at NatWest and she 
also no longer  acted as a director  of C. He says he telephoned NatWest  on 4 January 2019  
to change the statement mailing  address for C and for his personal statements. The address 
for the personal  statements  was changed  on 16 January  2019.  But NatWest  sent out 
statements for C on 15 January and 15 February  2019 to the old address. He says this 
meant the previous director saw them and wanted a bigger payment for her shares in C. 
NatWest did not have any record of the request for the address change but it accepted  what 
C said and paid it £300. This included compensation for poor service about  changing  the 
signing mandate in December  2018.
Our investigator did not recommend NatWest do anymore.  He said that:
-The director had said that the payment from NatWest was to cover money the 
previous director had taken out. But that was not something NatWest had provided 
the compensation for and this was a civil matter with that previous director.
-There is no evidence C has made a loss as a result of what  happened. And the ex 
director may have gained access to Cs statements anyway if there were court  
proceedings.
-The payment  NatWest had already made was reasonable.
C did not agree and the director said that his ex business partner had taken  out £300 even 
though he had removed her as a signatory. He wanted this service to listen  to the telephone  
calls. And he said that if C broke data protection requirements in this way it could be fined 
huge sums. NatWest  had not said anything about  sending statements to the wrong address 
when considering compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide informal dispute resolution and we are not the regulator and do not make 
punitive awards. 
There are no records  of telephone calls with C and NatWest has accepted  the directors 
account that he asked for the address for the statements  of C to be changed  on 4 January 
2019. And I see no reason not to accept that too. The issue I need to consider is the actual 
impact of this and whether there was any financial loss. Weve not been looking in this 
complaint about  whether the previous  director  was able to take money she was not entitled  
to and I agree that this is a civil matter  between her and C.
C has not substantiated that it suffered any financial loss due to the error. And the ex 
business partner  would  have been due a fair settlement for her shares based on the true 
performance of C. I consider that the compensation already paid for the error and for poor 
Ref: DRN13051432customer service  is reasonable and in my view covers the issues with the statements. And 
so Im afraid  I wont  be asking NatWest  to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that National Westminster  
Bank Plc need  take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1305143