K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt  with his home 
insurance claim for damage  caused by collision. 
background
Mr T made a claim to RSA in July 2017 after a willow tree located in his back garden  fell 
down causing  damage to the concrete bank and bed of a stream that ran though his garden. 
Damage was also caused to a pathway and to a fence and a shed in his neighbours garden. 
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to visit Mr T to validate the claim. The loss adjusters visit 
took place on 5 August 2017 during which he told Mr T the claim would not be covered. He 
said the damage hadnt been caused  by any of the insured perils  listed in the policy. The 
loss adjuster said the policy  covered  damage  caused by falling trees but only where the 
damage was to the main property. 
Mr T complained to RSA.  He said hed initially been  told the removal of the tree and damage 
to the path would be covered (for which hed sent RSA a quote  as requested) and hed told 
his neighbour  this as well. He said his neighbour was angry that the tree now wouldnt be 
removed. Mr T said the policy definition for buildings included  paths  and permanent  
structures. He also said if a tree collided with the building (as defined in the policy)  then the 
policy covered the removal of the tree. He also complained that RSAs claim management 
portal was difficult to use whichd caused  him frustration when trying to upload  documents. 
He also explained  that he suffered with his mental  health and that the behaviour of RSA and 
its loss adjuster was causing him un-necessary  additional  stress. 
RSA looked into Mr Ts complaint and issued a final response letter  on 12 September 2017 
but didnt think  itd unfairly declined Mr Ts claim.  Despite not upholding Mr Ts complaint, 
RSAs underwriters reviewed some information  he had recently sent in (including repair 
quotes to repair the riverbed and bank)  and said there  may be areas of damage which the 
loss adjuster had failed  to inspect and which may be covered. So RSA agreed to instruct  a 
loss adjuster to conduct a second  visit. 
The loss adjuster carried out the revisit in October  2017 and reported  to RSA (and told Mr T) 
that it needed to accept  liability  for the claim as the bank and path had been damaged as a 
result of the falling tree which was covered by the policy. She said shed settled  Mr Ts 
quotes for the removal of the tree and roots  and reinstatement of the path. She said the bank 
needed to be rebuilt near to where the tree was and upstream.  And she said a hole in the 
riverbed floor needed to be refilled.  She said shed  seen  estimates  obtained by Mr T for 
some of this work but had asked him to obtain  one more estimate from each  contractor for 
the areas that needed reinstating and to send them in for review.  
In the weeks that followed  the visit and report there were  ongoing  discussions between  RSA 
and the loss adjuster as to the extent of cover  and on 9 November 2017 Mr T was told that 
the payment for the tree removal costs  and path repair  had been  raised  but that the damage 
to the riverbed and stone  riverbank wall had been referred to underwriters. A few days  later 
Mr T sent RSA the quote that the loss adjuster had asked for. A month  later, the loss 
adjuster chased  RSA for its underwriters decision on cover. 
RSA told the loss adjuster itd sought  a copy of the policy terms from the policy  administrator  
(a separate  business). It received these  on 21 December  2017. On 27 December, RSA sent 
Ref: DRN19646282the loss adjuster a copy of the wording to say that policy definition for buildings definitely 
didnt include riverbeds  so it wouldnt  be covering that damage.  
It wasnt until 2 February  2018  that the loss adjuster  called Mr T to let him know the 
underwriter had declined  cover.  The loss adjuster said that if Mr T had any other information  
it would  willingly pass it on to RSA. It also asked him for a copy of the property deeds as 
underwriters wanted  to check the stream was within his boundary. Mr T pointed  out that the 
definition of buildings included any permanent structure and that as the riverbed was 
manmade in concrete it was covered. He also confirmed the stream was within his 
boundary. 
There were various communications over the next few weeks culminating in a call to Mr T to 
say the damage  to the riverbank and bed wasnt covered because it was pre-existing.  At the 
start of April 2018, Mr T complained about the decision to decline his claim. The loss 
adjuster referred  the claim back to underwriters  who said on 30 April again  that there was no 
cover. 
Mr T said he wanted an official repudiation  letter  and a copy of the loss adjusters revisit 
report from October 2018. This information was sent to him in early May. RSA and the loss 
adjuster considered why Mr T felt sure the claim was covered and having  done  so requested 
photographs from him of the damaged riverbed which he sent in on 21 May 2018.  In early 
June RSA told Mr T the damage to the riverbed was caused by tree roots  pushing  out and 
erosion not by collision so the decision to decline was maintained.  
On 12 June 2018 Mr T wrote to the loss adjuster  challenging the decision again. He said the 
upstream damage was to a concrete  wall bank which was part of the buildings  and hadnt 
been considered.  He also wanted to know why the revisiting loss adjusters view was being 
ignored. He complained about the delays.
In August  2018  Mr T complained to RSA about  the way it, its underwriters and the loss 
adjuster had handled his claim. He said itd been going on for over a year and in the 
meantime further  damage  had been sustained. He said RSA still hadnt given him a reason 
for declining  his claim. He said he felt passed about  between RSA and the loss adjuster and 
that he failed to understand why the revisiting  adjusters  report had been ignored. Mr T said 
that the policy terms covered the damage hed claimed for. He said hed also experienced 
delays in communication and that RSA had caused him un-necessary stress  and difficulties  
with his neighbour. Mr T said he wanted  RSA to settle the claim based on the quote hed 
obtained (for £14,963 including VAT) and asked also for compensation totalling  £1,100  
(made up of the return of his £100  policy excess and a further £1,000).  
RSA looked into Mr Ts complaint and issued a second final response letter  on 23 October 
2018 in which it said it would cover the damage to the riverbank because it was constructed  
of block terraces and to the riverbed because  it was constructed of blocks.  It said itd asked 
the loss adjuster to contact Mr T to arrange  settlement and that it should be in touch with him 
shortly. It also said it was paying him compensation of £250 in acknowledgement of the poor 
customer service  hed received. 
Mr Ts claim was eventually cash settled in April 2019. Later the same month Mr T 
complained to this service. He said he didnt think compensation  of £250 was sufficient for 
the delays and stress hed endured trying to resolve  his claim. He said hed had to chase 
RSA and the loss adjuster for 21 months in order to get paid which  was unreasonable. He 
thought compensation of £2,000 plus the return of his policy excess would better reflect  the 
Ref: DRN19646283trouble and upset  hed been caused.  He said he wanted this service  to investigate the loss 
adjuster and to seek ways  of preventing what hed experienced  happening to others in the 
future. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and recommended that it was upheld.  He 
thought RSA should increase the compensation itd paid Mr T to £750 and refund his policy  
excess of £100.  Our investigator explained  that, as we arent the industry regulator, we were 
unable to investigate  financial businesses. 
Both Mr T and RSA disagreed with our investigators findings, so the complaint was passed 
to me for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the claim itself has now been  settled, it is my role to assess whether  the amount of 
compensation offered to Mr T by RSA is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Im in agreement with our investigator  that the amount offered by RSA doesnt 
fairly reflect the amount of trouble and upset caused to Mr T by the way his claim was 
handled. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, its worth pointing  out that this complaint  is confined to considering how Mr Ts claim 
was handled in the period between the two final response letters: namely 12 September  
2017 and 23 October  2018. I cant consider any complaint here about  anything that 
happened outside of this period of time.  Thats because the first final response letter dealt 
with Mr Ts complaint up to 12 September  2017. As he didnt then go on to complain to this 
service about the outcome of that complaint it is now time barred under our rules. In other 
words, I cant now look at anything that happened  before the date of the first final response 
letter. 
And I cant look at anything here about  what happened after the second final response  letter  
either because RSA has only considered Mr Ts complaint up to that date. That is the 
complaint that Mr T has referred to this service to investigate. Insofar  as Mr T has any 
complaint with how his claim  progressed after the date of the second letter, he must  first 
refer it to RSA first so that it can investigate it. Should he be dissatisfied with the outcome of 
any complaint he makes,  he will be able to refer a second complaint to this service. 
All insurance  claims attract a certain degree of inconvenience, thats to be expected.  But 
where an insurer, through its words and actions makes an already stressful  and difficult  
situation avoidably  worse, this service  can require it to pay a consumer compensation. I think  
that RSA and its loss adjuster caused  Mr T avoidable additional trouble and upset. 
It is unclear to me why the policy  terms werent correctly interpreted  by either RSA or the 
underwriter so that the claim  was accepted sooner.  If they had been  then over a year of 
avoidable stress and inconvenience for Mr T couldve been averted. Ive seen  the policy 
terms and I note the policy definition for buildings includes the main building and any other  
permanent structure  within  the boundary of your home. The riverbank and riverbed were 
manmade permanent  structures and were  within the boundary of Mr Ts property.
And I can see there is cover  for damage caused  to buildings (as defined  above and thereby 
including the riverbank and riverbed)  by falling trees. So, Mr Ts claim was covered. Yet the 
Ref: DRN19646284first loss adjuster said the damage  wasnt  covered by any of the policy perils. Through Mr Ts 
persistence with the claim he managed to persuade RSA to reconsider its decision and it 
agreed to send out a second loss adjuster.  That loss adjuster advised  RSA in October 2017 
that it needed to accept  liability.  She said the damage was covered. 
I do of course accept that insurers  are entitled  to investigate and validate claims that are 
presented to them. But here, Mr T had, by this point,  explained  to RSA why he thought the 
claim was covered and the loss adjuster had inspected the damage and said it was covered. 
Ive read the file  in particular the claim file notes  and Im not altogether  clear  why RSA 
then referred the matter  to underwriters who repeatedly declined it over the next year. It was 
a full year after the loss adjusters visit before RSA accepted the claim was covered.
RSA and its underwriters repeatedly declined cover stating that there was no cover under 
the policy for riverbeds.  No explanation  was put to Mr T why this was relevant. There  was no 
attempt to analyse the damage and explain why it couldnt cover damage  to the riverbed. Im 
not clear why the damage was, at one point, declared pre-existing. Nor is it clear to me why 
the loss adjusters recommendation to accept liability for the claim was overridden.  
Of course,  the policy doesnt provide  cover  for damage to riverbeds and banks specifically, 
but it does provide cover to permanent structures  within the boundary  of the home. And, as I 
said above, this particular riverbed and bank  were manmade permanent  structures  within the 
boundary of Mr Ts home.  
But for the persistence of Mr T, its reasonable to think this claim would never  have been 
settled. By failing to initially determine what the correct policy  terms were,  and then to 
compound that error by failing to interpret the terms correctly (despite Mr T pointing them out 
on more than one occasion),  and by failing to fully explain  the rationale  for its decision, RSA 
caused Mr T a years avoidable inconvenience  in having to pursue a claim that was valid 
from the outset. Im afraid  I dont share RSAs view that there were plenty of grey areas  
related to policy cover. 
Mr T complied with all of RSAs requests for information promptly  providing quotes, deeds  
and photographs etc. Yet RSA took two months  after the loss adjusters re-visit to obtain  a 
copy of the policy terms at which point it decided it wouldnt  cover  the claim for damage to 
the riverbed and bank. It then took a further six weeks for the loss adjuster to communicate  
that decision to Mr T. I think these delays were  avoidable. I cant  see from the evidence Ive 
seen that anything was going  on with the claim to justify them. 
Obviously having  a tree situated  on his property fall down and collide with his neighbours 
shed and fence  was stressful for Mr T. That this happened at all is no fault of RSAs. But I 
can see why its decision to tell Mr T when he first registered the claim that the removal of 
the tree would be covered, only to retract it on the first loss adjusters  visit, caused him un-
necessary and avoidable difficulties in relations with his neighbour. 
Mr T also explained to RSA in August 2017 that he had mental health issues  and that its 
handling of the claim  was exacerbating them.  Having reviewed the file its not unreasonable 
to assume that the trouble he experienced uploading documents to RSAs case  system, the 
avoidable delays,  difficulty with his neighbour and need to repeatedly pursue a valid claim in 
the face of repeated denial of liability caused  him additional avoidable  distress  and 
inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN19646285I know that Mr T thinks that in addition  to having  his policy excess of £100 refunded (my 
understanding is that RSA collected it), he should  also receive compensation of £2,000 
because it took him 21 months to get his claim paid and because of all the difficulties he was 
caused by RSA and its loss adjuster throughout this period. As I said above,  I cant  look here 
at anything outside of the 13-month period between the two final decisions. And for the 
avoidable trouble and upset RSA and its loss adjuster  caused  Mr T during this period  I think  
that the return of his £100 policy excess and payment of a further  £500  in compensation 
(taking the total compensation paid for this period in time to £850) is fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr T may be disappointed that Im not going to award  him anymore,  but I 
have to have regard to this services  approach to compensation when making an award. And 
this amount is in line with awards we have  made  in similar circumstances.  
Finally, whilst I appreciate Mr Ts strength of feeling about wanting  an investigation carried 
out into the actions of the loss adjuster and RSA,  Im afraid thats not something this service  
is able to do. We can only look at the circumstances of an individual  complaint. Its the role 
of the regulator  the Financial Conduct  Authority  to investigate  industry  wide issues  or 
look into business practises conduct  themselves if necessary.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to pay Mr T total compensation of £850.  If it has already paid him £250  it only need now pay 
him a further £600. This amount includes the refunding of the policy excess of £100 as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1964628