K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that the change Lloyds Bank Plc made to the way they charge for her 
overdrafts is unfair. Mrs P says she wasnt notified by Lloyds about  the change  and they 
didnt agree to her proposed repayment  plan. 
background
Mrs P had two overdrafts with Lloyds,  in total having  a £1,250 limit and making significant 
use of the facility most months. 
Lloyds changed  the way they charge for overdrafts  in November 2017. Rather than charging 
usage fees and interest  they switched  to a daily charge of 1p per £7 of balance used. This 
resulted in Mrs P paying more for her overdraft than she had before  about £50 a month  
instead of £30. 
Mrs P complained to Lloyds saying she didnt receive advance notification  of the changes 
and shed like Lloyds  to combine her two overdrafts and convert  them to an interest free loan 
 with repayments of £50 a month.  Lloyds  said they wrote to all customers in August and 
September 2017 to let them know about the change. They didnt comment  on Mrs Ps 
proposed offer but advised Mrs P to contact  a different department  within Lloyds to complete 
a financial review. Unhappy with this response Mrs P referred her complaint to us. 
Mrs P is also unhappy that Lloyds  havent contacted her authorised representative  as 
requested. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ps concerns. He concluded  that:
-The notification letter was sent to Mrs P;
-It was fair Lloyds didnt comment on the proposed offer,  as they advised  Mrs P to 
contact them for a financial review;
-Lloyds should  have acknowledged  the request for correspondence  to go to Mrs Ps 
authorised representative  so they should pay Mrs P £50 in recognition of that. 
Neither Lloyds nor Mrs P agreed with the assessment. In summary  Lloyds didnt  think they 
should write to Mrs Ps representative so didnt  do so. Mrs P said:
-On finding  out about  the changes Mrs P went to her local branch but was told to put 
her concerns into writing;
-She thinks 40 minutes wait to speak to Lloyds on the phone is unacceptable, so only 
communicated with them  in writing;
-The bank  could  have  sent out a financial review form but failed to do so;
-They didnt respond to her request for an interest free loan. 
Since Mrs P brought her complaint to our service, both of her overdrafts have defaulted as 
theyve been over the arranged overdraft limit for a number of months. Before this, Lloyds 
sent formal demand  letters to Mrs P in January and February 2018 which said if the full 
balance wasnt paid or an arrangement reached  then defaults may be registered. 
Since our investigators opinion Mrs P has offered to pay back  the overdrafts in full, if the 
defaults are removed from her credit  file. Lloyds said they wont be removing the defaults  as 
they need to report accurate financial information  to credit reference agencies.  So they wont  
be accepting her offer. 
Ref: DRN11954222As neither party agreed with the investigators  assessment  Mrs Ps case has been  passed to 
me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I broadly  agree with our 
investigator. 
Mrs P says that the change Lloyds have made to the terms of her current account is unfair. 
Its not for me to make a general finding  on whether the term Lloyds relied on is or isnt fair. 
A finding like this would impact on people who dont have a complaint with us, some of 
whom may be happy with thats happened. What I need to decide is whether Lloyds treated 
Mrs P fairly and reasonably. And this does mean considering the fairness of the term in so 
far as it affects her personally, taking  into account  the law.  
The law that applies here is the Consumer Rights Act 2015  which says an unfair  term 
isnt binding on the consumer. The Act says that a term allowing a business to change  a 
contract unilaterally without giving  a valid reason in the contract is likely to be unfair.  But that 
doesnt include a term allowing  a change in charges for financial services,  providing the 
consumer must be told about  it at the earliest opportunity, and can dissolve the contract. 
Did the bank have  to tell Mrs P about  the change? 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account at the time Lloyds made  the 
change  November  2017. The term that applies  is below. 
13. How and when  will we tell you about changes and what  are your rights?
13.3  all changes to interest rates or the fees charged on overdraft unless they favour the 
customer require notice  of at least two months  before the change. 
Mrs P is being charged higher overdraft fees so I dont think the change  favoured her  so as 
per the terms and conditions of her account  Lloyds  needed to give her 2 months  notice.
Ive considered whether Lloyds followed their terms and conditions.  And in doing so I think  
Mrs P was given enough notice  about the change before it happened. Ive seen evidence 
from Lloyds case management systems  which show Mrs P was sent a letter  in July 2017 
informing her of what was going to happen. This was more  than two months before the 
change took effect.  I understand that Mrs P says she didnt receive this notification   but 
from the evidence  Ive seen Im satisfied it was sent. I think its more likely than not she 
received it as well. But even if she didnt receive it, or overlooked it, she found  out about  the 
changes soon after they were introduced. 
Can Mrs P afford the increased charges and therefore avoid her accounts  defaulting?
I understand that soon after the change in overdraft charges Mrs P made a proposal  to 
Lloyds for them to convert her two overdrafts into an interest free loan  and for her to pay 
£50 per month to reduce  the debt. Although Ive not seen  an income and expenditure from 
Mrs P it seems  she can afford the new charges. I say this because the £50 offer she made is 
roughly the same amount  as Mrs P was required to pay in overdraft fees after the change.  
Ref: DRN11954223Lloyds didnt accept  this offer and I dont think this is unreasonable  of them. They  did offer to 
explore other potential  options with her. Other than offering to pay the overdrafts back in full, 
as long as the defaults  are removed, Ms P hasnt  discussed alternative options with Lloyds. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs P was able to afford the new overdraft charges. In 
doing so she would  have been able to avoid receiving the formal demand  notices  and her 
accounts defaulting. 
Could Mrs P dissolve her contract  with the bank?
Dissolving the contract  here means  closing the current account. Mrs P was able to do that at 
any time  in the sense that the account terms didnt  prevent her from doing that or require 
her, for example,  to pay a fee to do so. But I need to consider whether it was practical  for 
Mrs P, given  that shed  need to make arrangements to repay her overdraft. Whilst Mrs P has 
said that shes unhappy with the increase  in the charges, she hasnt suggested she couldnt 
afford them. More recently  Mrs P also made  an offer to pay back  the full amount 
outstanding. So it seems she was free to dissolve  her contract with Lloyds, both legally and 
in practical terms. As Mrs Ps overdraft isnt a permanent feature of her accounts and she 
can be asked to pay back what she owes at any time, I dont think  its unfair for her to 
explore other options to avoid paying  higher charges. Also,  it wouldnt be fair to compensate 
Mrs P for the effects of the change when she could  have avoided  them.  
Lloyds failing to write  to Mrs Ps representative
Im satisfied that Mrs P asked Lloyds on more than one occasion to write to her 
representative. Lloyds  say that they didnt do this as it wasnt  clear  the request was for all 
correspondence to go to Mrs Ps representative. However I dont agree with Lloyds on this  
I think the letters are clear in asking  all correspondence to go to the third party. What I need  
to consider is the impact this had on Mrs P. Im unable to see that this had a significant 
impact on Mrs P  mainly  as Mrs Ps representative  lives at the same address  but I do 
think she suffered a small amount of stress from the incorrectly  addressed correspondence. 
In conclusion I dont  think the changes were  unfair  because Mrs P could  have taken steps to 
avoid their impact and in doing so stop her accounts defaulting. And the charges havent 
created financial  hardship because Mrs P offered to pay the amount required to cover the 
fees. Lloyds did however  fail to follow the request  made by Mrs P representative, and I think  
they need to provide Mrs P some compensation for the stress  caused.
my final decision
I direct  Lloyds  bank PLC to:
-Pay Mrs P £50 for the trouble  and upset caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1195422