K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about the short term loans she took out with CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading 
as QuickQuid. Mrs H says that she took out numerous payday loans, and some  of these 
were used to repay other lending. She says QuickQuid shouldnt  have lent to her as she 
couldnt afford to make  the repayments.  
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. QuickQuid disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mrs Hs complaint should  be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
QuickQuid and Mrs H received my provisional  decision. Mrs H didnt comment on it. 
QuickQuid, didnt agree with my provisional  decision. It said that:
the checks it made on all of the lending were proportionate
the pattern  of lending in itself couldnt  show that the Mrs H was likely to be unable to 
repay the loans  sustainably
Mrs H had a good repayment history  and repaid some of her loans early, she didnt 
have significant  repayment problems and the amounts she borrowed fluctuated
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of QuickQuids response is that it believes that the number of loans isnt in itself a 
factor which could suggest the lending wasnt sustainable. 
I dont agree with this. I havent set out all of the reasons  this service considers a pattern of 
frequent reborrowing to be a potentially relevant factor. This information is available on our 
website. And QuickQuid is familiar with it from previous decisions. 
Its also relevant to note that the industry regulator  recently wrote to payday loan providers to 
support this approach on reborrowing. It said that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern 
of dependency  which is harmful  to the consumer.  
And QuickQuid said in its final response to Mrs H:
if you were  dependent  on taking out one loan to repay the other then you would have 
taken out numerous loans, for equal or increasing  loan amounts, and with very little time 
between paying  off one loan and taking out the other...
In my view, this is exactly what happened in Mrs Hs case. She borrowed for an extended 
time with very little break in between the loans.  
Ref: DRN13198932Its not clear why QuickQuid doesnt  now agree that the number of loans can indicate  
unsustainable or otherwise harmful lending, when it already said that this could be the case.  
Its possible the number  of loans wont always be a factor   for example where there  are 
significant gaps  between the loans  and its clear the consumer isnt relying on them  to 
supplement their income. But I dont think this applies here. 
So overall I think Mrs Hs complaint should still be upheld and for the same  reasons I 
outlined in my earlier  decision. 
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs H paid on loans 7 to 10a;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 means  any information  recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 7 to 10a should be removed from Mrs Hs credit 
file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Hs complaint.
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13198933Copy Provisional Decision
Mrs H took out ten payday  loans between November 2015 and July 2016.  All of the loans  were due to 
be repaid over more than one period.  They would typically have one or two smaller repayments with a 
larger one at the end of the term. Most of the loans were repaid early. Some of the information 
QuickQuid has given us is shown in the table below: 
loan  number date  startedamount 
borrowedterm  (days)number  of 
repaymentsdate  ended
1 02/11/2015 £300 28 2 06/11/2015
2 30/11/2015 £250 42 3 04/12/2015
3 22/12/2015 £100 27 2 27/12/2015
4 02/01/2016 £250 30 2 08/01/2016
5 23/01/2016 £150 44 3
5a 24/01/2016 £50 43 302/02/2016
6 29/02/2016 £200 42 3 09/03/2016
7 29/03/2016 £150 41 3 08/04/2016
7a 31/03/2016 £125 39 3
8 16/04/2016 £200 45 308/04/2016
9 01/06/2016 £400 90 3 07/07/2016
10 14/07/2016 £200 47 2
10a 26/07/2016 £150 35 213/09/2016
QuickQuid has looked at Mrs Hs complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld.  It said that it did 
appropriate checks for all of the loans. And these checks showed that the lending was affordable 
based on Mrs Hs declared monthly income and expenditure. It also said that Mrs H didnt show any 
signs of being dependent  on short term lending and she didnt notify it of any financial hardship. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Hs complaint and recommended that QuickQuid refund the 
interest and charges that she paid on loans 9 to 10a. QuickQuid didnt agree with this 
recommendation and so the case  has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to partially uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  Having  reviewed the 
evidence I have available  I think QuickQuid was wrong to have given  Mrs H loans 7 to 10a. Ill explain 
why.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Mrs H and QuickQuid said.  She thought  Mrs Hs complaint 
should be partially  upheld. She thought  that QuickQuid had made proportionate checks  for loans 1 to 
4. So she thought that its decisions to lend were reasonable  for these loans. 
She didnt  think that QuickQuid had made proportionate  checks for loans 5 to 10a. She thought  if it 
had then it wouldnt have  agreed to lend Mrs H money for loans 9 to 10a. This is because  she didnt 
think that Mrs H could  afford the repayments. And QuickQuid  wouldve seen this had it completed 
better checks.  She said she didnt have enough information to be able to say that Miss H wouldnt 
have been able to afford the repayments to loans 5 to 8. 
Ref: DRN13198934QuickQuid didnt comment  on our adjudicators findings about the proportionality of its checks  or the 
affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to consider. It responded  to our 
adjudication saying:
 Thank you for providing your assessment regarding Mrs Hs complaint.  In response to your 
assessment which recommends CashEuroNet UK uphold  loans which were funded  after March  2015, 
we regret to inform  you that we cannot agree  to your recommendations in relation to QuickQuid loans 
9 and 10. We would like to provide more  information regarding these  loans. I have attached  the entire  
lending process including all the checks that we perform prior to lending, the screenshots of customer 
applications as well as the sample acknowledgement from the contract  that customers  have to check  
when their repayment  amount is greater than their estimated disposable income.
QuickQuid first mentioned  this argument in its business  submissions  to us in which  it said:
We started implementing changes  to affordability assessment in June 2014 and all the changes 
were completed by Feb 28th 2015. Starting 1st March,  2015 before Mrs H borrowed  her first loan, 
QuickQuid had implemented an affordability review that is consistent  with the FCA Handbook and that 
was in place at the time we received authorisation by the FCA. We confirm that this assessment was 
conducted properly  and individually  for each of these last ten loans.
It provided further detail about the checks it had made  when it approved  loans from 2015 onwards in 
a document called CEU Lending Criteria and Proportional Checks. And this response didnt change  
our adjudicators opinion.
This Service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic argument  directly and through earlier final 
decisions. So I am not going  to expand on this point any further here, though I have considered  it 
alongside everything else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in how 
complaints are to be dealt  with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular  DISP 
1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively  applied 
in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination  by the Ombudsman to the individuals  in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman  concerning complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals 
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance  produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals  dealing with complaints in the 
respondent. 
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mrs Hs complaint and what  both parties  have  said about 
this.
The FCA was the regulator  at the time Mrs H borrowed  the loans in question. Bearing in mind  the 
rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business (PRIN)  and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am not 
quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would expect QuickQuid to be conversant 
with these  through previous  ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  set these  out 
in detail.) 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
Ref: DRN13198935-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics  of Mrs Hs complaint,
QuickQuid says: 
it recorded Mrs Hs monthly income as being £1,399 for loans 1 to 8 and £735 for loans 9 to 
10a 
it recorded her monthly expenditure  as £475 for loans  1 to 3 and £375 for the remainder
it validated the information it obtained using credit reference agency data
it used  the information it had gained from the credit  reports to adjust the amounts Mrs H had 
provided to calculated  what it called her estimated  disposable income
my provisional  findings  for loans  1 to 6
Ive carefully thought about  what  QuickQuid and Mrs H have  provided and what both sides have said. 
Mrs H didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion  about  loans 1 to 8. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about  these  loans. That said I think QuickQuid should  pay 
compensation in respect of loans 7 to 10a. But given  there is no ongoing dispute about the loans 
earlier to this Im not intending to make a decision about loans 1 to 6.
But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs H had with QuickQuid.  So they are something I 
will take into account when  considering  the other loans she took.
I havent recreated  individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans  7 to 10a because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case  in the next section.
taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mrs Hs indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of lending.  Ive looked to see if there was a point at which  
QuickQuid should reasonably have seen that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so it should have  realised that it shouldnt have provided any further lending. Given the particular 
circumstances of Mrs Hs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 7. I say this because:
Mrs H wasnt really reducing the amount she owed QuickQuid.  She was, in effect,  paying  
large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended period
Mrs H had some  repayment problems just before loan 7 
And, as our adjudicator noted, after loan 9 Mrs Hs recorded income  fell significantly but 
QuickQuid continued to approve loans
I think  that Mrs H has lost out because QuickQuid  continued to approve loans from loan 7 onwards  
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mrs Hs indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  over an extended period of time
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Mrs Hs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost  loans
So Im currently  upholding Mrs Hs complaint about loans 7 to 10a because  the overall  pattern of 
lending increased her indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and shes 
lost out as a result.
Ref: DRN13198936did QuickQuid act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mrs H in some other way.  
Ref: DRN1319893