K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that Evergreen  Finance London  Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) was 
irresponsible in its lending  to him.
Background
Based on the information provided, MoneyBoat provided Mr S with three loans  between  
November 2017  and August 2018.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 02/11/2017 17/11/2017 5 £300
2 04/04/2018 01/08/2018 4 £400
3 01/08/2018 08/11/2018 6 £500
Mr S says that at the time of the loans  he was earning less than £1,500  a month  and was 
struggling to meet his payments on existing debts including other short term loans.  He says 
his credit file showed his other debts and that his indebtedness was increasing. He says that 
inadequate checks were  carried  out before the loans were provided.
MoneyBoat says that when assessing a loan application a credit  check is carried  out and 
while a customer may have adverse information recorded on their file this doesn't 
necessarily prevent them from being provided with a loan. It says it carried  out affordability 
and credit checks and that based  on its checks the loans were  sustainably affordable.
MoneyBoat noted that Mr S had made seven applications and it had only approved the 
applications that met its lending criteria. It also noted  that the first and third loans were 
repaid in full before the repayment date and that Mr S didn't tell it about any financial 
difficulties at the time of the loans.
Our adjudicator didn't think  she had enough  information to say that the first two loans 
shouldn't have been provided. However  she thought  that by loan three the information  
gathered by MoneyBoat showed Mr S was having  problems managing his money. She noted 
Mr S had three outstanding loans with other short term loan providers at this time and she 
thought MoneyBoat should have realised it was unlikely  Mr S could sustainably  repay  this 
loan.
MoneyBoat didn't accept our adjudicator's  view.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision n this complaint. I concluded in summary:
the information gathered before the first loan was provided  didnt raise sufficient 
concerns to require  further checks to take place. I found  it reasonable this loan was 
provided;
the credit  check undertaken before the second  loan was provided should have raised 
concerns. Mr S' level of debt had increased significantly since the previous credit  
check (five months earlier) as had his number of active accounts and accounts  taken  
out within the previous six months. I thought a full review of Mr S' financial situation 
should have taken place before this loan was provided to ensure it was affordable;
Ref: DRN19205172if further checks had taken place, MoneyBoat would have realised Mr S was 
struggling to manage his money. He was taking out short  term loans with multiple 
lenders and appeared to be using  new loans to repay previous ones. Given  this I 
didnt think that loan two was sustainably  affordable;
the third loan was taken out on the day the second was repaid. Mr S' financial 
situation hadn't changed from when the second  loan was provided and he was still 
making use of multiple other  short term lenders. The loan was for a larger amount 
and over a longer  term and again, based on the information provided, I found that 
this loan shouldn't have  been considered sustainably affordable.
Based on the above I upheld this complaint in regard to loans two and three.
Neither party provided any further information in response to my provisional decision.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out 
proportionate checks to make sure that Mr S could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner - 
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. These checks  could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate.
As I explained in my provisional decision I think that further checks should have taken place 
before the second loan was provided  given the concerns raised in the credit check. These 
checks would have  shown  that Mr S was struggling  to manage his money. This situation 
didnt change before  the third loan was provided. Because  of this I dont think that loans two 
ad three were sustainably affordable and so I uphold  this complaint in regard to these loans.
Ref: DRN19205173My final decision
My final decision is that Evergreen  Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) 
shouldn't have provided loans two and three to Mr S. It should:
A.add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr S towards interest,  fees and 
charges on loans two and three,  including payments made to a third party  where 
applicable, but not including  anything that has already  refunded;
B.calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments considered  as part of "A", 
calculated from the date Mr S made the payments,  to the date the complaint is 
settled;
C.pay Mr S the total of "A" plus "B"; and
D.remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr S' credit  file in relation to loans two 
and three.
*HM Revenue & Customs expects tax to be deducted from this interest. Evergreen Finance 
London Limited should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if 
he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1920517