K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) didnt provide him with clear 
information in relation  to his employee  share  scheme which they administered.
Mr B has been helped with this complaint  by a representative. But for ease of reading,  Ill 
mostly only refer to Mr B himself. 
background
Mr B was employed by a company  that Ill refer to as S. He took part in their employee 
share scheme which is administered by YBS.
In late 2018 and early  2019 there  were  several  phone conversations between  Mr B and 
YBS. These related  to Mr Bs share scheme accounts and information such as maturity  
dates and values  were discussed.
On 18 February 2019 S informed YBS that Mr B was due to leave their employment on 
8 March 2019. In a letter dated 21 February 2019 YBS wrote to Mr B and explained his 
options. The letter said his option  to buy shares within the scheme would expire on 
8 March 2019. Mr B says he didnt receive  this letter.
Mr B didnt provide  instructions to YBS to exercise his right to buy shares within the scheme. 
So, in line with the schemes  terms and conditions, Mr B lost his right to buy shares within 
the scheme. 
Being unhappy with this Mr B complained and YBS responded. In summary they said:
Mr B hadnt mentioned in any of his phone  calls that he was due to leave Ss 
employment;
Theyd written to him promptly and set out the options (including the deadline) when 
informed by S that he was leaving.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this and referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators  
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She concluded that:
Prior to being notified, YBS couldnt have known  Mr B was due to leave Ss 
employment and Mr B didnt mention this in the phone calls. So they had no reason 
to explain what happens in those circumstances.  
The evidence showed YBSs  letter dated  21 February 2019 had been correctly  
dispatched. So, whilst it was unfortunate this didnt safely  arrive  YBS couldnt be 
held responsible for that. 
She felt the information provided  by YBS was sufficiently clear  to explain what  would 
happen if Mr B left Ss employment  without exercising his options within  the scheme. 
Mr B doesnt  accept this. He disagrees that YBS did enough to make him aware of his 
options and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN15089412Ive reviewed our investigators view on Mr Bs complaint  and I agree with what  was said and 
for the same reasons.  So, I wont repeat everything  in detail here. But my main reasons for 
not upholding this complaint are as follows:
Im satisfied  YBS promptly wrote  to Mr B and clearly explained his options once they 
were on notice that Mr B was due to leave Ss employment. I dont think  it would be 
fair to hold YBS liable for the consequences of the letter not arriving  safely. 
YBS provided clear information  at the start of the scheme  warning that the option 
may lapse if Mr B left after the schemes maturity date.
More recently (in October 2018) YBS provided a link to the schemes maturity  booklet 
which says: If you stop being employed  by [S] or an associated company after the 
maturity date and you havent exercised your Option before you leave, you will 
automatically lose your Option to buy shares
So overall, I dont  think there is evidence to support that YBS acted outside  the terms and 
conditions of the scheme or that they treated Mr B unfairly. Im satisfied they provided 
sufficient information  to Mr B about  his options. So, Im not going  to tell them to do anything 
further to resolve  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1508941