K820x#14Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) incorrectly reported information  which  
impacted his credit score and loaded a Cifas  marker  against  him.
Background
In March 2014 Mr A received a cheque  into his BoS account. Shortly  after the deposit  of the 
cheque, a payment and a cash withdrawal  were made from the account  using the card and 
PIN. After these transactions were  made,  the cheque was reported  as fraudulent and the 
credit was removed from the account.
BoS decided to close Mr As account and load a Cifas  marker against his name. But as a 
cash withdrawal and card payment had been made on the account, after the cheque  had 
been credited,  the account  fell into arrears. BoS decided when closing the account to write 
off the arrears due to Mr As age at the time.
Mr A got in touch with BoS after the account  was closed and told it that his card was lost, but 
as he didnt use the account  frequently,  he was unaware of when the loss occurred. He 
denied any involvement  in the deposit  of the cheque or subsequent usage  and told BoS that 
he was unaware  of how someone used the card as no one knew  his PIN.
Mr A contacted BoS again in February  2019 to make a complaint as he was unhappy the 
debt and a default were  reported to credit  reference agencies as a result of the arrears, he 
said that this had negatively impacted his credit  score. He also said that on a number of 
occasions he chose  not to apply  for financial services because  hed been told his credit 
score meant hed be rejected.
BoS looked into Mr As complaint and agreed  that it had incorrectly  reported the debt and 
default to credit reference agencies as the debt should have been written off. It rectified  this 
by removing any reporting of debt from Mr As credit file. It also offered him £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience its error had caused.
It added that the Cifas  marker was loaded  correctly as there didnt appear to be any point of 
compromise for Mr As PIN, which was used  to authenticate the payment and withdrawal 
after the cheque  had entered the account.
Mr A accepted BoSs offer, but he was unhappy with the amount of compensation it offered 
him. He said that hed suffered mental  health  problems  as a result  of the error and had been 
refused credit and bank  accounts as a result. BoS didnt agree. It said that Mr A hadnt  
brought the error  to its attention until 2019, so it thought that hed have brought his complaint  
sooner had this been the case. Mr A wasnt happy  with BoSs response, so he brought  his 
complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint but agreed that the £200 paid was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. They agreed that Mr A would likely have brought his 
complaint sooner if there  had been such a significant impact.  They  also said that Mr A was 
unable to provide  any evidence of rejected or failed applications as a result of the impact  to 
his credit score. They added that our service  couldnt award compensation for any potential  
impact if Mr A hadnt  applied for financial products.
Ref: DRN11056782They also looked  into the Cifas loading against  Mr A and thought this was applied fairly. 
They agreed that there didnt appear  to be a point of compromise for Mr As PIN as he said 
this wasnt shared with anyone  or written down.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators assessment. He said that the impact  on him warranted a 
higher compensation payment as he had been denied  credit applications and a bank account. 
He said this had a significant impact  on his mental  health as a result.  As Mr A disagreed with 
the investigators assessment, the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS has already  admitted its error in failing to write  off the debt on the account and that it 
incorrectly reported information to credit reference agencies about  Mr A. So Ive gone  on to 
consider if the compensation paid was reasonable in the circumstances, and if the Cifas 
marker applied against  Mr As name  was done so fairly.
Mr A has been asked on a number  of occasions to supply evidence  of the impact this error  
had caused him. This is because Mr A has  since coming to our service  informed us that 
he had in fact applied for a loan and a bank account;  both of which  were unsuccessful. But 
as Mr A hasnt been able to provide any evidence of his failed applications, I cant 
reasonably expect BoS to compensate him for the impact of this. Ive also considered that it 
was almost five years  since the error,  so I think had this impacted Mr A during this period 
then he would have  likely  brought this to the attention of BoS sooner.
Mr A has asked  our service to consider  potential  applications  he would have made had he 
not been discouraged by his credit score. But its impossible to know  for sure whether these 
hypothetical applications wouldve been successful or not and so any compensation 
awarded would merely  be speculative.  I dont think it would  be reasonable to expect BoS to 
compensate him on that basis.
Ive also considered the Cifas marker loaded  against  Mr As name following an investigation  
by BoS. This Cifas  marker  has now been removed from Mr As name as the six-year loading 
came to its end in April 2020,  but Ive gone  on to consider if this was applied  fairly in the 
circumstances and if this impacted  Mr A in any way.
Due to the length of time that has passed, the evidence available  is limited. BoS have  
provided contact notes at the time of the fraudulent account usage. This shows that Mr A 
was questioned in relation to the incident  and hed told BoS that hed lost his card.  But he 
couldnt be specific as to when the card was lost as the account wasnt  used frequently. He 
told BoS that the PIN for the card wasnt known to any person  other than him and 
additionally wasnt written  down. He also denied ever visiting  the area where the cheque was 
deposited and the transactions were  made  following its deposit.
Whilst I do take into account Mr As age at the time, I do think that the theft of his card and 
use of his PIN by an unknown third party is an unlikely scenario.
Ref: DRN11056783Mr A has told us that he isnt familiar with the area his card was used and wasnt  allowed to 
leave the area he resided in. Taking this into consideration, the thief would likely have 
obtained the card from the area Mr A was in and travelled a considerable distance to the area 
where the card was used; and this is if the card was used  on the same day it was stolen.
Considering patterns we tend to see from fraudsters   or even opportunists  I dont think its 
likely that they would have waited this long to use the card and account.  I say this as 
fraudsters generally  try to use stolen  cards and accounts as quickly  as possible knowing  that 
their access  will be blocked as soon  as the cardholder is alerted to its loss and informs their 
bank. So the lack of urgency to use the account would suggest that its likely the person 
using the account knew they werent at risk of this.
I also find this scenario unlikely as Mr A has informed our service  that he has never told any 
other person of his PIN; and didnt have this written down. This would mean that an unknown 
third party would have  needed to guess  his four-digit PIN in order  to access  the account. 
Considering the number  of potential combinations, I think this is unlikely. 
When taking the above into account I think there  is likely more to the situation than Mr A has 
disclosed. Mr A was very young at the time of the incident and would have been vulnerable 
due to this. But as hes informed BoS and our service that hed lost his card and had not 
provided access to his account  to anyone else, I cant say that this was likely  a situation 
where he was taken advantage of.
Due to all the reasons  above, I do feel that the loading was fair in these circumstances. But 
even if I had agreed with Mr As opinion that the loading was made incorrectly, I still think 
that the impact  of this would be similar  to that of the debt and default incorrectly  reported  for 
the reasons Ive outlined above.
I do however accept that Mr A has been impacted emotionally by the discovery of the error 
BoS made in reporting the debt and default. And the £200  offered by BoS does fairly reflect  
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by this. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I find that the £200  offered  by Bank  of Scotland  plc is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. If this hasnt  yet been paid to Mr A, then Bank  of Scotland  
plc should go ahead  and do this now.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2020.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1105678