K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2001. The policy  was taken  out at the 
same time as Mr C applied for an Egg credit  card. It gave him accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
When Mr C applied for the Egg credit card online he ticked a box on the screen 
indicating he wanted to take out PPI, agreeing with the statement that by ticking the 
box he was confirming  hed read and agreed to the terms and conditions of the PPI. 
And the options  to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence  on the 
screen. So, I think Canada Square  Operations made  it clear to Mr C the PPI was 
optional and he agreed to take it out.  
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so it didnt  have to 
check if it was suitable  for him. It was up to Mr C to decide whether the policy  was 
right for him, bearing in mind his ability to make  his credit card repayments  if he was 
sick or lost his job. 
Its possible Canada Square  Operations didnt give Mr C all the information about  the 
PPI that he needed  before he made his decision.  But Mr C chose to take out the 
policy and so appears to have  wanted  this type of cover. He wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions or limitations.  Mr Cs representative argues that as Mr C had savings 
and good sick pay its clear he would have declined  the policy if the cost versus 
benefit was pointed out to him. But I disagree. This policy was fairly priced in the 
market and offered  a competitive benefit level. It wouldve paid out in addition to any 
work benefits and allowed Mr C to use his savings to cover other living  costs whilst  
not working, or to keep them intact for his future  needs. And Ive seen no evidence  it 
was unaffordable.  So I think  it unlikely  Mr C wouldve  made a different decision  if 
better information had been provided.  
It follows that I dont think Mr C has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
Ref: DRN15715202my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1571520