K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs C complain that Lloyds  Bank  Plc (Lloyds trading  at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr W and Mrs C took out a further  advance  in April 2000 and also took out an MPPI policy 
that covered Mr M only against accidents,  sickness and unemployment.  They arranged the 
further advance  and insurance  in a meeting in one of Lloyds branches.  They took out 
another further advance in November 2002 and also took out at MPPI  policy  in Mr Ws name  
only. This was also arranged in a branch.
Mr W and Mrs C believe Lloyds mis-sold  the policies sold in 2000  and 2002. They  say that 
on both occasions  they were  told they had to have PPI. They say they had adequate means 
of making repayments  so PPI was of no use to them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr W and Mrs C dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr W and Mrs Cs complaint for the following reasons:
Mr W and Mrs C have said Lloyds told them they had to have  PPI in both sales  but their 
recollections about this and the meetings are not detailed. This is understandable due to 
the amount of time that has passed  since the date of each sale. So I have needed to 
look at the sales  documentation provided from the time of the meetings to obtain an 
understanding as to what more likely  happened.
I think, after considering the documentation  provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies  in 2000 and in 2002, it is more likely that Mr W and Mrs C were advised it 
was a good idea to have the insurance  to protect  their repayments,  and they took the 
policies in 2000 and in 2002 on that advice.
I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policies  were  presented as optional. I can see that in both sales,  when  the 
separate application  form was being  completed  and signed by Mr W (as the sole policy 
holder), that the MPPI policy was presented on this form as an optional requirement. On 
balance, when  considering the information  in front of me, I am persuaded                     
Mr W and Mrs C were given a choice to have the MPPI  policy in 2000  and again  in 
2002.
Ref: DRN17103202Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI policies on each occasion to Mr W, but 
it doesnt look as if either  one was unsuitable  for him based  on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time of each sale. He says had 6 months full and 6 months half sick 
pay but the benefits provided by either policy would have been of use to him in a time of 
need. Having  each policy in place would mean Mr W could use any provisions  to cover 
other expenses. I think, on balance, Mr W would have found the cover the policies 
provided useful  for any extended period of unemployment or sickness.   
I can also see no other reasons such as a significant or restrictive term that would make 
either policy unsuitable either in 2000 or in 2002.
I cannot be sure if Mr W and Mrs C would have received the costs of the policies clearly  
in the meetings  they had but even if they had received  all the information on this, I dont 
think it would have  changed their mind to have the cover for the reasons that I have 
already given. The MPPI policies were reasonably priced  compared  to similar policies 
available at the time and to the monthly repayment. And Mr W and Mrs C could have 
cancelled the MPPI  policies if either  did become unaffordable.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policies  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr W and Mrs C wouldve been  affected  by any of this based on what I have 
already concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W and Mrs C, but on balance,  I do not 
uphold their complaint  for the reasons  that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr W and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1710320