K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained that Union Reiseversicherung AG have  not settled a claim
made under their travel  insurance  policy for medical expenses  for Mrs K.
background
Whilst on holiday in the USA in 2017  Mrs K was admitted to hospital  and incurred medical
expenses. She submitted a claim  which  was accepted, but URV only settled it in part.
URV passed the medical bills from four providers to its cost containment team.  The total was
$28,515. For ease  of reading all references  to URV include its cost containment  team.
URV said the amount it paid the medical care providers, totalling $2164, is reasonable. It 
refused to cover the full balance  for the various providers who have submitted bills saying 
that bills are not negotiated at any point.
Unhappy, and being pursued by a debt collector on behalf of the hospital directly,  Mr and
Mrs K referred their complaint here. Our investigator didnt find that URV had taken into
account Mr and Mrs Ks interests  in defending  the claim or that it had treated them fairly. She
recommended that URV pay the outstanding bills from all four providers so that the debt was
cleared.
URV maintained that the amounts that it had paid were reasonable. It said that it will not pay
costs that are grossly  excessive or generated through fraudulent activity simply as a means
to stop the actions of debt collectors  deliberately  targeting their customers in lieu of
negotiating a reasonable settlement.
URV indicated that the amounts it costs the hospital  to provide the treatment Mrs K had
totalled $492.72, according  to the US Congressional  committee  which  set these rates.  It
added that it accepts that it should make the absolute protection  it offered clearer  to any
individuals not satisfied by their usual  reassurance. Where they havent done  so URV
accepted that distress  may have been caused  and an award  to reflect  this might be
appropriate.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 April 2019. Ill repeat my provisional findings here:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances. Im minded to uphold  this complaint and award
compensation to Mr and Mrs K. Ill explain why.
The regulatory background and good industry  practice
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses (Principles), which URV must  follow, including:
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat
them fairly.
Principle 8 - A firm must  manage  conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and
its customers and between a customer and another client .
Ref: DRN19689262The relevant  regulations  also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide,  published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities  of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules mean for providers and
distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the impact of
their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the service being
provided.
Ive also taken into account what I consider having  been good industry practice  at the time
of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance - and their agents - to engage
diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over medical  bills by actively
seeking a compromise  or adjudication of their bills. That includes actively engaging  in
negotiation.
The insurance policy
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ks policy  say:
we are entitled to take over any rights in the defence or settlement of any claim and to take
proceedings in your name for our benefit against  any other party
So its for URV to take over the conduct  of a claim against its policyholders.  But it has a
responsibility to act in good faith when  it takes over the defence or settlement of a claim.
This means  having  regard to Mr and Mrs Ks interests as well as its own. This is embodied in
URVs regulatory responsibilities, as set out above.
Mrs Ks claim
URV paid the medical providers involved in Mrs Ks treatment  within  two months of her
submitting her claim in 2017. It paid what it assessed to be reasonable based on the cost
rate as determined by the US Congress plus an uplift. I cant say whether the amounts paid
were reasonable  the guidelines  are extensive and technical. But its clear that the sums
paid were far below  what the providers were charging, in particular the hospital.
URV advised Mrs K at the time that it substantially  disputed the debt. I understand that URV
doesnt want to pay exaggerated costs and its not difficult to understand why. But URV
would have been aware that it was unlikely that the providers would accept those payments
in settlement of their invoices. So I would have expected to see evidence that URV
attempted to carry out cost containment negotiations, but there is no such evidence  here.
Alternatively, URV could  have sought  to have the proper amount of the bill ascertained  by a
dispute resolution process such as by mediation,  arbitration or litigation. Again, there is no
evidence that URV  has taken any steps of that kind. Rather, notwithstanding  the fact that it
was aware the total settlement was less than 10% of the amount invoiced, it appears  to have
considered the matter  settled.
Ref: DRN19689263Unsurprisingly at least one of the providers didnt.  The hospital,  who had received $1506.16
in settlement of its account placed  the matter in the hands of a debt collection agency.  The
outstanding amount they were claiming was $22,780.84. They  contacted Mrs K directly and
informed her that she was responsible for the charges.  Mrs K was at first pacified by URVs
responses to her, but when  the demands  continued  she contacted our service. She was very
anxious and worried.  She was also concerned about the implications of the debt as she had
a family  holiday booked to the USA.
In its final response to Mrs K, URV  advised  that when dealing  with hospitals in the United
States negotiation of bills is essential  But URV  still didnt enter into negotiations in order
to settle the debt. I understand  it advised Mrs K that it had had many  dealings with the agent
representing the hospital over the years  and the agent had never taken further  action. URV
later confirmed if the hospital can send additional information  to them  which proves an error
has been made and that what they have  charged  is reasonable,  a further payment will be
made and (Mrs K) will not be involved.  However as it stands no further payments will be
made.
I find the fact that URV made no attempt to negotiate with the hospital or its agent  and no
other attempt to have  the amount of the debt ascertained by any form of dispute  resolution
process, contrary to both the regulatory  guidance  and good industry practice. In addition  it
shows no regard for Mrs Ks interests.  And although Mr and Mrs K havent  been pursued by
the other providers as far as I am aware, URV  havent demonstrated  that those providers
have accepted the payments made in final settlement of their bills either.
Despite its assurances to her, URV was aware  that Mrs K was being pursued  by a debt
collector on behalf of the hospital but even then took no action to reach a settlement or have
the amount of that debt determined. And as Ive noted above, this caused  Mrs K distress.
For the reasons  I gave  I wasnt persuaded that URV has acted  fairly  and reasonably  in the
way in which its taken  over the handling of the defence or settlement of the healthcare
providers potential claims against  Mrs K. I explained this in further detail:
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may have been possible for URV to
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the healthcare  providers and in particular
the hospital, and agree a figure less than the outstanding amount. This would have spared
Mr and Mrs K worry and anxiety.
URV has recently acknowledged  that it may not have properly reassured Mr and Mrs K or
recognised the impact  this has had on them. But I think  its failing  to date goes further  than
that. It has also conducted the settlement  and defence of the claim in a manner that has
failed to pay due regard to the interests  of Mr and Mrs K and this has contributed  to their
worry.
Whilst I have seriously considered directing  URV to pay the hospital bill in full, so as to bring
this matter to conclusion, I am conscious that the bill is a sizeable one and that it may be that
URV has grounds for obtaining a significant  reduction (although  it hasnt provided anything
like enough  evidence supporting its position for me to reach any finding to that effect). On
balance, I dont think that the stage  has yet been  reached in URVs handling of this claim
where I should direct it to pay this bill in full. I consider that it is fair and reasonable to give
URV a further opportunity to handle the negotiation or ascertainment of the debt more
appropriately than it has so far in order to fix and pay Mrs Ks liability. With the other
Ref: DRN19689264providers URV has not demonstrated that the payments made  have been  accepted  in
settlement of the bills. It may be able to do so. So I intend to limit my award in respect of
URVs mishandling of the matter up to the present date to monetary redress for the damage.
Im satisfied that compensation is due for the worry that this matter  has caused Mr and 
Mrs K. I think the sum of £500 fairly compensates them for the trouble and upset caused to 
them by URVs handling of the claim so far  that is for its conduct up until the date of this
decision.
However, URVs duties in relation to its handing of Mrs Ks claim dont end with this decision,
as the matter of the outstanding bills remains live. The hospital  will doubtless  continue to
seek payment of its bill and it remains URVs responsibility to take active steps to resolve
this matter expediently and in a manner that has due regard to Mr and Mrs Ks interests  and
treats them fairly. In the interests of all concerned, I urge URV to take its continuing duties to
Mr and Mrs K very seriously.
Because URVs duties  continue, the manner in which  it handles  the claim hereafter may give
Mr and Mrs K grounds for a further complaint to this service.
In particular, if after the date of this decision URV  doesnt take active  steps to ascertain the
amount of the debts and discharge any outstanding  bills in a fair and reasonable manner,
such future unreasonable conduct is very likely  to result in further worry for Mr and Mrs K
and in a further complaint to this service. (Any such further complaint would have to be
based upon URVs conduct of the claim after the date of this decision, as opposed to during
the period that I have considered.) I hope that this will not occur,  as the intention  behind my
decision is to give it another chance  to prosecute its settlement or defence  of the debts
diligently. If there are further failings,  URV  may be at heightened risk (amongst other things)
of receiving a direction  to pay the bills in full. But that would be a matter  for a different
ombudsman to decide in all the circumstances.
My provisional decision was to uphold the complaint and to require URV to pay Mr and 
Mrs K £500  as compensation for the trouble and upset caused to the by URVs conduct to 
date.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional findings.  URV  wanted  to provide a further  explanation 
for its position. In summary it said:
Insurers will safeguard themselves against medical providers inflating medical 
charges. Medical  providers can charge  multiples of what they should after the 
treatment has been administered. This is particularly evident in areas with high 
volume tourism.
Auditing of medical bills is essential  as is receiving the correct account and invoice 
for services and treatment  administered.  Charges raised  can be inflated by 500% or 
sometimes more.
If insurers allow medical facilities to overcharge for the service they provide the price 
of premiums will rise.
The contribution  made  in Mr and Mrs Ks case was audited  and was a fair and 
reasonable settlement in line with USA Government guidelines. URV does not accept  
that the remaining balance should be settled in full and is disputing  this with the 
medical facility.
Ref: DRN19689265Some facilities route their bill to Swiss  debt collectors as there  is limited  regulatory 
control there. However these debt collectors  have no power to do anything in the UK.
It is important  for Mr and Mrs K to know that they have no financial liability for the 
costs for which Mrs K is being pursued. They may receive further correspondence 
from the debt collectors which  they should forward to URV.
These points essentially  repeat  aspects of URVs previous arguments.  Nevertheless URV  
understood and appreciated that it must be alarming for Mr and Mrs K to receive chasers  for 
payments which  remain  outstanding. With this in mind it agreed  to pay the compensation 
indicated in my provisional decision and to contact the medical  facility  in order  to negotiate 
the medical bill that remains outstanding.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note URVs comments and am grateful to URV for indicating  that it agrees to the proposed  
compensation will now contact the medical  facility in order  to negotiate the medical  bill that 
remains outstanding.  I hope the matter can be resolved expediently. 
In light of both parties acceptance of the redress that I proposed, URVs reiteration  of its 
position, and its stated intention to negotiate  the bill, I see no reason  to depart from my 
provisional findings.  I still consider it is fair and reasonable  for URV to pay Mr and Mrs K 
£500 by way of financial  compensation for their distress and inconvenience. I again   
emphasise, that award is for the manner of URVs handling of their claim so far (by which I 
now mean, up to the date of this final decision).  
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay 
Mr and Mrs K £500 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1968926