K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 2000. He applied for the credit card and PPI online.  
At the time,  Mr W was employed in IT. Mr W has told us he was entitled to 12 months or 
more sick pay and had around £500 in saving. Mr W has said he was in good health at the 
time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment, death  and serious 
illness  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Ws credit  
card balance in the event  of a successful claim for accident and sickness or unemployment. 
At the time,  it cost 74p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would 
continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Mr Ws representative made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I wont restate them all here, but Ive read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mr Ws representative said:
Egg failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, the complaint should be upheld.  
The true costs of the policy, including interest, werent disclosed; and
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing valuable  cover,  but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope 
of the cover meant this was untrue.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued 
my provisional decision in September 2019, explaining why I wasnt  intending to uphold the 
complaint about  the mis-sale. But I also said why I thought Eggs  offer to pay back  to Mr W 
any commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium was fair in the 
circumstances.  I  asked  both parties  to respond with any further comments or evidence  
before I reached my final outcome. 
Both parties  have confirmed they have received my findings. Egg had nothing further to add. 
Mr Ws representative replied saying that the option  to select the policy had been pre-
populated to add the PPI to his account.  So he wasnt given an opportunity to decline to take 
the PPI. 
my findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint, Ive thought carefully  about  all the 
evidence and arguments that have  been  given to me, in order  to decide what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN14444982relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor are the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself started  before April 2007 and was still running in April 2008 and 
beyond. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgement in Plevin  about s.140  of that Act and the rules  and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgement  are applicable. Ill return to this issue later in the 
decision.
There was an industry  code in existence  at that time, which  Im satisfied is applicable to my 
consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In 
particular, The Association  of British Insurers General Insurance Business  Code  of Practice  
for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI, I consider  
these publications  to be indicative of the standards of good practice  expected of 
intermediaries like Egg at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these  codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws 
case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence);  the law relating to the utmost  duty of good  
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Egg 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ws complaint. 
Ref: DRN14444983key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Egg gave advice, whether it advised Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Egg gave  Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above alongside all of the information  provided by both Mr 
W and Egg, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Egg had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen sample screenshots that Im satisfied Mr W would have seen when he applied  for 
his credit card. These allowed him to select whether he wanted to include PPI with his card 
or not and the process wouldve required an option to be selected before an applicant 
couldve moved on to the next section. And the fact the PPI was added  to Mr Ws account  
makes me think its more likely he selected  to add the policy.
I have noted Mr Ws representatives comments about the option to select  the PPI being pre-
populated.
In our experience of how these types of policies were sold at the time, an applicant would 
have to actively select yes or no to whether they wanted the PPI or not before continuing  
with the credit card application. Ive not seen enough evidence  to persuade me that 
something different  happened in Mr Ws case. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its likely  that Egg presented  the policy to Mr W as 
being optional  and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Egg provide advice?
Mr W cant remember whether Egg provided  advice  or not. Egg says it didnt provide advice 
during this sale. From what  I know about sales such as this, Egg didnt  usually provide 
personal recommendations and nothing Ive been given makes me think  Egg did anything  
differently in Mr Ws case. So I dont think Egg provided advice. 
Ref: DRN14444984This means  Egg didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr W. Instead,  it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr W to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Ive seen screenshots Egg says Mr W would have seen, together with the policy terms and 
conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities   applied to policies like Mr Ws. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr W at the time, I dont think  Egg gave Mr W the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
Egg says this sale took place online. Mr W thinks it took place via a postal application. 
Looking at the information that has been  provided  by Egg, it seems like this was an online 
application as it has provided a copy of its records which show the information  that was 
keyed in at the time of the application.  
From the copy of the screenshots,  I can see that Egg described the PPI policy as providing 
cover against unemployment,  accidents,  sickness, death and serious illness. It also informed 
Mr W that the policy helped cover his card repayments at the cost of 59p per £100 of his 
monthly statement  balance.
The information provided would have given Mr W a broad  sense of what  the policy  covered.  
But it was Eggs responsibility to draw to Mr Ws attention the important  information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
Im not persuaded Egg did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr W, including the need to maintain premiums  during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that Egg adequately drew to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Egg gave Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  to the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
what effect did Eggs  shortcomings have  on Mr W? To what extent  did Mr W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Egg didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr W suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr W would have still 
taken out the policy,  had Egg done  things properly. 
Ref: DRN14444985Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider  that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr W thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr W has suffered  any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr W ought reasonably to have known hed have to pay 
something for the PPI and that it would cover 10% of his outstanding balance  this was 
likely set out on the screens hed have seen when he applied  for the policy.  I accept that Egg 
didnt make clear the ongoing cost information  or that the policy limited the number of 
monthly benefit payments to 12 per claim.  But the policy would help reduce his outgoings at 
a difficult time and might potentially help preserve Mr Ws sick pay/savings for other use. In 
addition, the policy would  more than cover  the contractual monthly minimum payment of 2% 
and had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in full in certain circumstances. 
Mr W says he would have received 12 months full sick pay from his employer. Mr W also 
says that he had some savings at the time, as well as a life insurance policy  and critical 
illness cover.  
Ive thought carefully about what hes said, but its very unusual  for an employer  to provide 
12 months full sick pay
For a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out 10% of the outstanding balance  of the 
credit card for up to 12 months alongside  any employee benefits  Mr W received. I think its 
likely Mr W was entitled to some  sick pay. But in my experience I think its unlikely he would 
have received the level of sick pay hes told us he was entitled  to. And as the policy  would 
have paid out alongside any sick pay he did get, it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. 
Mr W said he had critical illness  and life cover. Life cover will only pay out if Mr W passed 
away, and critical illness  policies usually  only pay out a lump sum in the event of specific 
severe illnesses. By contrast, Mr W couldve claimed on the PPI for most  conditions, as long 
as they prevented him from working.  And the PPI wouldve  paid out in addition  to any benefit 
received from the critical illness policy, had he need  to claim on both. 
So while Mr W didnt  know some things, the ultimate  position  in the event of a successful 
claim was not dissimilar  to what he would reasonably have thought from the information  he 
based his decision  to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which treatment or 
advice had been suggested in the 12 months prior to the start of the policy  and had 
Ref: DRN14444986recurred within 24 months after the start,  or had been diagnosed or led him to 
experience significant and substantive symptoms during the same periods; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr W be unable to 
do his own work,  or other work that his experience, education or training would allow. 
I do accept that theres a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr W pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy.  
For example, back pain and mental health  conditions are common  problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely hed have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  I also havent 
seen any evidence to suggest hed have  been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  
for example, Mr W didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent 
employment. 
I still think Mr W had some good reasons  to take the policy out. The evidence about  Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. 
He was eligible  for its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations  and 
exclusions, could  have proved valuable to him should the insured risks have become a 
reality. 
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his job and 
any other job which, in the insurers view, he might  reasonably be qualified  for, it might have 
played into his thinking about  what hed have done. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although its possible  he may not have been overly concerned given that 
if Mr W was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances  that hed 
be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding the employment benefits hed likely have received and his 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
In saying that, Ive taken  into account what Mr W has said about the following paragraph in 
the terms and conditions of the policy:
The Insurer may at any time change any term of condition of this Policy including  the 
premium payable by giving not less than 30 days written notice of such change  to 
You at Your  last known  address.
Ref: DRN14444987In this case the complaint  is against the seller  of the policy, Egg, whos also the lender, but 
who is not the insurer. The right to vary the cover and premium is a right that has been put 
into the contract by the insurer and can only be exercised by the insurer.  So what  the insurer 
can and cant do and whether its acted unfairly or not isnt something  I can consider here. My 
consideration in this case is whether  Egg acted fairly and reasonably towards  Mr W when  it 
sold him the policy. And if it did not, whether and to what extent I think  hes lost out as a 
result.
Ive therefore  considered  whether Egg should  have  done more  to clearly bring the 
contractual term about the insurers right to unilaterally vary the cover and the premium to 
Mr Ws attention.  And, having done so, I think it should have done  more. I think this was a 
significant term. So I think Mr W would have  wanted to know  about this. Because Mr W 
wasnt clearly  told, I dont think  Egg acted fairly and reasonably towards  him.
But even if Egg had done more to highlight the term clearly  to Mr W, I dont think  this would 
have made  a difference to his decision to buy the PPI for the reasons Ive already 
explained.
Im also mindful that the policy terms and conditions go on to give both parties the right to 
terminate the policy  with 30 days notice at any time throughout the duration of the 
contract. So, as and when any new terms were proposed by the insurer,  Mr W had a 
reasonable amount of time to consider whether he wanted  to continue with the policy. 
If Mr W didnt like any newly proposed terms and conditions, he could have  chosen  not to 
accept them and sought cover elsewhere  if he still wanted this type of cover.  
So overall, while I accept Egg should have done more  to bring  the above paragraph from the 
terms and conditions to Mr Ws attention,  for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think  
hed have been put off buying the policy if Egg had done more.
While the above  policy term  together with some  or all of the other  policy terms Mr W has 
highlighted  could  well be considered to be unfair, as I say it would be the insurer  that 
would seek to rely on them in assessing  any claims and not Egg. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks Egg misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of Eggs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Egg failed to act fairly  
and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt say in the information  it provided  but 
because the overall  information Egg gave  Mr W, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet 
the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2000  when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Taking all of this into account,  even  if Mr W had been given clear information, I still think  he 
wouldve bought  the policy. 
The above  means Egg doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But Egg 
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
 so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN14444988To put that right, Eggs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in this case.
what Egg needs to do
Egg has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  Egg should also pay back to Mr W any extra interest he paid because of 
that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr W the difference between  
what Mr W owes and what  he would have owed if the commission and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay Mr W 8%* simple  interest  
if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats,  in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons Ive set out 
above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont find that the PPI policy 
was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1444498