K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in February 2005. The policy  was 
added to Ms Bs credit card account  when she applied  for the card in person. The policy  cost 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following  a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months. The 
policy was cancelled in October 2009  and the credit  card account was charged off in April 
2010.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Halifax made Ms B aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. Ive seen a copy  of the application form and note that the option  of PPI was 
checked and the application form was signed by Ms B. Ive taken note of the fact that 
the application form was pre-populated, but on the basis  that this was an advised sale,  
and was conducted in a branch, face to face,  I think its reasonable to assume  that a 
discussion took place.  And I think that the form, including  Ms Bs personal details, was 
typed because the form was completed  on-screen during that discussion. Moreover, as 
this was a monthly policy  it wouldve appeared on Ms Bs monthly credit card 
statements  so I think she wouldve queried it in 2005 if it had been added to her 
account without  either her knowledge or her consent.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because  Ms B 
wasnt caught by any of the exclusions or limitations which would have made the policy 
less useful for her, such as being self-employed or having a pre-existing medical 
condition. Whilst Ms B had some  sick pay; six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay, I believe the policy provided her with a sufficient benefit, which outweighed its 
cost.
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for her if she 
wasnt working because  of an accident, sickness or unemployment as she had limited 
work benefits  this policy wouldve  paid out in addition to these.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN18961952Ive thought about everything Ms B has said, but these points dont change my decision. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Ms B 
paid for it. But Halifax  has already given Ms B back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  
it needs to do anything more. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1896195