K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed his account and reported  adverse 
information on his credit file.
background
Mr M became involved in an online trading scheme.  He thought  he was dealing  in 
cryptocurrency. And everything was legitimate. But the scheme  turned  out to be a scam  and 
Santander blocked Mr Ms account.  Mr M said he was threatened not to go to the police and 
was frightened for his safety. 
When Santander closed  his account Mr M sent the bank  a copy of the messages hed 
received. But Santander  rejected his appeal. And he now has to repay his outstanding 
balance. Mr M wants Santander to accept he was an innocent victim of a scam. Hed like his 
banking facilities restored  and any adverse  information removed  from his credit file.
Santander said itd closed Mr Ms account  following an investigation. Itd considered Mr Ms 
response but rejected his appeal. Although Mr M had provided an explanation  for the credits 
it felt hed placed his account at future risk to the bank. So regrettably Mr M wouldnt be able 
to continue banking  with Santander.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Santanders response. So he contacted  our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She could see Mr M had informed Santander that he 
thought the money had been coming from bitcoin trading. And the bank had accepted his 
explanation that he didnt  know it wasnt legitimate. But she said Santander had made  a 
commercial decision to close  his account. And she didnt think  that was unreasonable  given 
whatd happened. 
She could  see Mr M was making  payments to reduce his outstanding balance. But she didnt 
think Santander had entered  into a formal arrangement  with Mr M. So it was right to report  
what was happening on his account  to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He thought hed reached  an agreement with Santander. And it would put 
a hold on his account while his complaint was investigated. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms distress. He says he unwittingly  became involved in an online 
scam. And its affected his banking facilities and credit report.  So Ive looked  carefully  at 
everything Mr M and Santander  have  said. There are two main issues that Mr M is unhappy 
about. So Ill deal with each in turn.
closure of bank account
Santander accepted Mr Ms explanation of where the payments had come from. But the 
bank felt Mr Ms actions had exposed his account  to a risk. And it wasnt prepared  to accept 
any further risk in the future. So it decided to close Mr Ms account.  
Ref: DRN18992292I appreciate this has caused  Mr M some difficulty. But Santander is entitled to take the 
commercial decision not to continue its banking relationship with Mr M  just as Mr M can 
decide to take his account to another bank.  And given whats happened I cant  say 
Santander has acted  unreasonably.
credit file information
Because Santander closed Mr Ms account he had to repay  his outstanding balance. And he 
thought Santander had placed a hold on his account while he was dealing  with the matter. 
Mr M said if hed known  Santander was going to immediately affect his credit file hed have 
made other arrangements.
Ive listened to Mr Ms calls to Santander.  He wanted to pay £50 each month to clear his 
outstanding balance - that was how much he could  afford.  But Santander said it couldnt  put 
an arrangement into place because it would take too long. So Mr M asked Santander to put 
his account on hold while our service  looked  into the matter. Santander agreed and 
explained it wouldnt default his account  while  it was on hold. 
Ive not heard anything during the conversation about reporting  or any discussion of 
Mr Ms credit file. And normally  when an account is put on hold that means the bank wouldnt 
charge any additional interest or fees or put it into default during that period.
But Mr M still had an outstanding balance. And Santander had a responsibility to report  how 
the account was being  managed  to the credit  reference agencies. Mr M wasnt  able to clear 
the balance immediately. So I cant really say Santander has done anything  wrong  in 
reporting the situation. Itd explained  it couldnt  enter  into an arrangement because the 
affordable payments were too low. So it wouldnt be able to report  that on his file.
I realise Mr M feels Santander didnt make  him aware of any detrimental  impact on his credit 
file. And the result  is the same as if hed not spoken  to Santander at all. But if Mr M hadnt  
spoken to the bank  it was possible his account  wouldve  been  placed in default.  And the 
default wouldve  been recorded on his credit file. And I think that wouldve been  a worse 
outcome for Mr M.
I do sympathise with the situation Mr M finds himself  in. But based on what  Ive seen I cant 
really say Santander acted unreasonably  in deciding to end its banking relationship with 
Mr M. And unfortunately that meant Mr M became immediately liable for his outstanding  
balance. 
While I accept Mr M feels Santander  shouldve explained what would happen to his credit file 
I dont think the bank has done anything  wrong in reporting what  the current situation  is. So I 
wont be asking Santander  to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN18992293Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1899229