K821x#15complaint
This case is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. Ms J says 
Santander UK plc mis-sold her this policy in 2004,  when she was taking out a further 
advance on a mortgage. 
The MPPI covered  Ms J in the event of losing her job or being unable  to work. 
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this complaint said they thought  it should  be upheld because  
Ms J had a pre-existing medical at the time of the sale.  The adjudicator thought that this 
would have made claiming under  the policy quite difficult.
Santander didnt  agree with this so the complaint has been passed  to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this, Im upholding  Ms Js complaint. 
Santander says it advised Ms J during  the course  of the sale. This means  it had a duty to 
discuss Ms Js situation with her to establish the suitability  of what it was recommending she 
should buy. 
I think any reasonable assessment of Ms Js health  situation would have established  she 
hadnt been very well for some time. At a relatively young age shed developed a serious 
illness which  required a major operation. Although  this was in 1999, a further  condition  
materialised as a direct  result of the operation and Ms Js health suffered for several more 
years.
Ive personally checked  with Ms J and been given evidence  that she needed on-going  
medical support,  medication and visits to the doctor right up until the time she took out this 
MPPI policy in 2004 and indeed beyond.  
So I dont  think the MPPI  was suitable  for Ms J because the policy  rules said she wouldnt be 
covered for any condition you had at the start date, or received treatment or advice for in 
the 12 months before the start date.
I therefore dont  think making a successful claim for anything associated  with her existing 
illnesses would have  been possible. And although  the policy did say if the claimant  had been 
symptom free for 2 years they could claim  this wasnt  Ms Js circumstances.
Santander had a duty to point out the main things  that MPPI  did and didnt cover  and I 
dont think it did this.
Ref: DRN19049282Given I think the policy wasnt suitable, I next need to think about whether this would have  
changed what Ms J went on to do. I think if Ms J had realised an illness  that she had been  
suffering from for quite  a few years  probably  wasnt going to be covered, she would have  
reconsidered. I think she would have thought the policy  was poor value  for money  not 
something she wanted to have.
Because of this Im upholding Ms Js complaint.  
what I think Santander should do to put matters right 
Santander should put Ms J in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out MPPI. It 
should:
Pay Ms J the amount she paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets the amount 
back. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
If Ms J made  any successful claims under  the MPPI policy. Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Santander to take off tax from this interest. It must give Ms J a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Ms Js complaint. I direct Santander UK plc to 
put matters right as above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1904928