K823xcomplaint
Mr U complains Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly withdrew the indemnity offered by a credit 
protection 
policy. 
background 
Mr U was involved in a car accident in December 2015 which resulted in a total loss of his 
car.
Mr 
U was offered a replacement hire car by a claims management company (CMC) while the 
claim 
was ongoing. The hire car was financed by a credit hire agreement, so Mr U didnt 
have to pay the hire cost upfront. The agreement said the CMC would attempt to recover its 
costs from the third party involved in the accident. 
Mr Us account of the accident was that the third party had turned in front of him whilst he 
was 
driving along the road, causing the collision. So, because Mr U said he wasnt at fault 
for the accident, the CMC also offered him a credit protection policy which was administered 
by the CMC but underwritten by Amtrust. The credit protection policy offered Mr U indemnity 
against any costs that couldnt be recovered from the third party.
The policy was described as;
This 
policy  meets the demands and needs of a driver involved In a road traffic accident 
where 
another party is at least 50% at fault, who will be using the replacement vehicle hire 
and repair services provided by This policy will cover you against the charges for those 
services that are not recovered from the third party that is wholly or partly responsible for 
causing the accident  does not make personal recommendations as to the suitability of the 
policy to individual circumstances
The documentation also went on to define the originating incident as;
A single event causing loss or damage to the Damaged Vehicle within the Territorial Limits 
as 
a result of the negligent act or omission of an identified Third Party where (the CMC) 
deems at inception of this Policy that the loss or damage is completely or at least 50% the 
fault of the Third Party
Mr U agreed to and signed the credit hire agreement and credit protection policy. He was 
provided 
with a hire car between 3 December 2015 and 22 January 2016.
Over the following months the CMC attempted to recover the costs of the credit hire from the 
third party involved in the collision. But the third party didnt accept any fault for the accident 
and wouldnt cover any of the costs of the hire agreement. The third party provided a copy of 
the police accident report which included statements from witnesses to the accident. The 
DRN16805632CMC ultimately concluded Mr U was at fault for the accident. So, they stopped pursuing the 
third partys  insurer  and asked Mr U to pay the credit hire charges, which  were  over £17,000. 
Mr Us credit protection policy with Amtrust provided  cover to indemnify Mr U against the hire 
car charges in the event  the cost couldnt  be recovered from the third party. But Amtrust say 
Mr U was in breach of the terms and conditions of the credit protection policy  and, as a 
result, withdrew the indemnity offered by the policy.  
Mr U wasnt happy and complained to Amtrust that hed been approached for the credit  hire 
charges. 
In its response Amtrust  said,  as the third-party insurers had held Mr U at fault for the 
accident for overtaking vehicles at speed at the junction, it had no alternative but to 
approach Mr U for the costs and withdraw the indemnity offered by the policy.
Mr U employed  a professional representative  who responded to Amtrust  and asked  for 
clarity over the basis of their claim that Mr U had breach the terms of the policy.  Amtrust 
referred to their complaint response  and highlighted several terms and exclusions of the 
policy. They  also included a timeline of events.  
Mr U was unhappy with Amtrusts response  and so brought his complaint to us. I sent 
Amtrust and Mr U my provisional  findings on 4 March 2021.  In it I explained why I thought 
there was insufficient  evidence  to show that any of the policy exclusions  applied, and that 
Amtrust hadnt explained their exact  reasons for declining the claim. So, I was minded to say 
Amtrust should settle the claim. Ive copied my provisional findings below.
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said;
My role, in cases such as these is to decide  if it was fair and reasonable for Amtrust to 
withdraw the indemnity offered by its credit protection policy. The purpose of the policy was 
to insure Mr U against costs arising from the hire agreement  that couldnt  be reclaimed from 
the third party.  And I can see the CMC spent several  months attempting  to recover  the costs  
of the credit  hire agreement from the third party.  But ultimately, they decided they were 
unable to recover any of the costs. 
So, at that point, the insured peril that the credit protection policy  insured  against had 
occurred. And once the insured peril had occurred, it was up to Amtrust to either settle the 
claim or decide if any of the conditions or exclusions contained  within its policy applied.
When Amtrust  wrote to Mr U in August 2018  they said We are concerned that information 
that has been subsequently  provided to (the CMC) suggests that the details of the accident 
that (the CMC) relied upon when deciding  to provide the replacement  vehicle, are not 
accurate. We have been advised that there  are discrepancies within  your original statement 
with (the CMC) and that you have failed to advise  us of information  at the beginning of the 
claim. 
Amtrust wrote to Mr U again about two weeks later saying We have received information 
which confirms that you have failed to co-operate  with the recovery of the charges  you owe 
to (the CMC), This means that you are in breach of the terms and conditions  of the Credit 
Protection Policy. As a result we have  today withdrawn the indemnity offered by this policy in 3respect of the above incident.  But Mr U wasnt happy with the letter he got from Amtrust, 
and I can appreciate why. It didnt  explain  what Mr U had done  in order to have failed to co-
operate with the recovery of the charges.  
Amtrust treated Mr Us dissatisfaction  as a complaint, which I think  was the right thing  to do. 
But Id expect Amtrust to give an explanation in the complaint as to why they felt hed failed 
to co-operate with them. But instead,  the complaint  response said the reason for 
approaching Mr U for the credit hire costs  was; As the third party insurers  have disputed  
liability and provided  witness statements which  show  you were at fault for overtaking  
vehicles at speed, at the junction we have  been  unable to recover  the credit  hire costs. We 
have therefore  had no alternative other than to approach you for the outstanding credit hire 
costs and withdrawing indemnity under the credit  protection
But being  unable to recover the costs  from the third party wasnt  an exclusion of Mr Us 
credit protection policy  in fact that was the purpose of the policy.  And Amtrust gave no 
further explanation as to exactly why they had withdrawn Mr Us indemnity. 
When Mr Us representatives attempted to get further clarification from Amtrust, they were 
sent a copy of the policys terms and conditions with various exclusions and conditions 
highlighted. However, I dont  think its sufficient  for Amtrust  to just highlight  the exclusions 
and conditions it says apply without giving a reasoned explanation as to what  Mr U did to 
enable it to apply  the exclusion or condition. 
I asked Amtrust to provide me with an explanation as to which exclusion Mr U had breached  
and how hed breached it. Amtrust said Had the customer  informed us at the onset of the 
claim that the police  were  investigating the incident  or that he had received any information  
from the police in regards to the this incident,  we would not have agreed to make additional 
enquiries into liability 
Amtrust also said Mr U was unable to provide any independent evidence  to disprove the 
evidence supplied by the third party insurers. So, they would not be able to successfully 
negotiate recovery of the credit  hire costs. 
The general provisions  of Mr Us credit protection policy said In granting cover to the 
insured, We have relied upon the material statements, particulars and other information 
provided by the insured to us or our agents. The statements, particulars  and information  are 
incorporated into and constitute part of the policy. So, If Mr U had provided incorrect  
information when  applying for the policy (otherwise known as a misrepresentation)  Amtrust  
could avoid the policy. And Amtrust  said Mr U hadnt  told them  the police were investigating 
the incident, or that hed had any information  from the police at the onset of the claim. 
Mr U had a responsibility  to disclose all the information he knew  or ought to have known that 
would influence the decision to provide him with the credit protection  policy. So, I asked 
Amtrust to provide me with evidence of the conversation they had with Mr U at the onset of 
the policy.
Amtrust couldnt provide any call recordings but supplied a screenshot of the accident  details  
recorded at the time of the incident. The screen shot shows a very brief outline  of the 
circumstances of the accident.  There  are also several boxes on the form, one of which  says,  
TP info provided which is answered  Police. There is another box under the heading  
Supporting Evidence which asks Police? and Yes is selected. This information  leads me 
to think, on balance, Mr U did tell Amtrust the police had attended the accident and were 4able to provide  evidence.  And Amtrust havent provided any evidence Mr U was asked any 
questions about  the polices involvement  or that he provided incorrect information about their 
involvement.
Mr U attended a speed awareness  course as a result of this collision. But Mr U says the first 
he knew of the request  to attend the course  was when  he received a letter in the post. And 
he thinks that was about three or four months  after the collision. So, I dont think, on balance  
Mr U would have known,  at the outset of the policy that the police were  investigating  him for 
speeding.
Amtrust say Mr Us account of the accident is different to the third parties. And the third party  
claimed the Mr U had overtaken a vehicle  on the wrong side of the road at the junction 
immediately before the collision. Amtrust  suggested  that Mr U couldnt provide any evidence 
that disproved the third parties  account of the accident. So, Ive considered if its fair to 
suggest Mr U misrepresented the circumstances of the accident. 
Mr U was unable to provide evidence himself  disproving the third parties account. But the 
police report contained  statements from several independent witnesses, none of which said 
Mr U had overtaken a vehicle on the wrong side of the road, at the junction, immediately 
prior to the collision as the third party had said. I dont think its fair for Amtrust to prefer the 
third parties account of the accident  when it isnt corroborated by the independent  witnesses. 
So, I dont think its fair to suggest  Mr U misrepresented the circumstances of the accident.     
It was the independent  witnesses accounts that said Mr Us speed contributed to the 
accident which were  ultimately considered when liability was decided.  But I dont think  its 
reasonable to think Mr U would have known  what the witnesses had told the police at the 
outset of the policy. So, he wouldnt have been able to disclose that to Amtrust. 
For these reasons, I dont  think  Amtrust have provided sufficient evidence  Mr U 
misrepresented the circumstances of the accident  at the outset of the policy. So, I dont think  
it would  be fair to avoid  the policy on that basis. 
Amtrust also confirmed to me that they initially withdrew the indemnity as Mr U hadnt 
provided additional information  at the onset of the policy. But they also said they had asked 
for additional information from Mr U regarding his version of events. Amtrust said As such 
both of these aspects breached the terms and conditions  of the credit protection  policy.
The terms of Mr Us policy allowed Amtrust  to exclude the claim if Mr U wilfully or negligently  
prejudices the Third  Party  Claim and, in particular, their ability to recover the Credit  
Agreement Charges from the Defendant in a Third  Party  Claim.
I can see from Amtrusts  file Mr U was asked on several occasions to complete a diagram 
and description  document. And it doesnt  appear  he did so. So, I asked Amtrust if this is 
what they were referring to when they said theyd  asked  for additional information. But 
Amtrust failed to give me a clear explanation. 
However, its recorded Mr U had a telephone call with Amtrust on 11 January 2016 during 
which he gave a further description  of the accident.  During the call Mr U said he would 
provide the diagram hed given his insurers of the accident. The notes show  Mr U sent 
Amtrust his diagram of the accident later that day. 5Mr U was also spoken to on 5 October  2017, during the call Mr U said hed sent a 
description of the incident to his insurer. 
Ive considered whether I think it would be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to exclude the 
claim because  Mr U hadnt  completed  the description and diagram questionnaire. But I dont 
think it would, Ill explain why.
Mr U had already provided a comprehensive diagram of the accident. Amtrust had spoken  to 
Mr U on the phone, at least  twice, regarding the circumstances of the accident. So, I think  it 
would have been reasonable for them  to ask him the questions  they needed  answering.  Mr 
U had also told them hed sent the description to his insurer, so, Amtrust could have asked 
for it from them. 
I also havent seen  sufficient evidence to show that Mr U was able to provide any further 
evidence that would  have assisted Amtrust in recovering  the costs  from the third party.  And 
Amtrust havent said what information  they required in order  to assist them in recovering 
their costs. So, I dont think Mr U completing  the questionnaire would have made a material 
difference to Amtrusts abilities to recover their costs. Therefore,  I dont  find it reasonable to 
exclude the claim based on Mr U having  not completed the questionnaire. 
I also considered if Mr Us attendance  of the speed awareness course prejudiced the third 
party claim. But the cover letter on the police report said no formal proceedings had been 
instigated against  any person involved in the collision. And whilst Mr U could have updated  
Amtrust about the speed awareness  course  several months later,  Amtrust wrote  to the third 
party in August 2016 saying speed  cant be proved as an act of negligence for the accident. 
So, on balance, I dont  think it made a material difference to how the claim  was later handled 
by Amtrust. 
Overall, having looked  at the exclusions and conditions of the policy,  I cant  reasonably say 
theres sufficient evidence that any of them apply. And Amtrust havent provided a clear 
explanation to either Mr U, or us, as to what their exact reasons were to decline  the claim. 
Therefore, Im minded to uphold Mr Us complaint and direct  Amtrust to settle the claim.
the responses to my provisional  findings
Both Mr U and Amtrust accepted my provisional decision, so the case has been  passed 
back to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision.  That means I have 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.6my final  decision
For the  reasons set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold the 
complaint. I direct Amtrust Europe Limited to settle Mr Us claim. 
Under the  rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman