K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nexus  Independent  Financial Advisers Limited gave poor advice 
about their pensions and failed to provide reviews; and that the administration and 
governance arrangements for their pensions were poor.
background
In 2010 Mrs C instructed  Nexus to take over the arrangement of her pension  and paid a fee 
for Nexus to deal with this. Nexus also agreed to take on Mr Cs pension,  which  is smaller, 
without charge. Nexus continued  to administer their pensions and to provide regular reviews 
to Mr and Mrs C until 2017.
In October  2016 Nexus sent an email to its clients suggesting that they consider disinvesting 
their pension funds  and move them to cash,  with a view to reinvesting at a later date. Mr and 
Mrs C decided to do this and Nexus transferred  their pensions  into cash funds.  
When Mr and Mrs C reviewed a summary of their accounts in April 2017 they were 
concerned that the values had fallen.  Following a meeting with Nexus  in August they 
complained that they had not received  the services that should have been provided, and that 
they should not have  been advised to transfer  their pension funds to cash. 
Nexus said under  the terms of their service agreement Mr and Mrs C were  entitled to an 
annual review of their pensions but it had extended  this to quarterly reviews, and they had 
received most of these reviews without  having to pay the usual fee for this. It also said the 
email sent in October 2016 was a general  email  sent to all clients suggesting they consider 
moving their funds  it wasnt a recommendation that they should do this. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and complained to this service.  Our investigator said they 
had relied on the advisers expertise and so were entitled  to rely on the email  sent in October  
2016. She thought such a recommendation should  only have been given after a review  of 
their circumstances  the strategy of moving funds into cash with a view to later market 
reinvestment was a high-risk strategy in terms of maintaining the required returns  and Nexus 
hadnt demonstrated this was the right course  of action for Mr and Mrs C. The investigator 
also said Mr and Mrs C had pointed out there  were  alternatives that would likely have been 
suitable for the investment objectives  rather than moving all their funds to cash. She 
recommended that Nexus compensate Mr and Mrs C for the loss in value they had suffered.
The investigator didnt  uphold the other elements of the complaint, as she felt Mr and Mrs C 
had received regular reviews  and information  above  the level of service  they had paid for. 
She didnt  think there was evidence of poor administration. And she said she wasnt able to 
comment on the governance  arrangements  Nexus had in place; that was a matter  for the 
regulator rather than this service. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted  the investigators  findings, though they queried  how the 
compensation was to be calculated. 
Nexus did not agree. It said the email sent in October 2016 was a general email  to clients 
and didnt amount  to giving advice  it was clear  there was no recommendation being made 
and Mr and Mrs C had accepted this. Nexus also said Mr and Mrs C were both very 
knowledgeable and capable of making their own investment decisions, and it wouldnt be fair 
to compensate them for lost growth on funds  they had decided not to invest  in.  
Ref: DRN19400222As agreement hadnt been reached  on the matter, it was referred to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision in February 2020.  In the provisional decision, I said
I agree  with our investigator that the agreed  level of service provided to Mr and Mrs C only 
entitled them  to one review a year and they received  more regular reviews, quarterly 
newsletters, and updates. Mr and Mrs C havent provided further details of administrative 
failings. They have  said they dont wish to pursue these issues,  and they accept the 
investigators recommendations. 
So the issue  for me to determine is whether they suffered a loss as a result of poor advice  
from Nexus  our investigator thought they did, but Nexus disagrees. Having considered  this 
carefully, I agree with our investigator  and will be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
If Nexus makes  a recommendation, it should  take reasonable steps to ensure its suitable  for 
the client  in this case, Mr and Mrs C. Id expect Nexus to obtain  from them  the information 
needed to decide whether the transaction being recommended is suitable for them and 
meets their investment objectives. But Nexus says it didnt make any recommendation  all it 
did was send a general email  to its clients with a suggestion they consider moving their 
funds to cash. So Ive considered whether this would reasonably  have been  understood by 
Mr and Mrs C to be a recommendation or not. 
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs C received  was a general email.  But this came from their 
financial adviser. They had been  receiving regular  advice about their pension funds and 
where their money was invested.  They relied  on the advisers expertise, and they were  
entitled to do so. And Ive thought about  the wording in that email very carefully.  The part 
relating to the consideration about  moving into cash reads as follows:
I am proposing that as the markets hit just over 7000, clients  consider disinvesting to cash,  
as I feel that this value  is not sustainable  for very long in the immediate current climate.  
Clients can then remain in cash during the uncertainty and reinvest when I feel the next 
upswing is likely.
 
I do not usually  use timing as a market tool, however, given the current  volatility I feel this 
could be an opportune time to try and take benefit with a conservative approach to 
crystallising those gains already made.  Then benefitting from re-entering at a lower point of 
the market.
 
I must stress  that no-one can be certain when the time is right to sell or buy and you may be 
worse off by disinvesting than if you were  to remain invested. However, I feel that by 
disinvesting to cash can provide you with some  stability  in this difficult  time and potentially 
increase your portfolios if we reinvest  at a lower  point.
There are several reasons why I think Mr and Mrs C might reasonably have  considered this 
to be a recommendation. First, the phrase which begins with I am proposing is in my view 
difficult to read without it seeming to be a recommendation, even if it is followed by the actual 
proposal of considering  a move to cash.   There is then the allusion to this being an unusual  
strategy which the adviser might propose, but that markets conditions  were such  that this 
was warranted  in this instance.  Again, as something  which the adviser  wouldnt propose  
ordinarily or lightly, I think this would  reasonably  give the impression that it was being 
endorsed in this instance. And the following message about consolidating gains and re-
entering financial markets  when they had fallen (see below) would have both reassured 
Ref: DRN19400223Mr and Mrs C that the strategy  was in their best interests, and also that they would be 
advised when  to move back  out of cash.
Ive also taken into account that Nexus asked  Mr and Mrs C to sign a form of authority 
agreeing to move all their funds from their pensions and keep these in cash  until you feel 
the time is right to reinvest  in my current portfolio. Mr and Mrs C say they understood this to 
be a short-term measure,  and they would  receive  further advice soon after about  reinvesting 
the funds. Looking at the form of authority, I agree this was the basis  on which they agreed  
to move their pension funds to cash.  They were putting all the pension  funds in the hands of 
their adviser  trusting  the adviser  to decide when to invest  and relying on them to decide 
what to do with those  funds.
Even if the email had simply  been giving general information, at the point where Nexus  
asked Mr and Ms C to sign that authority, I think it should have reviewed  their circumstances 
and considered whether it was suitable for them to move all their funds to cash and leave it 
to Nexus to decide when to re-invest  so giving a properly assessed personal  
recommendation which would have been  suitable for their individual circumstances and 
objectives
But no such  evaluation  and properly formulated  personal recommendation was made. I 
havent seen any documentation to show why this was deemed to be suitable for Mr and 
Mrs C. And there was no follow up recommendation to re-enter the financial markets. They 
thought they would be advised to reinvest after a short period, to make the best use of their 
pension funds. And they say they had to point out to Nexus,  after hearing nothing  further,  
that they were  likely to miss out as markets were in fact continuing  to rise.
Taking all of this into account,  Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C acted on the basis  of what  they 
reasonably considered to be a recommendation from Nexus. And on that basis, irrespective 
of the absence of a proper suitability consideration, Ive considered whether this was a 
suitable course of action  for Mr and Mrs C at that point.  I wouldnt  necessarily  uphold  a 
complaint simply because a business failed to undertake a suitability assessment, if I was 
satisfied that the course of action was in any case right for them  and their circumstances.
And in doing so, I should first say I think the email  in question was doubtless well intended, 
and made  in good faith based on that advisers evaluation of financial markets  and events 
affecting them at that time. But Ive looked  at Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances and in my 
judgment, moving all their funds into cash wasnt the right thing for Mr and Mrs C to do, 
bearing in mind their circumstances at the time. The investments were intended to provide 
retirement income. They were looking for growth of around 5% and were prepared  to accept 
some risk to achieve this. Nexus  has said they are both professionals  who said they would 
have managed their investment and pension  portfolios themselves were  it not for their other 
commitments. Even if thats the case,  I think it shows they didnt have time to manage the 
investments; they were  trusting Nexus to do it for them. 
With suitable advice,  I think  its likely  they would have left their funds invested in order  to 
gain a return  either  by leaving  them in the previous investments or finding  alternative 
investments that would have provided similar  growth. 
So in my view, the movement of all of their pension funds into cash  wasnt  suitable. But just 
as importantly, nor was there was a personalised plan for Mr and Mrs C as to when they 
would be advised  to move  back out of cash.  Leaving the funds is cash didnt lead to a better  
return. And they had to address this themselves, having realised that they were missing out 
Ref: DRN19400224on stock market related  growth. So I think this element of the complaint should be upheld.  
And if Mr and Mrs C have  lost out because  their funds would have increased in value had 
they been invested rather than held in cash,  they should be compensated for that.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr and Mrs C should be put as closely as possible in the position they would 
have been in if they had been given suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below 
is fair and reasonable given their circumstances  and objectives when they invested. 
What should Nexus do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs C fairly, Nexus must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Cs investments  with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable.
If there  is a loss, Nexus should pay into Mr and Mrs Cs pension  plans to increase 
their value  by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount 
paid should allow  for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plans if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance. 
If Nexus is unable to pay the total amount into Mr and Mrs Cs pension plans, it 
should pay that amount directly to them. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, 
it would  have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore  the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr and Mrs Cs actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at their selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, as has been assumed here,  the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Mr C would have been  able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. And the same would apply 
for Mrs C. 
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)
Skandia
Collective  
Retirement 
AccounttransferredThe originally 
held fundsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
Ref: DRN19400225using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
By comparing the actual  value  and the fair value, Nexus will be able to determine a 
percentage of loss (if any) which applied at the end date  that is, the date Mr and Mrs C 
transferred their pension  funds to the new arrangement. Nexus should  then apply  that 
percentage loss to the amount of Mr and Mrs Cs current pension funds. That is the loss 
which should be paid to Mr and Mrs Cs pensions, or if not possible for the reasons set out 
above, directly to them.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs C wanted capital growth and were willing to accept some  investment risk.
As set out above, my view is that the existing funds were suitable  for Mr and Mrs C 
and there was no reason  for them  to move out of these.
developments 
Nexus did not provide  any further comments in reply to the provisional  decision.
Mr and Mrs C did reply, raising  a number of points  
If they have understood it correctly, the intention is for the actual performance of the 
Skandia SIPP investments they held before moving them into cash  to be measured 
for the cash holding  period (rather than measuring the FTSE 100 tracker as had been  
suggested by our investigator);  they ask whether Nexus can carry out that calculation  
without issues and what assurance they will have  that the calculations are accurate.
They ask whether the interest rate is 8% per year compound.
Any compensation for Mr C can be paid by Nexus directly into his new SIPP  for 
future investment.  But as Mrs C can no longer make  pension contributions, they have 
arranged her tax affairs  to maximise her ISAs and receive  the maximum (non-ISA) 
interest returns at the basic rate of tax. This means all further investment returns  
(including this compensation)  will be taxable at the higher rate (40%) on a marginal 
basis.
If this compensation  had been  invested  in Mrs C's current  SIPP as part of the 
transfer from Nexus/Skandia,  it would have benefited from tax free investment 
returns through to her earliest retirement date of 68. So for approximately  21 years,  
the element of her retirement investments  made up of this compensation will suffer 
erosion of 40% on the returns that would otherwise  be rolled up tax free to 
retirement. They estimate the compounded  effect  of this (assuming conservative 5% 
gross annual  returns and therefore  3% net returns) will reduce the ultimate value of 
the investment  by 33%.
Receiving this compensation outside  a SIPP sidesteps 20% basic rate tax on 75% of 
the final sum. But the 33% tax leakage  applies to the whole sum. The net effect  of 
the loss of 33% and the tax avoidance of 15% is a net loss of 18%. On that basis, to 
be fair, the compensation should  be increased  by 18%.
In light of these  comments I advised both parties  that I was reviewing  the proposed 
compensation. I explained that the Regulator  (the FCA) accounts for a 0.5%  pa difference in 
Ref: DRN19400226the projected growth returns between investments within a pension and outside of a pension 
- the respective mid band projected  growth rates are 4.5% pa and 5% pa. As the funds 
would have been invested in pension funds (and predominantly  equities),  rather than on 
deposit, that percentage difference (an overall  10% deduction from the projection rate) would 
be appropriate instead of at Mrs C's marginal income tax rate of 40%. 
So in this specific situation, and given the number of years until retirement  for Mrs C in which  
the redress won't attract the same tax advantages as if it had been  in a pension,  the redress 
sum should be increased by 11% - 0.5%  compounded over a period of 21 years.  But it 
should still then be reduced by the notional tax deduction once  the pension  funds  are being 
taken as tax free cash and income  - 15% as previously stated. 
On this basis, I suggested that the overall deduction should be 4% for Mrs C.
Mr C replied on behalf of Mrs C. He says he doesnt agree with the Regulator's  baseline  
annual differential  of 0.5%, which he believes  should be set at 2% for a higher rate tax 
payer. In his view, its hard to find any logic for a 0.5% differential,  even for a base  rate tax 
payer where  20% tax should lead to a 1% annual differential.  But if the regulator has set the 
annual differential  at 0.5%, he says it would be helpful to be provided with the basis  of that 
assumption.
He does, however,  accept  the remaining logic of the proposal which  he says is the natural 
corollary of the application of the regulator's baseline and aligns with his own logic in that 
respect.
Nexus has not made any further  comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision,  except in relation to the calculation  of the remedy.  
As Ive said,  Nexus has provided  no further  comments in response  to either the provisional  
decision or the further discussion of the remedy. Mr and Mrs C have accepted the findings 
and the proposed remedy,  subject to their questions  over how that should  be calculated  and 
settled. So these are the points  I need  to decide.
Mr and Mrs C say they understand the intention is for the actual performance of the Skandia  
SIPP investments  they held before  moving them into cash  to be used for calculating the loss 
and ask whether  Nexus can carry out the calculation without issues,  and what  assurance 
they will have that the calculations are accurate. Its correct that the calculation will be based  
on how their funds would have performed, had they been left invested.  If Mr and Mrs C 
accept the decision  it will be legally binding. So Nexus will be obliged to carry out the 
calculation and pay the compensation. And if it fails to do so, Mr and Mrs C can enforce  the 
decision through the courts.
They also ask whether the interest rate is 8% per year compound. Since the calculations are 
based on how the funds would have  performed,  had they been  invested, it wouldnt be 
appropriate to add additional interest   the aim is to put them  in the position they would have  
been in, if the funds  had continued to be invested in the same way. So Im not asking Nexus  
to add any additional interest.  
Ref: DRN19400227Finally, although  they accept the logic of the proposed calculations they question the 
regulator's baseline annual differential  of 0.5%, which they say should be set at 2% for a 
higher rate tax payer. I appreciate Mr C has a different view on how the differential should be 
calculated. But in my judgment its reasonable to use the regulators rate. Mr C has said it 
would help to be provided with the basis of that assumption and so I will provide some 
explanation of this.
To explain why this 0.5% differential exists in projection rates,  this is the difference between 
a pension fund and a life fund  the sort of fund Mrs C could invest  in if she used the redress 
payment to purchase  a single premium investment bond. The regulator sets the projection 
rates on expert advice,  which  takes into account  the typical mix of investments contained in 
a life fund  the majority being shares and much of the remainder government or corporate 
bonds.
Life funds pay 20% tax on some (but not all) capital gains and income.  This doesnt depend 
on the tax status  of the end investor such as Mrs C. Because of this, the impact  of tax isnt 
likely to be as high even  as the example of personal taxation Mr C gave for a basic rate 
taxpayer.
I therefore remain of the view that the overall estimate of an 11% differential  loss due to 
greater taxation  within a life fund is appropriate for this case.  However just as with the 15% 
overall assumed  income tax burden on Mrs Cs pension,  its appropriate  to consider whether 
there would be any further income tax implications for Mrs C when withdrawing the proceeds 
from such an investment bond.
An individual would be treated as already having paid income tax at the basic rate on the 
amount of any gain from an investment bond,  reflecting the tax already paid in the life fund  
and if the bond remained in their ownership throughout, there wouldnt be a charge  to capital 
gains tax.
Higher or additional  rate taxpayers are subject to 20% or 25% tax respectively on any gain, 
but the gain is firstly  divided by the number  of years the bond has been  in force to determine 
what income tax band it falls into (when  added to other taxable income).
Mr S has told us that Mrs S expects to be a basic rate taxpayer on the pension  income  this 
redress payment represents. So I consider it reasonable  to also assume that there  would not 
be a personal charge  to higher rate income tax if the redress payment were invested in an 
investment bond.  Its up to Mrs S how she chooses  to invest the redress payment, but I think 
this is a reasonable assumption to make  for the purposes of determining  redress.  
In making any decision  Im obliged to take into account relevant guidance and good  industry  
practice. The 0.5% differential in projection rates between pension funds and life funds is the 
rate used by the FCA  which regulates  the industry. Im not aware  of any plans by the FCA 
to change that differential, so I see no reason to depart from it. And Ive taken into account  
above the personal income tax charges that may apply to Mrs C in deciding that this is a fair 
and reasonable approach.
For these reasons, my view remains that Nexus should compensate Mr and Mrs C as set out 
in my provisional decision (but with the adjustments to take account of Mrs Cs position) as 
follows:
Ref: DRN19400228Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr and Mrs C should be put as closely as possible in the position they would 
have been in if they had been given suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below 
is fair and reasonable given their circumstances  and objectives when they invested. 
What should Nexus do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs C fairly, Nexus must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Cs investments  with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable.
If there  is a loss, Nexus should pay into Mr and Mrs Cs pension  plans to increase 
their value  by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount 
paid should allow  for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plans if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance. 
If Nexus is unable to pay the total amount into Mr and Mrs Cs pension plans, it 
should pay that amount directly to them. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, 
it would  have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore  the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr and Mrs Cs actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at their selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, as has been assumed here,  the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Mr C would have been  able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
In Mrs Cs case, because of her particular  circumstances,  the redress  sum should be 
reduced by 4% (to reflect  the 11% increase followed by the reduction  of 15% for the 
notional tax deduction once the pension funds are being taken, as set out above).
. 
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)
Skandia
Collective  
Retirement 
AccounttransferredThe originally 
held fundsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN19400229Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
By comparing the actual  value  and the fair value, Nexus will be able to determine a 
percentage of loss (if any) which applied at the end date  that is, the date Mr and Mrs C 
transferred their pension  funds to the new arrangement. Nexus should  then apply  that 
percentage loss to the amount of Mr and Mrs Cs current pension funds. That is the loss 
which should be paid to Mr and Mrs Cs pensions, or if not possible for the reasons set out 
above, directly to them.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs C wanted capital growth and were willing to accept some  investment risk.
As set out above, my view is that the existing funds were suitable  for Mr and Mrs C 
and there was no reason  for them  to move out of these.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Nexus Independent Financial  Advisers Ltd to pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Nexus Independent  Financial Advisers Ltd should  provide details of its calculation to Mr and 
Mrs C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1940022