K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner  and didnt respond  to his complaint. 
background
Mr H took out two instalment loans with Satsuma.  In January 2018, Mr H took out a loan of 
£200, repayable  in three instalments ending on 1 May 2018.  In March 2018,  
Mr H took out a second loan of £1,500, repayable over 12 months. I understand that 
Satsuma has referred  the second loan to collections. 
Mr H says that he couldnt afford to repay  the loans and that they made his position  worse. 
He also complains that Satsuma didnt respond  to his complaint. Mr H wants a refund of 
interest, with interest and negative information  about  the loans removed from his credit  file. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think  that Satsuma was 
wrong to lend to Mr H. The adjudicator said that it wasnt ideal that Satsuma didnt response  
to Mr Hs complaint promptly but he could have referred his complaint to this service after 
eight weeks in any event.
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators  assessment. He said, in summary:
Satsuma didnt  ask for his bank statements. 
He isnt disputing  the first loan but the repayment for the second  loan was £249 and it 
wasnt sustainable. 
He had existing  loans when he took out loan two. 
Satsuma caused him great difficulty. 
This service has found  in his favour in another complaint about short-term loans.
Satsuma didnt  close his account after hed asked it to do so.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN11349942But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  Im very sorry to hear about  the difficult 
position Mr H was in. 
Mr H has said that he doesnt want to complain about loan one, so Im concentrating on loan 
two in this decision. Before loan two, Satsuma asked Mr H about his income  and 
expenditure, which it recorded as £1,605  and £900 respectively. Satsuma adjusted his 
expenditure upwards and concluded that Mr H had disposable income of £621.61. The 
monthly repayments for loan two were £249. So, it appeared that Mr H could afford  to repay 
the instalments  for loan two in addition to remaining instalments for loan one. 
Satsuma also carried out a credit check before lending to Mr H. The information a 
prospective lender  can obtain from a credit check isnt in the same detail as Mr H can see 
from his own credit report. Ive seen  the results of Satsumas  credit check and there was 
nothing to indicate that it should make further enquires or that Mr H couldnt afford to repay 
loan two. 
Ref: DRN11349943I think that the checks Satsuma carried out were proportionate. Given  the repayment  
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time and his history with 
Satsuma, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  for Satsuma to ask Mr H for the amount 
of information  needed to show  the lending was unsustainable. There  wasnt anything  in the 
information Mr H provided or the information  Satsuma shouldve  been aware of, which  
meant it wouldve  been proportionate to start verifying what  Mr H said by, for example, 
asking for his bank  statements.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Hs lending with Satsuma with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Satsuma should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I 
dont think there was a point where  Satsuma should  have realised that Mr H couldnt 
sustainably repay  the loans.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but, considering everything, I dont think  that Satsuma was 
wrong to lend to him. I appreciate that Mr H says that this service found  in his favour in 
relation to complaints about other short-term lending. Each complaint is decided on its own 
facts. In this case,  Im satisfied that Satsuma didnt treat him unfairly  in lending to him.  
I can see that there was some delay in Satsuma responding  to Mr Hs complaint. Mr H 
provided Satsuma with the additional information  it requested. Its not clear to me why it 
didnt provide a substantive response sooner  than it did. That doesnt alter the outcome 
though. As the adjudicator  has explained,  after eight weeks  Mr H could have referred his 
complaint to this service  without Satsumas response.
Mr H has complained that Satsumas hasnt closed his account. As that wasnt  part of his 
original complaint, I cant consider that here, as Satsuma hasnt had an opportunity to 
respond to it. If Mr H wishes  to pursue that matter,  he should complain to Satsuma in the first 
instance.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1134994