K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 6 loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr A between January
2015 and January 2016. The amounts Mr A borrowed ranged  between £250 and £500. 
The first three loans were  to be repaid in one instalment  and the final three  loans were 
repayable over three instalments.  Loan four was the largest  amount borrowed,  £500. Mr A 
fell into difficulties repaying the final loan and a repayment plan was arranged. Mr A has 
now repaid all his loans.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint in part and thought loans four to six shouldnt 
have been given. Uncle Buck disagreed. It said there was a break in borrowing between  
loans five and six. The credit searches showed  nothing of concern and it was reasonable 
to rely on what Mr A said about his finances. It also said that removing  adverse  data from 
Mr As credit  report would  give a misleading  report to future  lenders. It did offer to refund 
the interest and charges incurred on loan 4. Mr A didnt accept that offer and so the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr A could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts  
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer.  These 
factors include:
 the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher  the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater  the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN17202702I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender  should 
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise,  that a borrower wont be able to make  
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Uncle Buck  asked Mr A for information  about his income and expenditure and it carried  
out credit checks. Mr A said he earned £1,800 a month and Uncle  Buck  said it verified 
this. Mr A said his monthly outgoings were  around £1000 from what  I can see Uncle 
Buck recorded.
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what  was apparent about Mr As 
circumstances at the time and his history with Uncle Buck, I dont think it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information  needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr A then provided or the 
information Uncle Buck shouldve  been aware of, which  meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr A was saying. From Mr As stated disposable 
income and what Uncle  Buck  saw in its credit checks, I cant say it was wrong  to provide 
loans one to three.
But I think Mr As borrowing history should have prompted Uncle Buck  to make  better 
checks for loan four. Mr A had been  borrowing continuously for four months. Loan four was 
for a substantially  larger amount. So I think Uncle Buck should  have  checked  what Mr A was 
telling it about  his circumstances. I think Uncle Buck needed to verify what Mr A was saying 
with evidence.
As our adjudicator  explained, a proportionate  check for loans  four to six would most likely  
have shown that Mr A was having difficulty managing his money:
 He had rolled over loan 2 on two occasions  and his borrowing was increasing  at the 
point of loan 4.
 This should have  raised concerns about  Mr As ability to meet  his ongoing 
monthly repayments.
I dont agree that because there  was a short gap between loans five and six that this is 
enough to suggest any difficulties have  passed. Mr A fell into problems repaying his final 
loan which  further  suggests that the lending was ultimately unsustainable.
Ref: DRN17202703So I think if Uncle Buck had made better  checks on loan four and properly taken into 
account what it knew about Mr A it would  have seen that Mr A would be unlikely  to 
sustainably repay  loan four and any subsequent loans. So Im upholding the complaint 
about loans four to six and Uncle Buck should  put things right.  I think that Mr A shouldnt 
have been given these loans so I dont think any negative  information  should be reflected 
on his credit file and it is fair to remove this negative information.
putting things right   what Uncle Buck needs to do
 refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans four to six;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any negative information  about loans four to six from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle 
Buck must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1720270