K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the service  provided by TSB Bank Plc in relation to his business bank 
account. 
background
Mr H is the sole director of his company. In mid-April he experienced problems accessing his 
business bank  account online and contacted TSB. He says TSB told him hed only be able to 
access his funds in branch  because it was experiencing system problems. Mr H says that 
when he went there,  after waiting for some time, he was told that it wasnt possible to access 
his account because of the system  issues. 
Mr H says that he had no online  access to his business bank account for three  days  
because of TSBs system  issues. Thereafter, he says he had limited access  where he was 
able to withdraw all his funds incrementally over the following two days. Mr H says that he 
did this because he was afraid that TSBs  system problems might put his money at risk. 
Mr H also says that completing the online  bank  transfers was problematic because  TSBs 
systems kept crashing which he found  frustrating.   
Mr H says that a fraudulent transaction for £5 had taken  place  on his account  and this made 
him extremely anxious that his money might  be at risk because TSB wasnt  able to place a 
block on his bank account until after the weekend. He says that the money was refunded to 
him around  a month later. 
Mr H says that he spent at least eight hours on the telephone with TSB trying to sort out 
access to his business account and made  multiple branch visits. He says that he moved his 
bank account  to another provider and had to contact all his customers  with updated bank 
details which  was inconvenient. He also says that TSB didnt initially believe him when he 
said that fraud had taken  place on his account. Altogether, Mr H says hes suffered 
significant stress which warrants compensation.  
An investigator here upheld the complaint and recommended that TSB pay Mr H £300  in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  to his business, which TSB agreed to. Mr H 
says that this isnt enough. Because of this, the case has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator and Ill explain why. 
Its clear that TSB was experiencing some system problems and Mr H was affected by this. 
And so its right that TSB should compensate Mr H for the impact it had on him being able to 
operate his business. 
Mr H says that he spent several hours on the telephone trying to resolve  matters  with TSB 
and visited the branch  multiple times. Im aware  TSBs phone lines would have been busier 
than usual during  this period and I accept that repeatedly  trying  to get through  would have 
caused Mr H some frustration and inconvenience  particularly because  he was concerned  
about the security  of his funds. Ive also taken  into account the disruption Mr H says was 
caused to his business because he couldnt  pay his suppliers,  how long he couldnt  access 
Ref: DRN15336862his account and that trying to resolve  matters with TSB would  have taken him away  from his 
business. 
Having done so, I consider that a compensation award of £300 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because whilst I agree that Mr H couldnt access  his business 
account online for three days, this was a relatively short period and thereafter  Mr H was able 
to effect transfers  out of the account. So Im satisfied that the impact of not being able to 
access the account was mitigated. 
TSB also returned the £5 which  was fraudulently taken  from Mr Hs account. I agree  that 
TSB took longer to refund  this that wed ordinarily  expect  however Ive balanced this against  
the amount in question and the impact it would have had on Mr Hs business  to be without  
this money for a month. Overall, Im satisfied that the material  impact  on Mr H being able to 
successfully operate  his business without this money would have been minimal. Mr H has 
said that he didnt  suffer any direct financial loss because he couldnt  access his business 
account and it was more a matter  of inconvenience  and frustration.
Mr H has brought this complaint in his capacity  as a director of a company. A limited 
company is a separate legal entity  from the people  who run it so ordinarily we wouldnt 
compensate directors personally  for distress. But I am empowered to make an award for 
inconvenience caused to Mr Hs company because Mr H couldnt access his business 
account  and Ive taken  into account  that the inconvenience would likely have been  greater  
on him because he was a sole director. Having considered everything, Im satisfied that 
£300 is fair compensation for the inconvenience  caused to Mr Hs business. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already, TSB Bank Plc should pay 
Mr H £300 in recognition of the inconvenience  caused to his business.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1533686