K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mr W1, Mr W2 and the late Mrs Ws executor says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  them  
the PPI. 
background
In 1994 Mr W1, Mr W2 and Mrs W took out a mortgage with Santander. At the same time 
they were sold a PPI policy. Mrs W was retired and not working.  Mr W1 and Mr W2 were  
both employed. The PPI policy covered Mr W1 and Mr W2 against not being able to work 
due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Mr W1 and Mr W2 disagreed with the 
adjudicators view so the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Santander has been able to show us a lot of the paperwork that was completed at the time 
of the sale.
The mortgage application form has a section for PPI with the question: Do you wish to take 
out Paymentcare? Paymentcare  was Santanders PPI policy and above the question there 
is a brief description of the cover it provided.  I can see that a box labelled  Yes has been  
marked with a tick and a box labelled No has been left blank.
I also note the PPI was paid for separately to the mortgage  and remained in force  for many 
years. If the PPI wasnt  wanted Id expect  Mr W1 or Mr W2 to have questioned it at an early  
stage but Ive not seen any evidence that they did.
Mr W1 and Mr W2 have told us that Santander  pressured them  into buying it. I think  it was 
recommended to them so Ive no doubt the Santander advisor  told them  they should have it. 
But thats different  to saying they must take it.
All this makes me think that Mr W1 and Mr W2 were likely made aware  the PPI was optional. 
I think they chose  to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although  I can understand 
why they cant  remember  this after so many years.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr W1 and Mr W2 so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think that it 
was. 
For example they were  not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.  
Ref: DRN13133192Although Mr W1 and Mr W2 have told us their employers paid sick pay for some  months,  this 
particular PPI policy could  have paid a monthly  benefit for up to three years if either couldnt 
work. This is likely to have  been much longer than either of their employers sick pay would 
last. 
The PPI would also have  paid a benefit  for up to 12 months if Mr W1 or Mr W2 lost their 
jobs.
Mr W1 and Mr W2 have told us they had some savings to fall back  on. But when choosing  
the mortgage they had opted to borrow  more  rather than use their savings to make a larger 
deposit in order  to borrow less. This suggests they wanted to keep their savings intact. And 
the PPI would allow them to do this if they couldnt  work.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr W1 and Mr W2 about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W1, Mr W2 
and Mrs Ws estate.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to them  because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W, Mr W2 and Mrs W about that. Because  
Santander didnt  tell them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W1 and Mr W2 have said - including  what theyve said 
about Mr W1 having  been made redundant in 2015  but not making a claim. In this decision 
Ive looked at what I think likely happened  in 1994 when the policy  was sold so this point 
would not alter my decision. It may be possible  for Mr W1 to make a backdated  claim on the 
policy. If he wants to pursue this he should contact the policy  insurer.
what Santander needs to do
Santander has to pay back  to W1, Mr W2 and Mrs Ws estate any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back  to 
them any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr W1, Mr W2 and Mrs Ws estate the extra they paid each  
month because the commission  and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Santander should also pay them 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W1, Mr W2 and Mrs Ws estate  
can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
Ref: DRN13133193my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W1, Mr W2 and Mrs Ws estate.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to them any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W1, Mr W2 
and the executor of Mrs Ws estate  to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2019.  
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1313319