K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Paragon Finance PLC are unfairly pursuing him for payment of a debt 
they bought.  
background
Mr P took out a credit card account  with a bank  in 2004. In early  2013, the bank  formally  
notified him theyd  sold the debt accumulated on that account.  The bank have confirmed the 
debt was sold for just over £5300.
Mr P made regular payments to Paragon until around September 2017.  At that point,  they 
agreed a three month break in payments, but have since  contacted Mr P regularly to ask him 
to repay  the debt.  
Mr P thinks  the amount  hes paid to Paragon in total should have paid off the debt and he 
disputes the amount they say is currently owed.
Mr P has recently asked Paragon to provide  him with copies of various  documents  to 
demonstrate that debt is owed. He says they havent done so and this means  the debt is 
unenforceable.
Mr P complained to Paragon. He said the debt was unenforceable and the original lending  
was irresponsible  and unaffordable - and the terms were unfair. He said Paragon  hadnt 
complied with their duties when acquiring  the debt,  theyd pursued him for payment in an 
aggressive and threatening manner and had unfairly  added  to his debt by applying costs  and 
charges.
Paragon didnt uphold  Mr Ps complaint, so he brought it to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Paragon  had done anything wrong.
Mr P disagrees and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.  He wants Paragon to 
write off the debt,  to cease collection activity and to remove  any record  of the debt from his 
credit reference records. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making this decision, I cant look whether  the original lending  by the bank was 
irresponsible, unaffordable or unfair. This complaint is against Paragon, not the bank.
Its not for us to determine  whether a debt is enforceable. Only a court  can do that. The 
question for me is whether Paragon acted  fairly  and reasonably in the way they handled 
Mr Ps debt.
We have evidence from the bank to confirm  the debt did exist, the size of the debt and the 
fact it was sold. We also have copies of the letter sent to Mr P in early  2013 to confirm  the 
sale of the debt.
Ref: DRN19877872Weve also seen statements of account  which confirm that between  November 2012  and 
September 2017, Mr P paid around  £50 per month towards settlement of the debt. Mr P 
doesnt dispute this. The fact he made monthly  payments  and for a long period   suggests 
Mr P acknowledged  the debt and accepted  the money was owed. 
The balance owed  was just over £5400 in late 2012   as confirmed in the account  
statements and as confirmed by the bank.  Mr P paid around £50 for 59 months   the actual 
total being around £2900.  So Paragons suggestion  that Mr P now owes them around £2500 
makes perfect sense mathematically.
Paragon say they havent added any charges,  fees or interest  to Mr Ps debt.  And again that 
squares with maths.
So, Im satisfied the debt exists. Im satisfied it was sold and that Paragon  now own it. And 
Ive no evidence to suggest its not for the amount Paragon say - or that theyve added 
charges, fees,  interest or anything else to the debt.
That being  the case, Paragon are entitled  to ask Mr P to pay the debt, whether or not its 
enforceable in court  (and as I say, this is a matter for the courts).  
Of course,  they are required to carry out their collection activities  in a fair and reasonable 
manner. And Mr P says Paragons requests for payment  have been  excessive, threatening 
and unfair.  
I can understand why Mr P might have found it stressful and upsetting  to be contacted by 
Paragon about  the debt,  but I cant agree that their contact  with him was excessive. 
They allowed  him a break in payments  after September 2017,  during which  Mr P told them 
he was seeking  assistance in getting the debt sorted  out. And after that, they contacted  him 
once a month to ask him to make arrangements to repay the debt.
Theres no evidence to suggest those contacts were  threatening in any way or that Paragon  
misled Mr P about the position and/or what they were entitled to do to try to retrieve  the 
money he owed them.
And theres  no evidence  Mr P told Paragon he was experiencing financial difficulties and/or 
asked them to discuss a repayment plan with him.
Paragon also have  a duty to provide accurate information to credit reference  agencies. 
Theyd be entitled  if not obliged  to provide  information which accurately reflects Mr Ps 
debt and the extent to which he has repaid it.
To summarise, I cant see that Paragon have acted in any way unfairly  or unreasonably 
towards Mr P in their handling of his debt.
Ref: DRN19877873my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1987787