K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Ms H have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr F and Ms H were sold the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F and Ms H disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS has very little paperwork available from the time of the sale,  which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago the sale took place.  But it does make the case more  difficult to decide.  
Therefore in reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, and 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened. Ive also thought  about how long ago the 
sale took place  and how this may have affected Mr F and Ms Hs memory  of events.
Mr F and Ms H have said that they didnt know the PPI had been  added to their mortgage 
account  meaning  that BoS added  the policy without their knowledge or consent.
Although we dont  have  the actual paperwork for Mr F and Mrs H, we have seen copies of 
the sort of forms that BoS were using at the time. Based on what we know  of the sale of 
mortgage PPI, I consider  it is more likely than not that there  would have been a discussion 
about the policy as part of the wider conversation about Mr F and Ms Hs mortgage needs. 
Overall I think  its more  likely that not that the policy was presented as optional.
As Ive said,  the sale was a long time ago, so it also wouldnt be surprising if Mr F and Ms 
Hs recollection of events has faded.  Ive thought very carefully about what  Mr F and Ms H 
have said, but on balance I think that they probably  decided to buy the PPI, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even  if they no longer remember doing so.
BoS advised Mr F and Ms H to buy the PPI. Therefore in recommending  the policy,  it 
needed to ensure that it met Mr F and Ms Hs needs.  And from what I know  of the couples 
circumstances at the time, I think the policy was suitable.
The PPI was set up to cover both Mr F and Ms H for accident, sickness  and unemployment.  
Both Mr F and Ms H have  said they would have received at least three  months sick pay 
from their employers. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than they would  have received full pay for (the policy would have paid out for up to 24 
months per claim). And Mr F and Ms H havent mentioned having any other means, such  as 
savings, that they could  fall back on. So I think they had a need for the policy and could  have 
Ref: DRN12275452benefitted from it at what  would have been  a difficult time, so it wasnt  unreasonable of BoS 
to advise them to buy it. A mortgage is a significant financial  commitment and so it wouldnt 
be surprising if Mr F and Ms H had an interest  in protecting their repayments.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr F and Ms H werent  affected  by any of 
those things. As I think they had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  
that more information would have  caused  them to change their minds.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt have to refund 
everything Mr F and Ms H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr F and Ms H 
back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr F and Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1227545