K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly set up a standing order.   
background 
Mr A owed money to a third party company under a court judgment.  He went into HSBC to 
set up a standing  order to make monthly  payments. But the first payment was missed. As a 
result a bailiff attended the property in which Mr A has a rented room  seeking to enforce the 
debt. Mr As landlord was disturbed by the bailiffs actions and gave Mr A a notice to vacate 
the premises unless  he paid £3,000 to settle  the matter including  for the stress and trauma 
the landlord said the bailiffs had caused him. 
Mr As unhappy HSBC made an error  and with the way he was dealt with in the branch when 
he raised his complaint.  He says HSBC didnt  take his complaint seriously and its caused 
him, his family and his landlord  and his family stress  and embarrassment. He says he 
borrowed £3,000  from friends and family to pay his landlord to avoid his family being evicted. 
He wants HSBC to pay him £4,000 compensation to cover  the £3,000 he says he paid his 
landlord and £1,000 for the distress caused.
HSBC said in its final response that it set up Mr As standing order  in favour  of a company on 
9 April 2018 with the first payment due to be sent on 15 April.  But unfortunately the staff 
member asked for the first payment to be on 16 April as the previous day wasnt a working  
day. This meant the April payment couldnt be made. HSBC apologised for any 
inconvenience this caused and paid £25 to Mr A.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said:
HSBC confirmed in its final response  that it made an error  and paid Mr A £25 as an 
apology. This isnt enough given  whats happened. The error wasnt in keying in the 
standing order but was with the advice Mr A shouldve been  given.  As the date he 
wanted the first payment made was a Sunday, HSBC shouldve  told him the payment 
wouldnt go out on that day so he could make  a manual payment. 
Mr A wasnt subsequently given good  service in the branch. Its reasonable to 
assume Mr A wouldve set up his complaint in the branch when he went in but he had 
to do so again a few weeks later. And HSBC has confirmed its complaint procedure 
doesnt require  a letter as Mr A says he was advised. It also didnt handle  the 
complaint in the way wed expect or within the expected timescales.
The notice letter from Mr As landlord gives details of the bailiffs visit and asks for 
£3,000 to settle the matter otherwise Mr A would be evicted. This doesnt prove Mr A 
paid him the £3,000 but it does show the impact  of HSBCs error.
Without evidence  of Mr A paying  his landlord she cannot ask HSBC  to compensate 
Mr A at the level he wants.  But HSBC has agreed to pay an additional £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused which is fair and reasonable.
Mr A doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says he cannot 
understand how the £100 figure has been come up with. He was caused a lot of distress  and 
was given poor service  and wants £1,000  compensation. 
Ref: DRN18705542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC accepts it made an error when setting up Mr As standing order. And I agree with the 
adjudicator that it couldve  dealt with Mr A in the branch and his subsequent complaint 
better.
All that remains is for me to decide  what an appropriate award of compensation is for this.
Ive no doubt that Mr A was caused  some  distress and inconvenience by everything that 
happened and the way HSBC dealt with him. Not least by the consequences following the 
bailiffs visit to the property and the resulting detrimental  effects this appears to have had on 
his relationship with his landlord. Mr A couldve also been treated more sympathetically and 
better in the branch when  he registered  his complaint and I note he had to make a return  
visit later to do so again. 
Mr A would like £1,000 compensation for this. But I think that would be far too much. 
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think HSBCs offer 
to pay an additional  £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, in 
addition to the £25 its already paid, is fair and reasonable.  
I should add that although  Ive no doubt these  events  also affected Mr As wife and the 
landlord and his family I cannot award  them compensation as theyre  not HSBCs customers  
or eligible complainants.
Mr A has also previously  asked HSBC to pay him the £3,000  he says he paid his landlord to 
avoid eviction. Mr A says he borrowed this sum from family and friends and paid it to his 
landlord. HSBC says that this sum didnt  leave Mr As account with it. And Ive seen  nothing  
to prove  Mr A borrowed  the money  or has actually paid this sum to his landlord. Even if he 
has paid it, I dont think theres anything establishing  a legal basis  for the landlords  demand 
or for Mr A making the payment. Consequently on the available  information I dont think  I can 
fairly or reasonably require HSBC to reimburse  Mr A for this sum or any money  he mightve 
paid to his landlord.  
I also cant hold HSBC  responsible for the way the bailiffs  conducted their visit and that may 
be something Mr A wishes to take up directly with the bailiffs.  
Overall I think  the adjudicators proposed  resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right HSBC UK Bank  Plc should  pay Mr A an additional  
£100 compensation.
HSBC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr A 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN18705543If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr A how much  its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1870554