K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Mr F was mis-sold a Silver Select Account (SSA) and together  
they were mis-sold a Reward  Platinum  Account  (RPA) by The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc 
(RBS).
background
Mr and Mrs F say that when they met with a financial  advisor  from RBS in April 2013, the 
advisor failed to tell them  they could have a joint packaged bank account. As a result Mr F 
later took out an SSA on his own and Mr and Mrs F together paid more  fees than they 
needed to.
Mr and Mrs F also say that they were  not properly informed about their joint RPA when they 
took it out in April 2018 and it didnt provide the benefits they were expecting.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
There are two distinct parts of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint but before I consider  them  I need to 
consider whether Mr and Mrs F knew they had a choice  whether to open the SSA or RPA and 
pay the account fees or not, and whether RBS advised Mr F to take the SSA or Mr and Mrs F 
to take the joint RPA.
In my view both Mr and Mrs F knew they had a choice  whether to take out the SSA and the 
RPA and pay the account fees or not and chose  to take them out. I say this because  they had 
both had fee free accounts  previously  and they took out a joint fee free account  as a result  of 
their meeting  with the RBS advisor  in April 2013  before  taking out the SSA or RPA. 
RBS says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
SSA or RPA to Mr and Mrs F personally  or advise  them to take the accounts out. I dont know 
what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything such as a record  of a discussion 
about Mr and Mrs Fs needs and circumstances or a suitability check to show  me clearly  that it 
did make  a personal recommendation to them. I accept its possible that in providing  
information to Mr and Mrs F and explaining the benefits of the SSA or RPA, RBS may have 
said or implied that it was a good idea to take them out. But this isnt the same  as a personal 
recommendation. And based on this services  knowledge of RBSs  sales practices at the time, 
I think its more likely than not that RBS sold the SSA and RPA to Mr and Mrs F on an 
information only basis. 
This means  RBS did not have to ensure that the SSA was suitable  for Mr F or that the RPA 
was suitable for both of them, but it did have to provide Mr and Mrs F with good enough 
information about the accounts so they could make an informed decision about  whether to 
have them or not.
So having  established those principles, Ill now consider the core of their complaint.
Ref: DRN15165772Firstly Mr and Mrs F say that when they met RBS in a meeting in April 2013, RBS should have 
told them  that a joint packaged bank account  was available  to them  with a single fee.
I have considered this very carefully and I think its more  likely than not that RBS responded 
reasonably to what it was being asked for at the time.  I say this because  Mr and Mrs F have  
been consistent in saying  that they were  asking RBS for an account to pool some finances  and 
from which they could  make joint payments such as bills. And if RBS told them  about the fee 
free accounts from which they could do this, I dont  think RBS did anything  wrong.  I agree with 
Mr and Mrs F that RBS could have gone on to describe their range of packaged bank  
accounts.  But as Mrs F already had one, and hence  was aware of them, and Mr F has not 
said that he told RBS at the time that he wanted  one, in my view it was not wrong  for RBS not 
to mention them.
Then a year later when Mr F decided that he was interested  in an SSA, he took the account 
out on line. And even  if he spoke to RBS at the time,  the sale was on what  Ive decided above 
was an information  only basis. So it was for Mr F to consider what might be available in the 
market and decide whether the SSA was right for him or not. And I cant  see that RBS did 
anything wrong  at that time either. 
So I dont  think its fair to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint on this issue.
Their second complaint  is that when they took out the RPA together,  they were not given 
enough information about it. They say that the discounted holidays  on offer through  the RPA 
for their honeymoon were  not as cheap as those available through other suppliers; and they 
lost out on the benefit of access to airport lounges by choosing  a cheaper supplier.
As Ive said above  the RPA sale was on an information only basis. I cant see that RBS has 
said that their holidays  would be the cheapest. But the 10% discount  was available and 
included the lounge access,  so it was for Mr and Mrs F to decide what  was the best holiday 
package for them. So I dont think its reasonable to uphold their complaint on this either.
I see that RBS has made a £30 payment to Mr and Mrs F although its not clear what for. I also 
see RBS sent them  a hamper as a result of the poor service  they received during  the handling 
of their complaint.  As this is the level of compensation this service  would give for this type of 
poor customer service, and I dont think RBS has done anything else wrong, I dont  think its 
reasonable for me to award anything else in relation  to this complaint.
So in my view, Mr and Mrs F have not lost out as result of RBS doing anything  wrong and 
although I know theyll be disappointed I cant uphold  their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Ref: DRN15165773Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1516577