K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that he wasnt able to apply for additional borrowing on his mortgage  with 
TSB Bank plc. 
background 
Mr J had a mortgage  with TSB. He wanted  to apply for further  borrowing  but TSB said it 
wasnt able to do this due to an issue with its IT systems. As it wasnt  able to accept an 
application, TSB told Mr J he could move to a different lender if he wanted to, and it wouldnt 
apply an early repayment charge (ERC). Mr J then chose to move to a new lender where he 
was able to borrow  the funds he wanted.  
Mr J raised a complaint  with our service because  he believed his new mortgage is on less 
favourable terms than his mortgage with TSB had been. He asked that TSB pay him 
compensation for the cost of additional  interest he believed hed have to pay in the future, as 
well as costs he incurred  in moving  the mortgage.  
TSB told our investigator that some of the administrative  costs  Mr J incurred could have 
been avoided,  and some  would have  been incurred if he had taken additional borrowing with 
it in any case. It said that Mr J chose a new mortgage  which featured  fees where others may 
not have, so it didnt think  it should  cover those costs. Nonetheless it accepted that by not 
being able to consider an application it had caused Mr J unnecessary  inconvenience,  so it 
offered to pay him £250 compensation for the trouble  caused.  
Our investigator noted that Mr Js new mortgage had a variable rate lower  (for two years)  
than it had been with TSB. He accepted that Mr J had a preferential  rate on part of his 
borrowing with TSB,  which meant  it was capped at 2% above  the Bank of England (BoE) 
Base Rate for the life of the mortgage, but Mr Js new mortgage would change to a rate 
which tracked below the new lenders variable rate after two years.
Overall our investigator thought that Mr J likely had not lost out financially in the short  term, 
and said it wouldnt be possible to say whether  or not Mr J would be better  or worse off in the 
long term. He said that for the first two years of his new mortgage the interest rate applied  to 
Mr Js mortgage would  likely be significantly lower than it had been with TSB, and that after 
that period hed be able to apply for a new product with the same or a different lender. Our 
investigator accepted  that Mr J had incurred administrative costs when he chose to move his 
mortgage, but said that he had not lost out financially taking  into account that TSB had 
waived his ERC and his new mortgage  rate was significantly lower  than the one he was on 
with TSB.
He nonetheless accepted  that Mr J likely wouldnt have  moved  his mortgage had TSB been 
able to accept  an application  which probably  wouldve been successful - for further 
borrowing, but he was satisfied that the £250  compensation TSB offered  Mr J for this was 
sufficient compensation  for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr J didnt agree, he said that if it had not been for TSBs IT issues he wouldve been  able to 
continue to benefit from an interest rate he preferred,  without risk of an ERC. He maintained 
that TSB had caused him a loss over the term of his mortgage and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
The case  has been passed to me to decide  what should happen.
Ref: DRN15700882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
I accept that it must have  been very frustrating for Mr J to find that TSB wasnt able to offer 
any further borrowing  on his mortgage  when he wanted it due to an issue  with its IT systems. 
TSB accepted the inconvenience this caused  and offered  to waive  any ERCs which applied 
to customers who wanted to move their mortgage elsewhere during the time it wasnt  able to 
offer the facility,  which I think  was fair. 
Its understandable  that Mr J chose to move his mortgage elsewhere  as he wanted further 
borrowing. In doing so, I think that Mr J ought reasonably to have taken steps to mitigate the 
impact this would  have on him. Whilst I would expect TSB to cover  unnecessary,  
unavoidable and reasonable costs Mr J incurred that he otherwise wouldnt have but for 
TSBs IT issues, I wouldnt expect it to cover every cost Mr J incurred, especially if the 
incursion of those costs led to Mr J being in a better position financially. 
Mr Js mortgage with TSB was, in part, subject to different rates. Part of it was subject to 
interest at TSBs standard variable mortgage rate which tracked 2% above the BoE base 
rate, which I understand to be the preferential rate he refers to. The remainder was subject 
to different  fixed rate products with interest  being charged at a rate the same or higher.
When Mr J subsequently  moved his mortgage  to another lender  he increased his borrowing 
significantly. His new mortgage was also subject to a variable  rate for the first two years  
one which  tracks at 4.02% below the lenders standard variable rate (SVR), which at the time 
was 4.99% and meant that interest  was being charged at 0.97%. As things stand, I 
understand the lenders SVR has dropped to 4.49%, so I expect that the rate applied to the 
entirety of Mr Js borrowing  has also dropped. Mr Js new mortgage says that it will revert to 
a variable rate which was 4.99% at the time but wouldnt go above  6.75% for three 
subsequent years. After that it would  revert to the lenders SVR.  His mortgage offer also says 
that Mr J would not incur  an ERC unless he repaid the mortgage  within  the first two years. 
I dont know whether Mr J wouldve applied for the same amount of borrowing with TSB had 
he been able to, or what terms  TSB wouldve applied had his application  been  successful. 
But I know that only a portion of it wouldve remained on the tracker  rate, and it wouldve 
been for TSB to offer a different rate on any other or additional borrowing. But my main 
concern is whether or not Mr J has likely  lost out by losing the tracker  rate which was applied  
to a portion of his borrowing. 
Ref: DRN15700883Like our investigator,  I believe  its highly  unlikely that Mr J has been caused  any financial 
loss in the short term. I say this because we know that Mr Js mortgage  with TSB  whether 
fixed or variable rate  was subject to interest likely more than that of his new mortgage for 
the first two years. So, whilst Mr Js payments may have gone up as a result  of borrowing 
more, the interest  rate applied  overall  to the entirety  of his borrowing for the first two years of 
the new mortgage is likely to be significantly lower  from what Ive seen, as much  as half. 
As a result, Im satisfied  that Mr J has benefited  significantly by moving his mortgage to a 
new lender, at least for the first two years. 
Given interest rates which are currently available, it also seems likely  that Mr J will be able to 
benefit from rates equal to or better  than the one he had with TSB, without being charged 
and ERC,  after two years. Although this is dependent on Mr Js management of his 
mortgage, I think it probable that Mr J is unlikely to be worse  off in the near future if he takes 
steps to source  new products when his rate goes up or his existing one comes to an end. 
Our investigator said that it wasnt possible to say whether Mr J would be worse off having 
moved his mortgage  in the long term, and I agree  with this too. I cant  reasonably predict 
what rates  may become  available in the future so I cant say that Mr J has lost out  it could 
actually be the case that he is better off overall  having moved his mortgage, especially 
taking into account  rates that are currently available.  But even if I accept theres a chance 
Mr J could be worse  off, thats hypothetical and I dont think itd be fair to ask TSB to pay 
compensation for something that is yet to, and significantly, may not happen.
I understand Mr Js concerns that ensuring  his mortgage is subject to a rate equal  to, or 
lower than the one he had with TSB,  is likely dependent on fixing  to a new product or moving 
his mortgage to get a better  rate. And I accept that he may subsequently be subject to an 
ERC if he chooses to repay part or all of a new mortgage should  he choose a fixed  product. 
But that may have  been the case on any additional  borrowing he might  have  taken with TSB. 
Referring to the administrative costs Mr J incurred in moving his mortgage  that hes asked 
TSB to pay, I agree with our investigator  that it wouldnt be reasonable for TSB to cover  
these for a number of reasons. Firstly, I accept  that some of the fees Mr J has asked to be 
paid likely  wouldve been  incurred if hed taken further borrowing with TSB in any case. So it 
wouldnt be fair to ask TSB to refund fees Mr J always would have paid.
Additionally, Ive also considered our investigators  suggestion that Mr Js likely to have been 
in a better financial position to the extent  that it wouldnt be fair to cover the fees.  Taking into 
account that hes had the benefit of a lower interest rate for almost two years (on the portion 
of his mortgage which was subject to the variable rate) compared to the one which wouldve 
applied to the majority  of his existing borrowing with TSB, I agree that it wouldnt be fair to 
ask TSB to pay this as the saving likely outweighs the cost.
Lastly, I also consider  that TSB has made  a reasonable point regarding the product fee Mr J 
paid for his new mortgage; generally  lenders apply product fees to mortgages which  feature 
a lower interest rate than those which  dont. In turn, mortgages which offer less beneficial 
rates, may not have  the same fees. Mr J could  have sourced a mortgage which didnt charge 
a product fee, and its likely that by paying  one hes benefited from a lower interest rate. As a 
result, I dont think itd be fair for Mr J to effectively benefit twice  by having the benefit of a 
lower rate and his product  fee refunded.
Ref: DRN15700884So, given all of the above, Im not satisfied that Mr J has lost out financially as a result of 
whats happened in the short term, and whilst I think it improbable  that he will in the long 
term, I dont think itd be fair to ask TSB to compensate Mr J for any potential or hypothetical 
future costs. Nonetheless, I accept  Mr J was inconvenienced by having to move  his 
mortgage elsewhere, but I think the £250  compensation TSB offered to pay him was fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc has already done 
enough to put things  right by offering to pay Mr J £250 compensation. If it has not already  
done so, it should now pay that sum to Mr J.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1570088