K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about his annuity  with Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). Hes 
concerned his ex-wife  wont benefit from his annuity  if he dies before her. He also says Aviva 
gave incorrect information when his annuity was set up and later when he and his wife were 
getting divorced.
background
Having lost his job in December 2013,  Mr D took benefits from his Aviva Personal Pension  
Plan (PPP) early. Based on financial advice  he received from his Independent  Financial 
Adviser (IFA), Mr D purchased a joint life annuity with Aviva  which  included  provision of a 
dependants income upon his death. Mr Ds wife was listed  as the dependant.  
Mr D says that at the time he purchased his annuity his IFA said,  based on what  hed been 
told by Aviva, that dependency was tested  at the outset. So in the event of Mr Ds death, his 
wife would always receive the spouses  benefit available under his annuity.
In August  2015  Mr Ds wife asked for a divorce. Solicitors were  appointed to reach a 
settlement agreement. As part of this Mr D asked  his IFA to make  enquiries about his 
annuity with Aviva. On 10 September 2015 Mr Ds IFA forwarded  Mr D the response 
received from Aviva.  In summary it said:
because of how Mr Ds annuity was set up his wife was still eligible to receive the 
spouses pension  in the event  of his death
as the annuity was set up with dependency  being tested  at outset, the spouses  
pension was payable  to whoever Mr D was married to when his annuity was set up
Mr D later asked  Aviva  if the spouse/dependant benefit could be removed from his annuity  
so he could receive a higher income.  Aviva confirmed this wasnt  possible. 
Mr D and his wife reached a settlement agreement on 29 October 2015. As part of this Mr D 
agreed to pay his wife a lump sum of £100,000  with no ongoing maintenance. Regarding Mr 
Ds annuity the agreement also said:
the Wife is a guaranteed  dependant and is to benefit on his death. The Husband 
undertakes not to make any changes to the plan.
In December 2015 Mr Ds IFA emailed Aviva asking  it to confirm in writing  that upon  Mr Ds 
death, spouses benefits would be paid to his soon  to be ex-wife. Aviva referred this request 
onto its annuity  team and advised Mr Ds IFA that its response time was 3-5 days.
On 4 January  2016 Aviva  advised  Mr Ds IFA that it had called Mr D on 14 December 2015  
advising that it appeared possible to pay his pension to his ex-wife  and dependent children, 
but this would need to be verified by its Legal/Technical area, from which it was still awaiting 
a response.
A provisional  Court Order  for Mr D and his wifes  divorce was issued 6 January 2016 
allowing six weeks for any objections  before  the final divorce order would be issued.
On 19 January 2016 Aviva confirmed the correct position regarding the spouses pension  
under Mr Ds annuity to both Mr D and his IFA. In summary it said:
Ref: DRN16731182if Mr D divorced his wife, she wouldnt automatically receive a pension  upon his 
death unless she was still financially dependent on him (e.g. if he was paying her a 
regular income under  a divorce settlement)
the benefit for any dependent child under  23 would still apply regardless of divorce
A Court Order finalising Mr Ds divorce  was issued on 3 March  2016. By then, in February 
2016, Mr D and his IFA had complained to Aviva. Aviva responded in April 2016  and in 
summary said:
its annuity team had confirmed with Mr D on 14 December  2015 that although  it 
appeared possible to pay a spouses  pension to his ex-wife  and dependent children,  
this needed to be verified by its Legal/Technical area - a reply from which was still 
pending at the time
its Legal/Technical team later confirmed that Isle of Man legislation  for personal  
pensions didnt  provide for dependency testing the outset. So if Mr Ds ex-wife 
couldnt prove dependency  upon  his death there  were no grounds for her entitlement 
to a spouses pension
there were no grounds to rewrite  Mr Ds annuity on a single life basis
it wasnt responsible  for Mr Ds decision to buy an annuity  with a spouses  pension. 
Nor was it responsible  for life events such as divorce. This was something for Mr D 
and his IFA to consider
Further to an email  from Mr D on 25 November 2016 Aviva wrote to Mr D on 21 December 
2016. In summary  it said:
it originally sent its final response  to Mr D in April 2016 confirming it couldnt increase 
his annuity payments  or rewrite his annuity
further to numerous  communications between  Aviva, Mr D and his IFA, Mr Ds 
complaint had been reopened 28 November 2016
it couldnt rewrite Mr Ds annuity.  This was because when the annuity was set up Mr 
D gave Aviva his choices and it set up his annuity on this basis and the signed 
declaration confirming he understood  the  option hed chosen
documents issued  to Mr D when  he chose his annuity said the spouses benefit was 
for a spouse/civil partner or dependant. If the chosen individual  was none of these  
when Mr D died the no benefit was payable  
Unhappy with Avivas  responses Mr D referred  his complaint to the Pensions Ombudsman  
(PO) in January 2017.
The PO looked at Mr Ds complaint and issued its opinion. In summary it said:
the rules applicable to Mr Ds annuity ultimately derived from the rules applicable to 
his PPP.  So benefits could only be paid under Mr Ds annuity  to someone meeting 
the definition of a dependent under the rules of Mr Ds PPP
to receive benefits under Mr Ds annuity,  his ex-wife would have to prove 
dependency on him when he died
correspondence indicated Mr Ds IFA had received around  £3,600  for setting up the 
annuity. And because  this was an advised sale it was for Mr Ds IFA to consider 
whether the annuity  was suitable
Ref: DRN16731183complaints about the suitability of Mr Ds annuity couldnt  be investigated by the PO 
as it wasnt in their jurisdiction. These could potentially be considered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service
Mr Ds complaint would be upheld in part to the extent Aviva  pay him £500  for 
significant trouble  and upset caused  by providing incorrect information about benefits 
payable to dependents and for avoidable delays confirming the correct position
Mr D accepted the compensation and his complaint  with the PO was closed.
Mr D later exchanged correspondence  with his IFA regarding  the POs conclusions.  Mr Ds 
IFA said that as Mr D was married at the time of its advice a discussion around dependency 
wouldnt necessarily have  happened. Mr D responded and said his IFA had definitely 
discussed dependency at the outset because hed wanted to be sure that when he passed  
away his then wife wouldnt have any problems claiming on his annuity. Mr D said he 
thought dependency was relevant at the time his annuity was set up and asked why his IFA 
never queried what Aviva had incorrectly said about dependency being  tested  at the outset.
In March 2018 Mr D contacted  the PO again.  He said he felt Aviva  was responsible for mis-
selling his annuity as it hadnt provided  any information at the outset about dependency  
testing and divorce.
The PO responded and said it thought the best course of action was for Mr D to refer the 
matter to our service as it would be able to consider Avivas actions and the actions of Mr 
Ds IFA. 
Mr D referred  his concerns about his annuity  to our service in August 2018 saying he still felt 
Aviva made an error setting up his annuity and that it had provided  his IFA with incorrect  
information around the time of his divorce.
Our service made Aviva aware  of Mr Ds complaint  and asked it to provide  its file and 
confirm its position.
Aviva considered the matter and in summary  said:
a settlement agreement wasnt usually legally  binding  and was put in place before a 
divorce prior to a legally binding court order being  applied  for when a divorce was 
finalised
Mr Ds settlement agreement confirmed the parties agree that upon divorce a Court  
Order shall be obtained in accordance with the terms  of this agreement
while the separation agreement  dated  29 October 2015 was reached  before the 
correct situation  had been clarified  by Aviva, the decree absolute  showed Mr Ds 
divorce as having been finalised  3 March 2016
as the correct situation  (regarding the spouses annuity) had been communicated  
before Mr Ds divorce had been  finalised, the parties involved should  have  corrected 
the agreement  at the point the court order was obtained
Our investigator considered the matter and initially said she thought  Mr Ds annuity should 
be rewritten on a single  life basis by Aviva as she didnt think  Mr D wouldve chosen  his 
annuity if hed known at the outset that his wife wouldnt benefit from it in the event they 
divorced.
Ref: DRN16731184Aviva responded to our investigator and said Mr Ds request  for his annuity to be rewritten  
had already been dealt  with and it wasnt willing to do this. It suggested  our investigator 
speak to Mr Ds adviser  to see what was discussed  at the point of sale of Mr Ds annuity.
Our investigator reconsidered the matter and changed her position.  In summary she said:
she didnt think it was appropriate for our service to consider the issues Mr D had 
raised regarding  the rewriting  of his annuity  and the payment of the spouses pension  
to his ex-wife as these  issues  had been addressed previously by the PO
Mr D wouldve been aware  of the correct  situation regarding  his annuity on 19 
January 2016  so he had enough time to amend the settlement agreement  before his 
divorce was granted and the Court Order finalised on 3 March 2016
Mr D disagreed with our investigator and in summary said:  
his understanding was that hed been paying  into a pension  his ex-wife would benefit  
from
before  he agreed to purchasing his annuity  his IFA had assured him that because 
there was no provision for dependency testing on the Isle of Man,  dependency  was 
established at the outset. So even  if Mr D got divorced his wife would still receive the 
spouse benefit
he had suffered a financial loss as hed paid for something his ex-wife  would  never 
benefit from. And when his ex-wife found out she might take him to Court again 
regarding the matter where substantial costs would be incurred 
although Aviva had said he ought  to have contacted the Court to correct the 
settlement before  his divorce was finalised, his daughters partner had died so it 
wasnt at the forefront of his mind. He felt Aviva  shouldve reminded him to do this 
since it had made  the mistake in the first place
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me. 
I considered all of the evidence  and arguments  provided in order  to decide whether this 
complaint was one that this service should consider. I issued my provisional decision on 17 
September 2019 and said:
I have provisionally concluded  that Mr Ds complaint concerning the issues  outlined below 
should not be considered  by this service.  I am satisfied the subject matter has been dealt 
with by a comparable dispute-resolution scheme.  
1.Aviva  failing to provide him and his IFA with correct information about his annuity at 
the time of his divorce
2.Aviva  refusing to pay a spouses annuity to his ex-wife in the event he dies 
before her
3.Aviva  refusing to rewrite his annuity  on a single life basis
So these aspects of Mr Ds complaint are ones I may dismiss. And I do not think, 
having carefully considered everything, there is any reason I should  not exercise my 
discretion to dismiss here.  
However I do provisionally conclude that Mr Ds complaint about  the adequacy or 
otherwise of the information Aviva provided to Mr D and/or his IFA at the time the 
annuity was set up is something  we can look into.
Ref: DRN16731185Mr D and Aviva responded to my provisional decision.  In summary Mr D said:
hed taken out his annuity believing it would always be in his then wifes name
he and his wife had met with his IFA prior to agreeing to the annuity to ensure 
his wife would have no issues claiming  the annuity  when he passed away
his IFA advised  dependency was tested  at the outset and that thered be no 
problem with Mr Ds wife claiming the annuity- this convinced  Mr D to purchase 
the annuity in the first place
he wasnt aware at any time prior to purchasing his annuity  that dependency  
testing differed between  the Isle of Man and the United Kingdom. None of 
Avivas literature had explained this
although Aviva said it wasnt responsible  for his decision to purchase his 
annuity he believed  it was, given that the decision hed made had been  based 
on information hed received from Aviva  as well as his IFA
life events such as divorce which could impact  an annuity shouldve  been 
explained in Avivas annuity documentation
if hed been  told at the outset  that dependency  would  be tested on his death he 
wouldnt have purchased his annuity
hed suffered a financial  loss as a result of purchasing his annuity and not being 
provided with sufficient information at the outset
Aviva responded and in summary said:
it appeared that Mr Ds complaint about  the advice provided  to him at the outset 
had been ignored
if Mr Ds IFA had provided  correct information  when his annuity was set up he 
wouldnt find himself in the situation  he was now in
Mr Ds IFA shouldve known the implications of Isle of Man legislation  on 
dependency testing  on annuities
I considered the matter  again and my view remained as set out in my provisional decision. I 
did however add:
() Mr Ds complaint about the adequacy or otherwise of the information  Aviva provided to 
him and/or his IFA at the time his annuity  was set up is something we can look into. So this 
is the issue this service will take forward for consideration.
On 13 December 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  on the complaint issue I determined  
our service  could consider. My provisional  findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of all the arguments  made by both parties, I have limited my response to the 
issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say:
whether Aviva provided  Mr D and his IFA with adequate information when his annuity 
was set up
Mr D says that when purchasing his annuity in 2014  he was told:
Ref: DRN16731186thered be no issue  with his wife receiving  benefits from his annuity  once  he passed 
away
the dependency of his wife (in order to benefit  from his annuity) was assessed  when  
the annuity was set up and not when he passed  away
Specifically, Mr D has said that if hed been  told at the outset that his wife wouldnt 
automatically benefit from his annuity if she divorced him before he passed  away, he 
wouldnt have selected an annuity with Aviva  in the first place.
Given Mr Ds complaint  points I think its important to distinguish between  Aviva and Mr Ds 
IFAs roles regarding the original sale and setting  up of Mr Ds annuity. 
Aviva is the product provider and administrator of Mr Ds annuity. Its duty was to ensure Mr 
Ds annuity was set up in line with his instructions  and those of his IFA. Aviva wasnt 
responsible for the suitability of Mr Ds annuity  selection in 2014.  This responsibility fell to Mr 
Ds IFA. Indeed, I note that Mr D paid for the advice he received from his IFA at the time. It 
was Mr Ds IFAs responsibility in 2014 to ensure  the annuity it recommended  was suitable  
for Mr Ds circumstances at the time. And that Mr D fully understood the nature of the 
annuity he was selecting in following the advice he received. 
Although Aviva didnt  provide Mr D with financial advice in 2014, it was required to ensure Mr 
D and his IFA had enough information so an informed decision about purchasing an annuity  
with Aviva could be made. And as Ive already  said, Aviva also had a duty to process the 
instruction it received from Mr D and his IFA correctly. From what Ive seen Aviva fulfilled its 
responsibility in both these instances.  Ill explain why. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  Aviva provided to Mr D and his IFA in 2014. I note 
several documents were made available. For example, a Key Features of the In-House 
Annuity document, a Retirement Agreement document  and an In-House Annuity Terms 
and Conditions  document. This is in addition  to the policy  documentation  Mr D wouldve 
originally had for his PPP with Aviva- the proceeds  of which  he later used to purchase his 
annuity. 
Having reviewed the available documentation,  Im not persuaded Aviva failed to provide 
adequate information to Mr D and his IFA about its in-house annuity. Especially regarding  
the matter of dependants and benefits potentially available when an annuitant passed away.  
Specifically, the Key Features of the In-House Annuity document said:
The Financial Services Authority () requires  us to give you this important information to 
help you decide  whether  our in-house  annuity  is right for you. You should read this 
document carefully so that you understand  what  you are buying ()
The document said the aims of Avivas  in-house  annuity were to () pay you a guaranteed  
income for the rest of your life [and]  () pay an income to a dependant  when you die, if you 
choose ()
Under Risks the document  said:
You cant change () your In-house annuity even if your personal  circumstances  change  
()
Ref: DRN16731187Under What happens to my annuity  when  I die the document said:
() If you want to make  provision for your spouse or civil partner after your death, you need  
to make that decision when you buy your annuity as you cant  change  your options at a later 
date. Ask your financial adviser which annuities and options best match your personal 
circumstances () Before you buy an annuity, you should speak to a financial adviser.  They 
will be able to tell you whether an annuity  is suitable  for your needs and lifestyle.
The information Aviva  provided made it clear that, where selected, Avivas in-house  annuity 
could provide an income to a dependant when the annuitant died. But it also said no 
changes could be made to the annuity in the event that the annuitants personal 
circumstances changed. Im mindful that Aviva also repeatedly  stressed the importance of 
discussing annuity options with a financial adviser to ensure  the most appropriate choice 
was made.
I think Avivas  documentation covered  what was required in the circumstances. It was for Mr 
D and his IFA to discuss  the contents of the literature and be comfortable  that having  fully 
understood how Avivas  annuity worked, that it was the most suitable annuity for Mr D given 
his requirements. If as Mr D has said, his main concern  was ensuring his wife (irrespective  of 
whether she later divorced him) received an income  from his annuity when he died, I 
wouldve expected  the confirmation  in Avivas documentation that an annuity couldnt  be 
changed following  a change in personal circumstances, to have prompted  a conversation 
between Mr D and his IFA about  what the position would be with Mr Ds annuity  if he and his 
wife did get divorced. 
The only query that I can see Mr D and his IFA made with Aviva  in 2014 came  almost three 
weeks after Mr D had already purchased  an annuity with Aviva. Specifically, Mr D asked his 
IFA:
Could you please confirm for me that once I die, then (sic) [Mr Ds then wife] will continue to 
be paid until she dies ()
Mr Ds IFA passed this query onto to Aviva. And Aviva responded confirming that Mr Ds 
understanding was broadly correct- when Mr D died, his wife would receive an income from 
his annuity. No specific query was made  by Mr D or his IFA to Aviva  in 2014 about what  
might happen in the event Mr D and his wife got divorced. 
As has already  been confirmed, for Mr Ds (now ex) wife to receive an income from Mr Ds 
annuity when  he passes away, she would either need to be his wife, or if not, qualify as a 
dependant. This is highlighted  in Avivas In-House Annuity Terms  and Conditions  
document. In this document  Aviva confirms that for a dependants income to be available 
from an annuity after the annuitant dies, the person making a claim would need to fall under 
one of the following categories; 
married to the annuitant
a civil partner of the annuitant
a dependant of the annuitant
Ref: DRN16731188Avivas documentation  goes on to explain that where the individual making the claim is a 
dependant of the annuitant,  they will at the date the annuitant dies, need to provide proof to 
the scheme administrator that they are a dependant () and entitled to receive the 
dependants pension. Aviva confirms  this is the case even where  a dependant is named on 
annuity documentation.
I dont think there was any ambiguity here about how Avivas in-house annuity operated or 
how Mr Ds then wife could benefit  from his annuity in the event he passed away. Although 
Mr Ds ex-wife is named as a dependant on some  of the literature Mr D has for his annuity, 
the annuity terms and conditions are clear that irrespective  of this, dependency  still needs to 
be evidenced when  Mr D passes away. 
I understand Mr D feels strongly that Avivas annuity literature ought to have made  reference 
to the impact  divorce might make after an annuity was set up. However  Im unable  to agree 
that the absence of any specific  reference  to this means Aviva failed to provide Mr D and his 
IFA with sufficient information about its annuity in 2014. I wouldnt have expected  Aviva  to 
specifically mention divorce  (or any of the other changes in circumstances that could occur).  
Avivas documentation  wasnt meant  to be specific to Mr Ds situation  and priorities. It was 
broadly generic and intended to cover more than one set of circumstances - this is a 
common feature of most pension providers retirement literature.
Only Mr D and his IFA in their relationship as client and advisor wouldve known the full 
extent of Mr Ds personal circumstances, priorities and concerns in 2014. It was for Mr Ds 
IFA to make  a suitable annuity recommendation to Mr D with due consideration of these 
things. 
If the contents of the documentation  Aviva  provided to Mr D and his IFA was at odds with or 
didnt completely match what Mr D says he was led to understand about how Avivas annuity 
operated I wouldve expected Mr D to raise this with his IFA or Aviva directly  at the time. 
Alternatively, Mr D couldve chosen not to purchase  an annuity at all. The fact that Mr D went 
ahead with his annuity purchase  following his IFAs recommendation indicates to me that he 
was satisfied with the selection  hed made  and understood the basis on which  his PPP was 
to be settled and his annuity  set up. Mr D completed and signed the annuity application form 
which confirmed he wanted to take an annuity with Aviva.
Im also mindful that as part of his annuity  application, Mr D signed a Declaration confirming 
hed read Avivas Retirement agreement, Key Features and In-house  Annuity Terms  and 
Conditions. The application form also said:
The Retirement agreement, Key Features and In-house Annuity Terms and Conditions  
are important and you must  take time to read them () If there are any terms you dont 
understand then you should ask for further information ().
Apart from the query Ive already mentioned which  Mr D raised after he completed his 
annuity application form I havent  seen  anything to suggest that further to the information 
Aviva provided, Mr D (or his IFA) didnt  fully understand  the annuity  selected and how it 
would operate.
I understand Mr D feels Aviva failed to provide  adequate information in 2014. Particularly on 
the basis that he was never made  aware that if he got divorced his ex-wife  would no longer 
automatically benefit from his annuity. But based on the available  evidence Im unable to 
agree with his position on the matter.  I havent seen anything to suggest the information 
Ref: DRN16731189Aviva provided in 2014 indicated Mr Ds ex-wife would automatically  benefit from his annuity  
when he passed  away. Indeed I consider Avivas  documentation  was sufficiently clear as 
well as consistent regarding its position  on the matter.
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Ds sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing  his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision will likely come  as a disappointment to him. 
But for reasons  Ive explained Im unable  to find Aviva did anything wrong in the way Mr D 
suggests it did in 2014. And as Aviva didnt  provide  Mr D with any advice when he 
purchased his annuity Im unable to hold it responsible for the fact that he now feels it wasnt 
appropriate. 
I invited Mr D and Aviva to comment on my provisional decision.
Aviva responded and agreed with my provisional decision. Mr D responded and in summary 
made the following comments:
before  signing  paperwork for his annuity he asked his IFA about the issue of 
dependency because  he didnt want his wife to have any issues  benefiting  from his 
annuity when  he died. Mr D said his IFA assured him there was nothing  to worry 
about
he couldnt understand why his ex-wife wasnt automatically eligible to benefit from 
his annuity when he died. He also didnt  understand what  he needed to do to meet  
Avivas requirements so his ex-wife  qualified as a dependant  under his annuity 
he questioned  whether Aviva  made  a mistake when his annuity was set up and if it is 
therefore valid
when going  through  his divorce  Aviva said his ex-wife would benefit from his annuity 
upon his death
Avivas annuity literature shouldve highlighted that a life changing event could 
impact any provisions  made under an annuity
hed read all of Avivas paperwork but there  was a lot to take in. He felt there should 
be a list of things  to be discussed  with the person who is taking out the annuity  and 
once ticked off () signed ()
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, my decision remains  
broadly the same as before (and as set out above). That means Im not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint for the reasons Ive given. 
Mr D has made detailed  submissions to support his position and Im grateful to him for taking 
the time to do so. I have considered these submissions in their entirety. However,  I trust that 
Mr D will not take it as a discourtesy that my response focuses solely on what  I consider to 
be the central issues. The purpose of my decision isnt to comment on every  point  raised. 
For simplicity Ive summarised the relevant points in response to my provisional decision 
below and provided my responses following this.
Mr D has said that prior to signing annuity paperwork in 2014 he specifically asked his 
IFA about  the issue  of dependency  because he didnt  want his wife to have any issues 
benefiting from  his annuity in the event of his death. Mr D said his IFA assured him 
there was nothing to worry about
Ref: DRN167311810I appreciate Mr Ds frustration that his annuity  doesnt operate  in the way he says he was led 
to believe it would at the outset. But Aviva  isnt responsible for what Mr Ds IFA may have 
advised him about its annuity regarding the issue of dependency. As Ive already said, Im 
satisfied Aviva provided Mr D and his IFA with enough information  so an informed decision 
could be made about  whether purchasing its annuity  was appropriate  based  on Mr Ds 
needs. If as Mr D says, his IFA assured him he had nothing to worry about  regarding his 
then wife benefitting from his annuity  when he died and that this is at odds with how he now 
understands his annuity operates, this is something  he may wish to raise with the IFA he 
dealt with in 2014. Aviva cannot be considered to be at fault for any advice or alleged  
misinformation Mr D feels his IFA gave  in 2014.
As I said in my provisional decision of 13 December 2019:
I think  Avivas  documentation covered what was required in the circumstances. It was for Mr 
D and his IFA to discuss  the contents of the literature and be comfortable  that having  fully 
understood how Avivas  annuity worked, that it was the most suitable annuity for Mr D given 
his requirements. If as Mr D has said, his main concern  was ensuring his wife (irrespective  of 
whether she later divorced him) received an income  from his annuity when he died, I 
wouldve expected  the confirmation  in Avivas documentation that an annuity couldnt  be 
changed following  a change in personal circumstances, to have prompted  a conversation 
between Mr D and his IFA about  what the position would be with Mr Ds annuity  if he and his 
wife did get divorced ()
If the contents of the documentation  Aviva  provided to Mr D and his IFA was at odds with or 
didnt completely match what Mr D says he was led to understand about how Avivas annuity 
operated I wouldve expected Mr D to raise this with his IFA or Aviva directly  at the time.
Mr D has said he doesnt  understand  why his ex-wife  isnt automatically  eligible to 
benefit from his annuity when he dies. Further to this he also doesnt understand 
what he needs to do to meet  Avivas  requirements  so his ex-wife qualifies  as a 
dependant under his annuity
As I explained in my provisional decision,  for Mr Ds (now ex) wife to receive  an income from 
Mr Ds annuity when  he passes away, she would either need to be his wife, or if not, qualify 
as a dependant. Avivas documentation explains that where  the individual  (i.e. Mr Ds ex-
wife) making  the claim  is a dependant of the annuitant, they will at the date the annuitant 
dies, need to provide  proof to the scheme  administrator that they are a dependant () and 
entitled to receive  the dependants  pension.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Aviva told Mr D in 2014 that his ex-wife  would 
automatically qualify  as a dependant  under his annuity in the event Mr D passed away 
before her.
If Mr D remains  unsure  of what Aviva considers to be a dependant under its in-house  annuity 
and the evidence it requires to demonstrate dependency, I would encourage him to query 
this directly with Aviva.  If the matter  remains unclear, he may wish to seek  financial advice.
Mr D considers Aviva  made  a mistake when it set up his annuity. He questions 
therefore whether his annuity is valid 
Ref: DRN167311811Based on the available evidence I havent  seen anything to suggest Aviva  made  an error 
setting up Mr Ds annuity. Aviva set up Mr Ds annuity on the basis  that he selected  an 
annuity which included  the provision of a dependants income in the event he passed away.  
Aviva sent written confirmation  of this to Mr D and his IFA at the time. Avivas product 
literature confirmed the basis on which Mr Ds annuity operated so Im unable to conclude 
any error was made by Aviva when it set up Mr Ds annuity or that it failed to provide Mr D 
and his IFA with enough  information  about the annuity before it was selected.  
Mr D says that when going through his divorce  Aviva  said his ex-wife would benefit 
from his annuity  upon  his death
This isnt something Im able to comment on. As I confirmed in my provisional  decision of 17 
September 2019, the matter of what Mr D was told by Aviva when he was going through  his 
divorce has already  been dealt with by a comparable dispute resolution  scheme. As such I 
exercised my discretion to dismiss this aspect of Mr Ds complaint. Ive only therefore been 
able to consider  Mr Ds complaint about  the adequacy or otherwise of the information Aviva  
provided to Mr D and/or his IFA at the time his annuity was set up in 2014.
Mr D says Avivas literature shouldve highlighted that a life changing event  could 
impact provisions made under an annuity
I addressed this point  in my provisional  decision of 13 December 2019. Again, Im unable  to 
agree with Mr D and must repeat what I said previously:
I understand  Mr D feels strongly  that Avivas annuity literature ought to have  made 
reference to the impact  divorce might  make after an annuity was set up. However Im unable  
to agree that the absence  of any specific reference to this means  Aviva  failed to provide Mr 
D and his IFA with sufficient information about its annuity in 2014. I wouldnt have expected  
Aviva to specifically mention divorce  (or any of the other changes in circumstances that 
could occur). Avivas documentation wasnt meant to be specific  to Mr Ds situation and 
priorities. It was broadly generic and intended  to cover more  than one set of circumstances - 
this is a common feature  of most  pension providers  retirement literature.
Only Mr D and his IFA in their relationship as client and advisor wouldve known the full 
extent of Mr Ds personal circumstances, priorities and concerns in 2014. It was for Mr Ds 
IFA to make  a suitable annuity recommendation to Mr D with due consideration of these 
things.
Im also mindful that Avivas annuity  literature did say:
You cant change () your In-house annuity even if your personal  circumstances  change  
()
Mr D says he read all of Avivas paperwork but there was a lot to take in. He felt there  
should be a list of things to be discussed with the person who is taking out the 
annuity and once  ticked off () signed  ()
I appreciate what Mr D is saying here.  But I think the point hes making relates to his 
concerns about  his IFAs advice process  and not Avivas actions. Aviva provided  Mr D and 
his IFA with adequate information about  its in-house  annuity, but as Ive explained it was Mr 
Ds IFAs responsibility in 2014 to ensure  the annuity  recommended was suitable  for Mr Ds 
circumstances. And that Mr D fully understood the nature of the annuity he was selecting  in 
Ref: DRN167311812following the advice  he received. Im unable to conclude that Aviva is at fault for Mr Ds 
concerns in this respect.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I do have considerable sympathy  for Mr D. Its clear  hes 
disappointed with my conclusions and that he still feels  strongly  Aviva  failed to provide 
adequate information about  its annuity in 2014.  I can appreciate how upset Mr D is given his 
belief that hed made specific provision for his ex-wife  under  his annuity. But for the reasons 
Ive explained  Im unable to find Aviva  did anything wrong in the way Mr D suggests  it did at 
this time. And I must emphasise  and repeat that as Aviva didnt provide Mr D with any advice  
when he purchased his annuity  in 2014,  Im unable to hold it responsible  for the fact that he 
now feels it wasnt appropriate.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1673118