K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs W took out with a store card in 2000.  Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice about it. But 
Mrs W has said the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Ws application form for the store card.  This included  a 
section on PPI, with a space for Mrs W to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Mrs W has 
signed in the space.
Based on this, I think its likely FICL  made it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice about the 
PPI. And that she chose  to take it, knowing  she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs W any personalised advice about  the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to her. This means it didnt have to check it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure she got the information she needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than shes  told us she wouldve  been 
entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant  she didnt  need to rely on any savings she had to 
make her repayments if she wasnt earning. So it looks like it couldve been  useful to her.
Mrs W has mentioned  the maturity of a pension she was due to receive.  But she hasnt given 
us much detail about it and, from what shes  said,  it appears she didnt have it at the time of 
the sale. So I still think the PPI couldve been  useful to her. And so I dont  think  better 
information about the PPI wouldve put Mrs W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN13104132my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1310413