K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that his credit  card provider, CCUK Finance Limited, sold a debt that he 
didnt really owe them, to a third-party  company   wholl Ill refer to as A. And that CCUK 
later delayed sending  a refund he was owed on to A to clear that debt. Hes also unhappy 
about a default on his credit file relating to this card.
background
Mr T took out a credit card with CCUK in September 2002. When  he was sold the card, he 
was also sold a Payment  Break Plan (PBP).
The account  was then sold to A in December 2014  with an outstanding balance of 
£1,747.03. By that point Mr T had paid £1,044.89  in fees for the PBP. Hed also incurred 
default fees totalling £1,120.
Mr T made no repayments after January 2015 and a default was registered by A in 
November 2015  when the balance  was £2,448.
In April 2017 CCUK agreed to refund the PBP charges and default fees plus interest. They  
did this as a gesture of goodwill and without admission that the PBP had been mis-sold or 
that any fees had been  wrongly charged. The total refund came to £11,896.86. The 
outstanding account balance at that point was £1,600 so CCUK sent Mr T a cheque for 
£10,296.86 and said the outstanding account balance he owed to A was now £0.
In July 2017 A explained that it wouldnt  be removing the default marker because, regardless 
of the PBP charges and subsequent  refund, Mr T had still failed to make  the minimum 
payments required  in 2015, and the default  was applied correctly.
Mr T complained to CCUK in February  2019  that the PBP refund still hadnt been applied  to 
reduce the outstanding account balance; the balance with A was showing as unsatisfied  on 
his credit file. Mr T added that the debt should  not have been transferred to A in 2014  
because the balance should have  been showing as in his favour.
CCUK apologised and in July 2019 agreed to clear  the balance  with A. Mr Ts credit file now 
shows the debt was satisfied on the same day as the default (i.e. in November 2015).
Mr T brought  his complaint to us. He said the account should never have been sold to A and 
that the default on his credit file had been  unfairly applied  because it was the PBP charges 
that had led to his financial difficulties and caused him trouble in making  the repayments. He 
said the default on his credit  file had made raising  the capital he needed  for his business 
more expensive (higher  interest), and he said he wanted A to remove the default. He said 
CCUK were  at fault because theyd  failed to settle  the outstanding  balance in April 2017 as 
theyd said they would; thereby prolonging the length of time the default  remained 
unsatisfied on his credit  file.
Our investigators view
Our investigator partly upheld Mr Ts complaint. She said the default should have been 
marked as satisfied in 2017 but that CCUK had delayed in clearing  the outstanding account  
balance until July 2019. As for the impact of this delay,  she noted that Mr T had taken out 
new mortgage products  in June 2019,  before the debt to A showed as satisfied, but she 
Ref: DRN18320512didnt think it was likely CCUKs delay had made  getting those mortgage products harder or 
more expensive for Mr T. She said this because Mr Ts credit file showed other  defaults  that 
werent satisfied until after hed taken the mortgage  products out. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the outstanding  debt continuing  to show as unsatisfied between  
May 2017 and July 2019 the investigator asked CCUK to pay Mr T £200.
Our investigator also said it was unlikely  the charges for the PBP had been the cause of 
Mr T falling behind with his repayments in 2015  and noted that his credit file shows  he 
defaulted on several other accounts around that time. She also explained that CCUK were 
entitled to sell the debt to A in 2014  as there was an outstanding balance.
Finally, she didnt think the default  should  be removed from Mr Ts credit  file; she thought  it 
had been correctly and fairly added in the circumstances.
CCUK agreed to pay Mr T £200. But Mr T didnt agree with the outcome. He said hes not 
interested in compensation for CCUKs delay in clearing the outstanding balance. What  he 
wants is for the default to be removed from his file because  the PBP refund means CCUK 
owed him money  in 2014/2015,  not the other  way around,  and they sold a debt that did not 
really exist to A.
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
The scope of this decision
When I reviewed  this complaint, I identified  that it was A that registered the default on Mr Ts 
credit file, not CCUK. Its therefore been explained to Mr T that I cant  look at his complaint 
about the default in this decision.  I can only look at his complaints against CCUK; namely, 
his complaints that CCUK sold a debt to A in December 2014 that he wouldnt have had but 
for the erroneous  PBP charges and, later, failed to send a portion of the PBP refund to A to 
clear the outstanding balance until July 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
In December 2014 Mr T owed CCUK almost  £1,750  and they sold that debt to A. Mr T says 
this shouldnt have  happened because the subsequent PBP refund hes received  means 
there was, in effect, no debt for CCUK to sell to A in 2014. But as Mr Ts debt wasnt  solely 
made up of charges for the PBP I cant agree that there wouldnt have been any debt in 
2014 if the PBP hadnt existed. As the investigator said, I dont think  the PBP charges are 
the reason Mr T was unable to make  his repayments.
From the account statements I can see that Mr T had used his card to make purchases and 
withdraw cash between  October 2002  and September 2006 and had been charged interest 
on those transactions.  Hed also been charged  default fees over that period.
He stopped using the card for new spending  in September 2006,  but his repayments 
between then and December 2014  were  often less than the combined merchandise interest 
and default fees; so, the balance wasnt reducing. With this level of repayment  and interest  
Ref: DRN18320513continuing to accumulate on the outstanding  balance, I cant  say for certain that if there  had 
been no PBP charges thered have been  no debt for CCUK to sell to A in December 2014.
Its also the case that at the time of the sale, 2014,  there was no dispute about  the PBP. 
Indeed, theres  still been no admission by CCUK that any fees  PBP or default   were 
wrongly charged. So, I dont think CCUK did anything wrong by selling Mr Ts debt to A when 
they did. It was a valid debt owed to CCUK by Mr T at the time.
Mr T is also unhappy that when CCUK agreed  to refund the PBP fees, all the default fees 
charged on the account, and the interest applied to those fees,  they didnt clear his debt with 
A as they said they would. In fact, it took CCUK until July 2019 to action this refund because 
of some unspecified confusion on their part.
I agree  with the investigators assessment that this delay was unacceptable and led to the 
default A had placed on Mr Ts credit file showing  as unsatisfied for just over two years  
longer than it should have. But I also note that Mr Ts credit  file has now been updated and 
shows the debt as having been satisfied on the same  day as the default, in 2015. This 
change, along with the £200  payment CCUK have  agreed to pay for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mr T by their delay is, I think, a fair remedy. I dont think theres any 
evidence Mr T was caused financial detriment by this delay. I say this because even if CCUK 
had made  the payment to A and A had updated  the default as satisfied in May 2017,  Mr Ts 
credit file in 2019  (when he was applying for mortgage products) would not have been free 
from defaults.
As Ive said,  I cant look at whats at the heart  of Mr Ts complaint  the fact a default  was 
registered and remains on his credit file in relation  to this card. I appreciate that Mr T will find 
this disappointing.  But the owner  of the debt since December 2014, A, is responsible for its 
own actions and CCUK neither applied, nor can arrange for the removal of, this marker. So, 
its simply not something I can make a finding  about  in this decision which is solely about  
CCUK.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  If theyve not already done so, CCUK Finance Limited  
should pay Mr T £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused by their delay in settling 
Mr Ts outstanding balance with A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1832051