K821x#15complaint
Mrs Z has complained about the decision by British Friendly Society Limited  to decline her 
claim for benefit under her income  protection insurance policy.
background
Mrs Z, who is Polish but has lived in the UK for over ten years, took out the policy  in 
September 2016. The policy would  pay benefit,  after a waiting period of eight weeks,  for a 
period of up to five years in the event that Mrs Z was unable to work  because of illness or 
injury.
In October  2016, Mrs Z stopped working. She made a claim under the policy  stating that 
shed been diagnosed with plantar  fasciitis,  a condition of the foot.
After obtaining  medical  evidence,  British  Friendly said Mrs Z had been experiencing 
problems with her foot before she took out the policy which  she should have declared in her 
application. It said if she had done so it would  have imposed an exclusion for any condition  
relating to her feet. It said it had imposed this exclusion retrospectively  and therefore was 
declining her claim.
Mrs Z appealed against British Friendlys  decision. She said it had based its decision on 
incorrect information in a letter by her GP which was due to the GP mistakenly interpreting 
what she had said (Mrs Zs first language is Polish). She provided a correction by her GP. 
British Friendly still thought the evidence  suggested  Mrs Zs foot problems pre-dated the 
start of the policy and so wouldnt change its position. Mrs Z therefore referred her complaint  
to us.
Our investigator was first of all minded to not uphold  the complaint  as she considered the 
medical evidence  suggested Mrs Zs foot problems were pre-existing.  However,  Mrs Z then 
provided a further  corrected document which persuaded our investigator that Mrs Zs 
complaint should  be upheld.  She recommended that British  Friendly accept the claim.
British Friendly didnt  accept the investigators  findings. It considered that the original 
medical records were consistent with one another and showed  that Mrs Zs foot problems 
existed before she took out the policy. It considered  the relevant health professionals had no 
choice but to amend the records  after Mrs Z told them  they were inaccurate  as to when she 
first felt pain and that this shouldnt mean the original records  should  be disregarded.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
shall explain  why.
Mrs Z applied for the policy on 9 September 2016. She was asked:
Ref: DRN19282272Have you had any bone fractures  or any disease or disorder of your joints,  ligaments, bones 
or muscles, including any conditions or pain affecting your hips, shoulders, knees, wrists or 
any joints  in the last five years?
Mrs Z disclosed a broken nose but made  no mention of any problem with her feet.
Mrs Z was asked  to tell British Friendly about  any changes  to her health between  the time of 
her application  and the time the policy started. Mrs Z didnt  disclose any such changes  and 
the policy started on 16 September 2016.
On 12 October 2016, Mrs Z attended her GP surgery complaining of right heel pain. The GP 
diagnosed her with plantar fasciitis, recommended pain killers and signed her off work for 
two weeks.
On 27 October 2016, Mrs Z returned  to her GP surgery. She said her right foot pain was 
ongoing. She said she had booked to see a specialist abroad the following week.  Her GP 
prescribed medication and continued to sign her off work. 
On 2 November  2016, Mrs Z attended a medical centre in Poland. The original medical 
record, once translated,  stated: The patient  came  to the surgery  with pain of the right heel, 
the pain has been suffered for several  weeks.
After her claim  was declined, Mrs Z asked for this medical record  to be amended to state 
that the pain had been experienced since 12 October 2016. The medical centre  agreed  to 
this.
On 8 November  2016, Mrs Z went again to her GP surgery.  She mentioned the Polish 
appointment and it was noted that her foot was a bit better.
On 11 November 2016, Mrs Z again  attended  her GP surgery and was continued to be 
signed off work.
On 2 December  2016, Mrs Z attended her GP surgery and was seen by Dr S, a locum GP. 
Dr S has since confirmed that Mrs Z attended with her husband  who was acting as her 
translator. Dr S referred Mrs Z to the musculo-skeletal service. In the referral letter Dr S 
stated: [Mrs Z] complains with a long history of plantar  fasciitis  which  she states was 
diagnosed in Poland where I believe a ? ultrasound  / X-ray showed a chip? spur. He ticked  
a box indicating that Mrs Z had been  experiencing symptoms for over two years.  The GP 
record contained similar information.
After her claim  was declined, Mrs Z told Dr S that he had wrongly described the history  of 
her condition. Dr S wrote to British Friendly stating:
The patient was seen by me on 2 December  2016  with symptoms of plantar fasciitis and 
she described to me at that time shed had some  problems  in her feet for a long time in her 
own country with some  ? chip, which I misunderstood as plantar  fasciitis. She reports  that 
she hasnt had this problem before and it only started in October 2016 when she presented 
to the GP on 12 October 2016.
Mrs Z complained to the surgery  and Dr S later agreed to add a further  note to the medical 
record as follows:
Ref: DRN19282273"[Mrs Zs] husband  translated  on behalf  of the patient, when I obtained  a history from the 
patient on 2 December 2016.  I documented that [Mrs Z] had long history  of plantar fasciitis 
which was diagnosed in Poland  and that ultrasound /X- Ray reports  had showed a possible 
chip, or spur. I understand now from the patient  that in fact she had not had any symptoms 
of plantar fasciitis  until October 2016  and my understanding  of the previous history was 
incorrect."
British Friendly declined  the claim on the basis of the original records  of the appointments of 
2 November 2016 and 2 December 2016. It considered that these, in combination,  showed 
that Mrs Z had foot problems which pre-existed.
Taking the 2 November  2016 record first of all, I agree with British  Friendly that the 
amendment from several weeks to since 12 October 2016 will have been made only 
because Mrs Z requested this and it is likely  that the original document  reflects what  Mrs Z 
said at the time of the appointment. However,  while several  weeks is not specific, I dont 
find it to be inconsistent with Mrs Zs version  of events.  She had first attended her GP 
surgery to report this problem three  weeks earlier and it is likely that she had been 
experiencing problems before she decided to make  the GP appointment. The policy had 
started almost seven weeks earlier and I dont  think British  Friendly could reasonably rely on 
the fact that Mrs Z had reported pain for several weeks to conclude that the pain must  have 
been present  before  the policy  started. I think the reference to several  weeks implies  the 
pain probably  started  sometime  between the policy starting and Mrs Zs first visit to her GP.
This means  British Friendly is reliant  on the GP record of 2 December 2016 to decline the 
claim. I acknowledge  British Friendlys point that the surgery had little choice but to amend 
the record to reflect  what Mrs Z was now saying and I would normally  regard the original 
record as a more  reliable indicator of what was said at the appointment. However, in this 
case there was a clear  problem of communication. Mrs Z needed to have  her husband with 
her to act as interpreter but it is clear from the question marks which  Dr S inserted that he 
was still unsure of what he was being  told.
British Friendly accepts  that Mrs Z hadnt been  diagnosed with plantar fasciitis before  the 
policy started but says that even when Dr S wrote  to it to clarify the situation he still said that 
Mrs Z had experienced problems with her feet for a long time in her own country. It said that 
Mrs Z should still have declared this which would have  caused it to put an exclusion on the 
policy. However, I dont think even Dr Ss letter of clarification is reliable. He still uses a  
question mark and I think it unlikely  that Mrs Z would have reported a long history  of feet 
problems in her own country given that she had lived in the UK for over ten years.  After 
Mrs Z complained to the surgery,  Dr S added a further note to the file which  avoided 
implying that Mrs Z had any foot problem before October 2016.
Mrs Z has provided  evidence to show she has never accessed the Polish national health  
services accident and emergency facility  for any foot problem.  There  is nothing in her GP 
records to show she had experienced such problems before her visit on 12 October  2016.  
Overall, I consider that, with the exception of the record of the 2 December 2016 
appointment, the medical evidence is entirely  consistent in showing that Mrs Zs foot 
problem developed after the policy had started.  I consider that the original 2 December 2016  
record is anomalous  and unreliable. This was due to the communication  difficulties between  
Dr S and Mrs Z, with her husband acting  as interpreter. I think Dr Ss attempted letter of 
clarification is also unreliable for the same reason.  It think  the eventual amendment to the 
record, which avoids stating that Mrs Z had any long-standing foot problem, is consistent 
with all the other medical evidence and is the most  reliable version.
Ref: DRN19282274This means  that British Friendly has no reasonable grounds for stating that Mrs Z failed to 
disclose a problem  with her feet when she applied to take out the policy and therefore  
cannot exclude her claim. Her GP certified her as unfit to work. I therefore think  British 
Friendly should accept  her claim and pay her benefit.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require British Friendly Society Limited to remove the exclusion for foot problems from 
Mrs Zs policy, accept  her claim and pay her benefit in line with the policys  remaining terms 
and conditions. It should interest to backdated  benefit payments at the annual simple  rate of 
8%, calculated from the date each benefit  payment  was due to the date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If British  Friendly considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs Z how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs Z a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1928227