K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont cover  surgery he had abroad  under his 
travel insurance policy.
background
Mr P has travel  insurance as part of his current account. In November 2018 Mr P travelled 
abroad for an extended trip. In December 2018  he unfortunately became unwell and was 
admitted to hospital  as an emergency for pneumonia and urinary  retention.  Mr P received 
treatment and was discharged from the hospital with a catheter  still in place. He continued 
on his trip and travelled to a different country.
Whilst in this second country  Mr P became unwell and was admitted to hospital. His son 
called AXA to discuss what should happen next as Mr P needed surgery and the family 
wanted him to have  this in the first country  where  Mr P had been unwell. The doctors 
treating Mr P confirmed  he was fit to fly to the first country and have the surgery  there.  AXA 
explained that it wouldnt cover this surgery and instead, if Mr P was fit to fly, he should 
return home to the UK and have the surgery on his return.
Mr P flew back  to the first country  where he was unwell and had the surgery  done. He paid 
for the surgery himself  and then contacted AXA to claim under the policy  and be reimbursed. 
AXA declined this claim as it maintained  the surgery wasnt  covered under the policy.  It said 
that only emergency treatment was covered and as Mr P was able to fly to another  country 
to have the surgery, he shouldve instead  flown home.
Mr P disagreed. He said there would be a long wait in the UK due to the NHS  and he 
needed the surgery urgently. He complained to AXA about the outcome of his claim and also 
about the service  hed received. AXA stood  by their original decision in relation to the claim, 
but it offered  £150 compensation for not keeping Mr P and his family  updated  during the 
claim. Mr P disagreed with the claim outcome,  so this part of the complaint was referred  to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. He didnt think  AXA needed to pay the claim 
as it didnt fall under the cover provided to Mr P by the policy.  Mr P disagreed  as he said it 
was a medical emergency and the second  health issues were  as a result  of the first 
problems. So the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the medical evidence provided  by AXA and what  Mr P and his family told AXA 
during their calls. While I appreciate why Mr P wanted to have the surgery abroad   
considering how quickly he could have it done and how unwell he was feeling   this doesnt  
mean his travel policy covers him. Travel policies  are designed to cover  emergency medical 
treatment, which is different from urgent treatment. If Mr P was unable to travel  home  without 
the surgery, this would be different. But its clear that Mr P was able to fly with his health 
condition, as he flew from one country to another to have the surgery. And even if hes 
correct and the surgery was needed  due to the initial problems he had abroad, that still 
doesnt mean hes covered. The key question is whether or not Mr P could travel home to 
Ref: DRN10479742the UK to have  the surgery  and the evidence on file suggests he could, even if he wanted 
to have the surgery abroad. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ps policy terms. Considering he was having the surgery abroad, not asking 
to come home early, the relevant section is Section B  Emergency medical, additional 
accommodation and travelling costs. No other sections cover the cost of medical  treatment 
abroad. As Ive already explained above, there  is a difference  between emergency and 
urgent. So already, I consider AXA is fair to decline Mr Ps claim, considering to be covered 
under this section  his treatment needed  to be deemed emergent,  which  I have no medical  
evidence to suggest it was. Further this section  sets out, under Special conditions  relating to 
claims  point 4, that:
The intention of this section is to pay for emergency  medical/surgical/dental  
treatment only and not for treatment or surgery  that can be reasonably  delayed  until 
Your return to Your Home  Area. Our decisions regarding  the treatment or surgery 
that We will pay for (including repatriation to Your Home Area) will be based on this.
This makes it very clear to Mr P that he wont be covered  and this was reiterated to him by 
AXA whilst he was abroad. This term is clearly presented and is what AXA has applied in 
this case.
On that basis I think AXA has acted fairly in declining Mr Ps claim. It clearly told him before 
he had the surgery  that he wouldnt be covered and as he hasnt met the policy terms, this 
was the correct information. As Mr P chose to go ahead with the surgery  despite what AXA 
told him, he needs to cover its cost. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1047974