K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has held him at fault for an accident  
after he made a claim  on his car insurance  policy. 
background
In June 2018 Mr M was involved  in an accident  with another car. His car was damaged, so 
he made a claim on his car insurance policy. He explained to UKI that he was stationary at 
the time and he says the other car came  from behind at speed  and hit his car.
UKI inspected his car and thought it was uneconomical to repair it. So it said it would settle 
the claim by paying  him the cars market value  less his excess. Mr M was unhappy UKI 
wouldnt repair his car and he also thought it was unfair that UKI was deducting his excess 
as he said he wasnt at fault for the accident.
The other drivers insurer reported the incident to UKI and said that Mr M had pulled into the 
other drivers  lane and into the path of their oncoming vehicle. It held Mr M responsible for 
the accident.
UKI reviewed the claim and it thought  the evidence suggested that Mr M was most likely to 
be at fault for the accident. So it told Mr M that it was going  to settle the other drivers claim 
on a without prejudice basis. Mr M didnt agree with UKIs  decision  as he maintains  that he 
was stationary at the time. He reiterated  that he thought the other driver was speeding, 
potentially to beat the traffic lights. Mr M then sent a completed accident report form to UKI, 
but UKI didnt think this added anything new. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said it wasnt  our role to say who was at 
fault for the accident. She said shed looked  at Mr Ms claim notes and she thought UKI had 
considered images  that were supplied including  the area of impact and google  map.  So she 
was satisfied that, based on the available information, UKI dealt with Mr Ms claim in a fair 
and reasonable manner.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. He maintained that the accident  wasnt his fault as 
he said he was stationary at the time.  And he reiterated that he thinks the other driver was 
trying to beat the lights. He wants UKI to refund  his excess.
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I acknowledge that Mr M feels strongly  that he wasnt at fault for this accident. But, as the 
investigator said, this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing  an accident, as that 
is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether UKI has carried out a fair 
investigation, reviewed  all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Ref: DRN10322072Mr Ms policy, like all other car insurance  policies, allowed  UKI to take  over and carry out 
the negotiation, defence or settlement  of any claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim, on 
the best terms it thought fit. And it had the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But 
it was required to exercise this right fairly  and reasonably.
In this case I can see that UKI reviewed the photographs of the damage to Mr Ms car and it 
said that the area of damage  suggested that Mr M was changing  lanes at the point of impact. 
And it thought that the area of damage was more likely to support the other drivers version 
of events. 
I note Mr M says that he was stationary at the time of impact and he says he had been  for a 
few minutes. But, as I said above,  its not my role to say whether Mr M was at fault for the 
accident or not. In this decision, I need  to assess whether  UKI has considered all the 
evidence before reaching the conclusion it did. And Im satisfied that it did do so  including  
Mr Ms statement that he was stationary.
However, UKI did settle the claim on a without prejudice basis.  So Mr M is free to pursue the 
claim against the other driver privately  should he wish to do so.
Mr M is also unhappy UKI wrote  his car off, rather than repair  it, and that he was required to 
pay his excess.  The terms of the contract gave UKI sole discretion as to how to settle the 
claim. So it was entitled  to decide whether to repair Mr Ms car or pay him the market  value.  
UKI decided  that it was uneconomical  to repair Mr Ms car. I note Mr M disagrees  with this. 
But his car was around 16 years old at the time of the accident  and had travelled  around 
100,000 miles. So it didnt have a high market value. Ive looked at the extent  of the damage 
from the accident, which suggests that it was likely to require a more than minor repair.  So I 
cant say that it was unfair for UKI to decide  to settle the claim by paying the cars market 
value, less the excess, rather  than repair it.
I note Mr M is unhappy that he had to pay his excess. But he was contractually required to 
pay the excess on every claim he made,  regardless of whether he was at fault for the loss or 
damage or not. So UKI was entitled  to deduct his excess from the claim settlement.
As UKI settled the claim on a without  prejudice basis, Mr M could look to recover the excess  
from the other driver  directly if he can subsequently show they were  at fault for the accident. 
But, I cant say that UKI has treated him unfairly in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1032207