K820x#14complaint
Mr S, on behalf of D, a limited company, complains that Bluefin Insurance  Services Limited 
failed to provide  the expected service, resulting in D paying more than was necessary for its 
insurance. 
background
D is a residents property  management company. It took out an insurance policy with Bluefin 
in 2001, which covered  the residents block of flats and various other things,  such as 
property owners liability  and employers liability. The policy was only offered  via Bluefin and 
was branded Flatsure . 
In 2001, the policy cost £561. The next year, 2002,  the policy cost £723. These prices  
included insurance  premium tax (IPT) at 5%. 
In 2017, Bluefin provided a renewal  quote  of £1,544 (including IPT at 12%).  Mr S got quotes 
elsewhere, and contacted  Bluefin  to say that its renewal quote didnt appear  to be very 
competitive, and to ask if Bluefin had searched the market each year.  
Bluefin replied to say that: 
We do not approach  the market every  year, as the insurers do not favour  Clients whom 
they see in the market  every year.
However, Bluefin  proceeded to get quotes from various insurers. It then used the cheapest  
of these to negotiate a lower price with Ds existing  insurer  which  matched the lowest price  
Bluefin had found. That price was £1,054 (including  IPT at 12%). D did not renew the policy, 
as Mr S found a cheaper policy elsewhere.
Mr S complains that Bluefin didnt meet Ds expectations, which  he says were as follows:
We understood them to be an insurance broker who would conduct an unbiased  search of 
the market or negotiate with insurers to get us the cheapest premium.
In particular, Mr S has pointed to Bluefins 2017  renewal  invitation and quotation  report, 
which included a section  that said:
Market search  we will
Identify insurance product features which  match your demands and needs
Review relevant insurers for their pricing  policy, policy  terms, service  standards,  claims 
service etc
Collate underwriting  information and submit to insurers  on your behalf
Monitor receipt of insurers quotations and negotiate price, terms and conditions, as 
necessary
Mr S complains that Bluefin failed to do this. And that this resulted in D paying more  for its 
insurance that it otherwise would have. 
Around the time of the complaint, Mr S became aware that the Financial Conduct  Authority  
(FCA) had issued a final notice and imposed a fine on Bluefin in December 2017. Mr S feels  
that D was a victim of the practices that led to the FCA taking this action. And that Bluefin 
Ref: DRN15983272only searched the market  and negotiated  with the insurer in 2017 because  the FCA action 
had forced  it to do so. 
Mr S wants  Bluefin to refund D 30.8% of the total premiums paid over the years. This is 
based on the reduction in price achieved in 2017  after Bluefin searched the market. Plus, 
interest for the time D has been  without this money.  And a sum for stress and 
inconvenience.
In Bluefins response to the complaint, it said:
 we have  been  clear  about whether our recommendation  is based  on an assessment of 
the alternatives or whether  we have just approached the holding insurer  (as required by the 
regulations which govern  this type of insurance and in line with the related undertaking made 
in Section 1 of our Terms of Business  Agreement).
There are a number of factors that [Bluefin]  takes  into account when making such a 
recommendation, not just the headline  price. These include the insurers financial security, 
the consistency of their underwriting, the scope  of the policy  cover  and the efficiency of their
claims handling.
Indeed, you will hopefully  acknowledge  that [Bluefin] would be failing in our duty as your 
agents were we to base  our recommendation to you on cost alone.  The renewal process 
allows for discussions in relation  to a clients requirements such  as cover and price. 
However, the Market  Selection and Recommendation paragraph of our reports did meet the 
regulatory requirements by making  it clear that we had only approached  a single Insurer.
Our investigator felt that Bluefin had fulfilled its obligations as per its terms of business. That 
Bluefin had been clear about when  it had only approached one insurer before providing a 
quote. And that Bluefin  had negotiated  with or changed insurers  when the existing insurers 
wanted to increase the underlying rates used to set the price or wanted  to impose terms that 
Bluefin felt were  unacceptable.  Our investigator  was not persuaded that the issues  set out in 
the FCAs final notice  had impacted how D had been treated by Bluefin. And he didnt think  it 
would be appropriate  for Bluefin to refund any of the premiums paid or pay other 
compensation. So, he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr S disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed with this, and Ill explain my 
reasons. 
Bluefins terms of business  
Bluefins terms of business  is a five-page  document that set out the basis of the relationship 
between Bluefin and D. It appears to be a standard document used for all of Bluefins 
customers. So, it covers the whole  range  of services that Bluefin offers.  
In 2010, under the section  Our service, it states the following:
Ref: DRN15983273We are an independent  intermediary committed to providing quality advice and service plus 
products from a range of insurers.
This appears  to be a broad  and general description of Bluefins  business. Not a description 
of the exact service it provides to every customer in every circumstance. As you read 
through the following paragraphs on the first page,  I think it is clear that each customer  will 
be provided a service tailored to suit its own circumstances.
Under Our service  it also states: 
We may offer certain products from one provider only where  this enables us to maximise 
value for our customers. We may also recommend preferred suppliers in situations  where  it 
is appropriate for our customers. For certain  customers this may involve a panel of insurers  
We will confirm  prior to inception of cover if any of these  circumstances  apply to you.
I think this paragraph  makes it clear that for certain products Bluefin will only use one 
provider where it judges  this to provide the best value for its customers. But for others  it may 
use a panel of insurers. And that Bluefin will confirm  to each customer  what it has done.  So, 
I would expect Bluefin  to have made  it clear  to D that it had only approached one insurer 
where that was the case. 
The next paragraph states:
We will advise you and if applicable,  make a personal recommendation after we have  
assessed your insurance needs. This will include the type of cover you require together with 
the costs involved.
It goes on to say:
We will keep you informed of the progress of our negotiations and upon receipt of your 
instructions we will place,  amend  or renew insurance cover  with insurers.  We shall assume 
unless you confirm to the contrary in writing,  you have  authorised  us to agree the terms
and conditions of your insurance policy  with insurers consistent with your instructions.
In 2012, the terms  of business changed slightly to say under Our service:
We are committed  to providing  you with quality advice, service and insurance products. As 
an intermediary and your agent we owe various  duties to you and will advise you as 
necessary if circumstances occur that may create  a possible  conflict of interest. 
And: 
We will advise you and will make a personal  recommendation  after we have  assessed  your 
insurance needs. This will include the type of cover  you require together with the costs 
involved. We undertake  to explain  the main features of the products  and services  that we 
offer to you as well as the basis on which we have provided information and/or advice.
In 2013, the terms  of service were updated again,  but the above paragraphs remained the 
same as in 2012.
So, in summary,  I think the terms of business set out that Bluefin will provide advice and may 
provide a personal recommendation  where  it has assessed a customers needs. It will 
Ref: DRN15983274explain the basis on which it has made a recommendation. It will negotiate  with insurers (or 
sometimes just one insurer   in which case it will tell the customer this) and place,  amend  or 
renew insurance cover with insurers as instructed to by the customer. 
The terms of business documents  set out the agreement between Bluefin and D. So, based 
on the evidence  available, if I think Bluefin has done  what the terms of business set out, then 
its unlikely that I would uphold this complaint. Unless, that is, I found that Bluefin had done 
something else wrong that caused  D a financial loss.
From the terms of business, I dont think that Bluefin made any explicit  or implicit 
undertaking to get D the cheapest premium.
the annual renewal invitation  and quotation reports
In each year, Bluefin provided D with a renewal  invitation and quotation report.  The earlier  
reports are no longer available, which is understandable given how much time has passed. 
But I have no reason to think that D was not provided with such  reports  in those early years 
of the policy. 
Broadly speaking, the renewal invitation and quotation reports  set out Ds insurance  needs, 
the cover  Bluefin was recommending and how much this would cost.  It was then for Ds 
directors to decide  whether  to go ahead with taking out or renewing the insurance on the 
terms offered. 
Mr S refers  to the following passage  from the renewal invitation  and quotation reports as 
reinforcing Ds expectations of the service Bluefin was providing to it:
Market search  we will
Identify insurance product features which  match your demands and needs
Review relevant insurers for their pricing  policy, policy  terms, service  standards,  claims 
service etc
Collate underwriting  information and submit to insurers  on your behalf
Monitor receipt of insurers quotations and negotiate price, terms and conditions, as 
necessary
However, I think the context in which this passage is set out in the renewal invitation and 
quotation report is important. The page was either an attachment to the renewal invitation 
letter or the first page of the quotation  report and was entitled What  do we do for our 
Commercial customers?. The introductory paragraph of the page ends with the following 
sentence:
To provide you with a flavour weve listed examples of what  we do for our customers  but 
please note that in some situations this may only involve part of what is listed.
So, I dont think it is reasonable for D or its directors to take the information on this page as 
being an exact description of what Bluefin has done  or has committed to do for it before 
preparing the renewal invitation  and quotation report. I think  it is important to consider  the 
information provided overall. 
In each quotation report there is a section that explains how Bluefin made its selection of the 
insurance it was offering.  I have set out some examples below:
Ref: DRN159832752009  there  is a section that describes The basis of our marketing. This says, In providing  
our recommendation for our Flatsure policy, which is a product uniquely available from 
Bluefin, we have  only offered you a single  product.  For risks that are acceptable  to this 
facility we do not offer any other  insurers products.
2010  there  is a section that describes The basis of our marketing. This says, For the 
policy for which you have  been quoted this insurer is our preferred supplier for this class  of 
insurance. There are other  insurers who offer this class of insurance  however we have 
selected this insurer taking into account a variety of factors  such as level of cover, 
competitive pricing  and claims  service.
2011  there  are sections as follows:
Our recommendations and the reasons for them  which says, This insurer is our preferred 
supplier for this class  of insurance. There are other  insurers  who offer this class of insurance 
however we have  selected this insurer taking into account a variety of factors such as level 
of cover,  competitive pricing  and claims service. 
How we made our selection, which states,  We have chosen  to approach one insurer for 
this specific type of insurance.  
In 2012 the report contained the same  wording under Our recommendations and the 
reasons for them . For How we made our selection, the wording had changed  to Single 
insurer  We have  chosen to approach one insurer for this specific  type of insurance.
Bluefin has been  unable  to locate a copy of the 2013 quotation report.  But Im satisfied that 
D received this, as there is an email on file showing that it agreed to the renewal and 
specifically acknowledged  the price payable.  Given the wording of the documents  before and 
after 2013, I have  no reason to think the 2013 quotation report would not have made similar  
points to those  I have highlighted, and most likely  had the same or very similar wording.
In 2014, 2015, 2016  and 2017,  the quotation report had the same wording as in 2012 about 
How we made our selection and explained that Bluefin had chosen to approach a single 
insurer.
Looking at the overall information provided  in the annual renewal invitations and quotation 
reports, I think Bluefin  provided advice and a personal recommendation having assessed Ds 
insurance needs. It told D each year that it had only approached  a single insurer. And 
following instruction  from D it renewed  the insurance  cover. That is in line with what  I think 
Bluefins terms of business  said it would do. 
using a single insurer
The parts of the renewal invitations  and quotation reports Ive highlighted above said that 
Bluefin had approached a single insurer each year before inviting renewal of the policy. 
However, other information  provided to D prior to renewal indicates that in 2010 and 2012 (at 
least) Bluefin  had done more than that. 
In 2010, the renewal invitation explained  that the insurer of the policy was changing. The 
attached notice explaining  this said that the existing insurer had decided to adopt a different 
underwriting approach which meant  it wanted  to increase the rating  structure of the policy 
Ref: DRN15983276(increase the price). And that Bluefin had experienced a decline in the claims service 
provided by the insurer since  it changed its claims handling agents. 
The notice explained that Bluefin didnt think these changes were sustainable, so it had 
carried out lengthy negotiations with a number of insurers. This resulted in a new insurer 
being chosen, which had agreed to maintain the existing underwriting  approach  and employ 
the claims handing agents that had previously  provided a good level of service under the 
policy. 
The notice went on to highlight  some changes to the policy wording  but said that, except for 
a minor exclusion under  the Products Liability  section, the cover provided was, in practice, 
the same  as before. It went on to state  that the decision to change  insurer was based on 
what Bluefin felt was the best solution for its clients  in terms of rating (price), policy wording 
and claims service. 
In 2012 Bluefin decided  to change the insurer again.  The renewal invitation stated this, and 
an attached notice explained the reasons. The existing insurer had notified  Bluefin of its 
intention to significantly increase the rates, which Bluefin didnt feel was sustainable.  A new 
insurer had been  found that had agreed to apply the existing rating  structure but to remove 
cover for legal expenses. The notice invited D to contact  Bluefin if it wanted to obtain  a 
quotation for separate legal expenses  insurance to replace  the cover that had been 
removed. And confirmed that Bluefin  strongly believed this change was the best solution for 
its clients in terms of rating and policy wording.
Bluefin has confirmed that the Flatsure policy was the most suitable  policy  for blocks  of flats 
that was available to it at the time. This was due to it offering enhanced cover  as standard, 
which was not generally available on this type of policy. As well as its rating  structure (which 
Bluefin said remained  unusually stable) making  it good value.
Bluefin says it only approached other  insurers if the existing insurer sought  to increase the 
price significantly, reduce  the level of cover, or if it had other concerns about the service 
provided by the insurer. 
This appears  to be backed up by the changes that happened in 2010 and 2012. And I think 
this indicates that Bluefin was mindful  about whether the existing insurer  was the best 
available for the Flatsure policy it was offering its customers, even  though in most  years it 
continued with the same insurer. 
I can see from the price information  Bluefin has provided that between 2006  and 2013  the 
rating structure didnt  change. And in 2014  it reduced. So, there are no other points  at which  
it would  appear  that Bluefin ought to have looked  to change the insurer (given  what its said 
about when it would  do so).
Bluefins approach to the Flatsure  policy means  the price wasnt negotiated individually with 
the insurer for each  customer. It was negotiated based on the book of business  as a whole 
(all the customers covered by the Flatsure policy). This means that every customers  
premiums were based on the same underlying rates. 
My understanding is that if a customer contacted Bluefin to try and negotiate  a better  price,  
Bluefin would see what it could do for that individual customer.  That is not an unusual  
approach within the insurance market, where if a customer engages with the price of a 
policy, they may be offered a discount.  I would not have expected Bluefin to take that sort of 
Ref: DRN15983277action every year unless asked to do so by an individual customer   given the information  it 
provided to D at each  renewal. 
the FCA final notice  and fine
The FCA final notice explained that:
during the period 9 March 2011  to 31 December 2014 Bluefin implemented higher risk 
business strategies  that: (1) focused  on increasing the volume of business placed with its 
sole shareholder between  2011 and 2013; and (2) favoured the placement of particular types  
of business with a list of preselected products known as preferred facilities.
Im satisfied that the first part of this is not relevant to this complaint. This is because Ds 
policy was not underwritten by Bluefins sole shareholder. 
However, I can understand why Mr S has concerns about the second part of what the FCA 
said. It appears that Bluefin only offered the Flatsure policy to customers, like D, who were 
seeking cover for blocks of flats. That seems to fit in with the description of a preferred 
facility set out in the final notice. 
Having said that, this doesnt affect  my decision.  The final notice indicates that Bluefin did 
some things wrong in relation to preferred facilities only between March  2011 and December 
2014. By December 2014, the final notice  says that Bluefin had resolved those issues. So, 
even if I did think the issues raised by the FCA were directly  relevant here (and Im not 
persuaded they were), I couldnt  reasonably conclude that they caused an issue  for D 
outside of the period stated in the final notice. 
As far as I can see, how Bluefin handled  Ds renewals from at least  2010 onwards did not 
change. That was before  the issues identified by the FCA, which suggests that how Bluefin  
handled Ds renewals  did not conflict with the FCAs expectations at that time.  
Bluefin quoted only for the Flatsure policy  either  using the existing insurer,  or in 2010 and 
2012, the new insurer that Bluefin had chosen. And Bluefin notified D that this is what it had 
done. That approach appears  to have been in line with Bluefins  commitments as set out in 
its terms of business and doesnt conflict with anything it told D in the renewal documents.  
Having considered Bluefins wider responsibilities  at the time  such as the law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards,  codes  of practice  and what  I consider 
was good industry  practice at the relevant time,  I have not found reason to uphold this 
complaint. 
Ds expectations
Mr S says that Ds expectations  of Bluefin were as follows:
We understood them to be an insurance broker who would conduct an unbiased  search of 
the market or negotiate with insurers to get us the cheapest premium.
In view of my findings above, I dont think that Bluefins  terms of service, its annual  renewal 
invitations or its quotation reports  could reasonably have given D this expectation of 
providing it the cheapest premium. And Ive seen nothing to suggest (prior to the complaint) 
that D had made it clear  to Bluefin that the cheapest price  was the most important 
consideration for it  above, for example, the levels of cover and service provided. And Ive 
Ref: DRN15983278seen nothing else that persuades me that Bluefin explicitly told D that it would get it the 
cheapest premium.
Bluefin had a responsibility to provide suitable  advice based on Ds circumstances. And the 
Flatsure policy that it offered does  not appear  to have been unsuitable. Bluefin also had to 
communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. I dont think  the 
communication and documents discussed above  contradicted that responsibility.
The annual quotation reports  set out why Bluefin  had offered the Flatsure policy to D. And 
the factors it had taken into consideration. While price was one factor, it was not the only 
one. And the reports made clear that the Flatsure policy  offered benefits  that wouldnt 
generally be found as standard in this type of policy. And that was an important factor in why 
Bluefin recommended  it. 
Mr S has indicated  that some of that cover  went above and beyond what D required. But that 
doesnt mean the policy was unsuitable.  Bluefin had notified D of the cover it was offering. 
And Ive seen nothing  that wouldve indicated to Bluefin that D felt this was more 
comprehensive than it required, or that it wanted a more basic policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  
of D, to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1598327