K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Oakam Ltd failed to contact her about missed  payments on her debt 
when she had a debt management  plan (DMP)  in place and unfairly transferred the balance 
to a debt collection  agency.
background
Miss C took out a loan with Oakam in 2014 with an original repayment total of £1,264. 
Because she was struggling with her finances,  Miss C organised a debt management plan 
with a debt management company but it seems no payments were made to Oakam  by the 
debt management  company.  In 2018,  Oakam passed the outstanding debt to a debt 
recovery agency which contacted Miss C. She then complained to Oakam because she 
hadnt received  any correspondence about  the debt though she didnt dispute the fact that 
the debt existed.
Oakam rejected  Miss Cs complaint because it said the debt management company was to 
blame. So Miss C came  to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld so Miss C asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand Miss Cs upset at finding  
out her loan wasnt being paid off, but based on what Ive seen, I dont think  Oakams treated 
her unfairly and Ill explain why.
There was clearly a problem with the management  of her DMP by the debt management 
company and I understand Miss Cs looking  into complaining about them. But this complaint 
is about Oakam so I need to consider whether its been fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. I can see Miss C contacted Oakam in 2016  because she 
was thinking about paying off her debt directly instead of through  the debt management 
company. But in the end, she didnt do this. It seems  the main problem with the payments 
was due to failings by the debt management  company,  so I dont think Oakams to blame 
about this.
Miss C accepts she still owes  money  on the loan but she complains that Oakam shouldve 
contacted her about the debt earlier and shouldnt have  passed the debt to a debt collection 
agency. The information provided  by Oakam shows  it hasnt added interest onto the debt or 
charges for the missed  payments. The outstanding balance  it passed on to the debt 
collection agency was £857 which was the original repayment total less the £407 Miss C had 
previously paid towards the loan. Therefore I dont think Miss Cs suffered any financial loss 
as a result  of Oakam not contacting her earlier.
I understand the situations been upsetting  for Miss C but I need to look at the way Oakams  
acted overall. The main problem seems  to have been with the debt management company 
failing to take payments. And Miss Cs raised  questions about the balance the debt collection 
agency is pursuing her for. But based on what Ive seen, Oakam treated her sympathetically 
in that it froze interest  and removed charges on the account even though  it didnt receive 
payments for some time. So taking  all the circumstances into account,  I dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN18147092my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1814709