K822xcomplaint
A Debt Adviser (DA) complains on behalf  of Mr L about the service Mr L has had from 
Progressive Money  Limited (PML).   Mr L would like an apology, for PML to amend its 
policies, to consider  reducing and or freezing interest for those  in financial hardship and to 
only contact him via his debt adviser. He would  also like compensation for stress and time.
background 
Mr L says he struggled with financial payments and in 2017 sought advice from a national 
debt advice organisation. He says all of his creditors have responded positively to his 
situation except  PML. He says PML constantly calls him aggressively demanding he reduces 
his outstanding balance. And has continued to contact him direct  despite him asking to deal 
with him via his DA. 
He says he feels the interest PML charge is excessive.  And says PML breached data 
protection legislation by sending him someone elses details.
He says he has found the whole situation very stressful. And its also taken up a lot of his 
time taking  phone calls.
PML said it was its policy to keep in touch with customers and to call each  month even if a 
debt advice charity is involved.  This is to encourage clients  to try to clear their accounts. And 
it noted on two phone  calls Mr L did make additional  payments. It assured Mr L his own data 
was secure and advised him to securely  destroy anything  that he had received that didnt  
relate to him. It said it didnt agree to a repayment  plan as Mr L hadnt provided all of the 
information it needed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found it reasonable there  was no official 
payment plan in place.  And although  Mr L asked PML to call his DA he also gave PML 
permission to call him direct. He noted PML offered £25 compensation for one call when it 
called Mr L rather than his DA. He didnt find the phone calls threatening or malicious. He 
confirmed that no interest  had been added to Mr Ls account since he fell into arrears and 
felt interest had been applied correctly. He suggested Mr L contact the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO) about  the data breach as he found  no evidence  Mr Ls 
information had been mishandled. He didnt feel there were grounds to recommend  further  
compensation.
Mr L didnt accept this view. He felt the outcome was unfair as PML was the only creditor 
that used aggressive  tactics with continuous  call. He said he was paying interest.  The DA 
said it was her understanding  that there was a repayment plan in place when Mr L put in his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his view. He clarified that Mr L 
was paying contractual interest not any additional interest or charges associated with the 
account going into arrears. He confirmed no formal payment plan was agreed as PML hadnt 
received all of the information it needed  to agree  one.  It specifically queried a payment to a 
family member. However it had accepted  payment via the debt advice charity on an informal 
basis.
Mr L didnt accept this view. The DA said that Mr L would still like a final decision by an 
ombudsman mainly around the issue of interest  which PML had consistently said it hadnt 
Ref: DRN13401472charged but had. She referred to the adjudicators first view saying that PML hadnt charged 
interest due to Mr L s financial difficulties which wasnt true.  She said she had provided 
PML with all the information it requested including an explanation  of the payment to a family  
member and no further requests were made. 
Our adjudicator considered these comments but as he was unable to get any evidence of 
what had been  discussed he couldnt  confirm if PML had all of the information it needed to 
confirm the details of Mr Ls finances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and his DA have  raised a number of other  issues during this complaint. And although 
the main reason the DA said Mr L wanted an Ombudsmans view was the issue  of interest  I 
thought I ought  it would be helpful  to cover  some of the other  issues  as well.
Mr L initially said he wanted PML to consider amending its policies and to consider  reducing  
and or freezing interest  for those in financial hardship. I need to explain that in this complaint 
I can only consider what PML has done and what effect if any that has had on Mr L. And 
PMLs policies are not something I can ask it to change.
Mr L has said he found PMLs phone calls aggressive and threatening. I have listened to a 
number of phone calls between Mr L and PML.  As a result of these phone calls Mr L did 
make two additional payments. I can appreciate the DAs point  that Mr L might  have  felt 
pressured to pay more and that this wasnt necessarily fair on other  creditors he owed 
money and had agreements with. I didnt feel that PML aggressively asked for additional 
payments and Mr L seemed willing to pay them. 
I can appreciate that PML did make some comments about attachment  of earnings orders  
and made  reference  to problems other  clients had in the past in not making payments. But 
these were balanced by a constant reassurance that Mr L was doing the right thing in trying 
to sort out his affairs and make the payments. I didnt find the tone of the phone  calls 
threatening. And have noted PML did offer during  two phone calls Mr L the option of settling  
the debt by paying 50% of what was owed. I appreciate Mr L couldnt make that payment but 
I thought it was a reasonable  offer for PML to make  at that time.
In the phone calls Mr L seemed  happy to talk to PML. He did ask that PML contact his DA 
but also gave  permission to call him direct. PML offered £25 compensation on one occasion 
when it contacted him direct. I thought  that was reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. I felt it showed that PML had taken on board Mr Ls request to contact his 
DA. My understanding is that payment  has not yet been made.
Turning to Mr Ls account and actual debt I have seen that in April 2017 a direct debit 
payment failed, two payment were  made  in May 2017 with one failing,  no payments were 
made in June, July or August 2017 and then regular payments agreed with the debt advice 
charity were  made  of £44.99 until April 2018  when  regular payments of £22.91  have been 
made.
Ref: DRN13401473I understand the payments of £44.99  and then £22.91 were payments  the debt advice 
charity agreed with Mr L. There seems to be some confusion as to whether PML formally 
accepted the debt advice  charitys payment plans or not
The DA says it provided all the information  PML asked for. We have gone back  to PML 
about this. It has now confirmed to us that it had all the information it required by 11 April 
2018. Although  it has said that it reviews its accounts on an annual  basis  so the next review 
will be February 2019.
I think the important  thing here is that whether or not PML formally or informally  accepted  the 
reduced payments  it did so as far as I can tell at no disadvantage to Mr L.
Looking at the issue of the interest charged I can understand why, from our adjudicators 
letter, Mr L thought  no interest had been  added to his account.  Mr L correctly pointed  out 
that was wrong.  He has given us statements which show that interest  has continued to be 
added. 
Ive looked at the information PML sent us. That said no additional interest had been  added.  
Looking at PMLs  terms and conditions I can see that PML could  have charged  default 
interest and charges but didnt do so. I think there  has been some confusion  between the 
interest on the account which  has continued to be added. And additional interest PML could 
have charged but didnt.  
Mr L has said all of his other creditors have suspended interest payments and charges. We 
do expect businesses to respond positively and sympathetically when consumers have 
financial problems. But that doesnt  mean that interest and charges  will automatically  be 
suspended. And just because other  creditors may have done so it doesnt automatically 
follow that PML was wrong  to carry on applying contractual interest. I think it has acted 
reasonably in not adding  additional default interest and charges which  according  to its terms 
and conditions it could  have done  so. And I have noted it hasnt  taken any legal action over 
the outstanding payments which it also could have done.
Mr L has asked for compensation for stress  and inconvenience. I appreciate dealing with a 
debt is stressful and can take up some time. But that doesnt necessarily mean there  are 
grounds for compensation. In this case I havent agreed with Mr Ls view of the pone calls he 
had with PML.  I do think  that PML has made  some efforts to help Mr L. It has accepted  
reduced payments,  hasnt  charged  additional interest which  it could have done and offered 
to settle the debt by accepting just 50% of the outstanding amount.  So  I dont feel I have 
any reasonable grounds to ask PML to compensate  Mr L as he would like.
But as I understand  it PML has not yet made the £25 it offered Mr L as compensation for 
contacting him directly.  I do think it should  pay this if it hasnt done so already.
.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Progressive Money Limited should pay Mr L the outstanding £25 
compensation payment.
Ref: DRN13401474Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1340147