K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited advised him to take out an 
unsuitable exclusively  long-term savings plan in 1988.
background
An adjudicator at this service  noted  that Mr K was single, a sponsored  student  with limited 
income and no previous  investment experience. As a result  he did not feel this savings plan, 
designed exclusively  for the long term, was an appropriate recommendation.
Sanlam did not agree, pointing out that Mr K paid premiums over a lengthy period which 
would indicate  that he had a need to save for the longer term thus the product served its 
purpose. Further, the cost of life cover  was minimal and ensured that returns  were tax-free.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are, in my view,  countless reasons why most 21 year olds would be unable  to predict 
whether they would want to, let alone be able to afford to, commit to an exclusively long-term 
savings plan, lasting  a number of decades. Everything from job changes,  periods of 
unemployment, marriage, family commitments and other financial priorities are likely to 
impact on their desire and/or willingness to keep to a savings plan for two to three  decades  
ahead.
Yet this plan required such  a long-term  commitment to deliver worthwhile returns  given the 
structure of the charges. Ive seen  no persuasive evidence to suggest this was an 
appropriate recommendation.The fact that Mr K did retain the plan for many years  is no 
justification for a flawed  recommendation.
Equally important, the brochure is highly misleading - as has been highlighted in many  
previous ombudsman decisions concerning this particular product.  It strongly implies  that 
this savings plan is suitable for a wide range of short,  emergency  and medium  term uses  
and objectives  when this is clearly not the case. The charging structure makes  it only cost-
effective as a long-term savings vehicle.
I am therefore not persuaded that Mr K was in an informed position to decide  whether to go 
ahead with this recommendation, which I am satisfied was not a suitable recommendation in 
any case.
Sanlam must therefore pay compensation by comparing the surrender sum Mr K received 
with what the same  monthly  payments would have delivered if invested in a more suitably 
flexible investment product. To do this it should  use the formula  recommended by this 
service for risk-based investments dating back to this period i.e. the Bank of Englands base 
rate plus 1%.
If this comparison shows a loss it should then deduct the sum Mr K received on surrender 
before adding 8% simple  interest per annum  to the resultant  loss figure  from that date to 
the date of settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19191132I recognise that this is a different formula  to that proposed by the adjudicator. I therefore 
informed both parties of this proposed  alteration to the compensation. Neither commented 
on this change.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Sanlam  Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1919113