K822xComplaint
Mr H complains that Contis  Financial Services Limited wont  refund transactions  made from 
his account that he disputes.
A representative has been  used by Mr H to bring  this complaint, but for simplicity Ill just refer 
to him throughout this decision.
Background
Mr H says that fraudulent  transactions totalling £2,377.93 were  made  on 23 March  2018  
this figure  is made up of ten separate transactions, across a range of different types of 
merchants.
The day before the disputed  transactions,  Mr H says he was at a cash  machine he regularly 
uses, and he believes his card was cloned  then.
The 23 March 2018 was a Friday, and over the following weekend the transactions began  
showing on his account. On Monday 26 March 2018 Mr H reported  the disputed  transactions  
to Contis and his card was stopped shortly afterwards.
After a bit of a delay,  Contis responded to Mr H about the disputed  transactions. They said 
they were reliant  on a number of external parties  replying  to them.  And said after a thorough  
investigation they saw no reason to believe fraud had been  committed,  as the transactions 
were made using an IP address that had been  used to log in to Mr Hs online account. 
Mr H complained about this, and asked Contis to consider this further.
Contis replied in July 2018 and explained they still wouldnt refund the transactions.  They 
said theyd investigated  the transactions in depth and after speaking  to the merchants were 
satisfied the transactions were known to Mr H. They also said the IP address used for the 
transactions was the same one used  to log on to Mr Hs online account on 23 March  2018  
and that all the transactions were completed  using online  security  details, which  would have 
only been known  to Mr H. Finally, they said theres a cash machine transaction  that had 
been disputed  for £250, but the actual card had been used and there  were  no wrong PIN 
attempts  so they didnt  think that was fraud either.
Unhappy with this Mr H asked us to look into things, but he didnt  report  the £250 transaction  
as disputed to us.
Ref: DRN16559112In support of his complaint, Mr H told us:
Hed never set up the online security  details Contis  have referred  to
He thinks people  cloned his card  and they may have set up these details
Hed managed  to speak to one of the merchants  who Ill call Shop A  and theyd 
identified one of the transactions as fraudulent  so refunded that. On the two 
transactions they allowed  to go through the items were  picked up, but in another 
country. And theyd  also stopped around  30-40 other attempts to use Mr Hs card 
details.
Hes managed to speak to another merchant   who Ill call Insurance H. These 
were four separate  transactions for insurance policies, and he was told the 
transactions were  suspect, the insurance  policies hadnt been fulfilled, and says the 
people doing  this were known. This merchant was based in the same country the 
items purchased  through Shop  A were picked  up from.
Hed also managed  to talk to another merchant  who Ill call Shop T  and on 
3 April 2018 six further transactions had been attempted.  All of these transactions 
were rejected, as Mr H had been  in touch with Contis around a week earlier  and his 
card stopped.
Another one of the merchants  when searching  for them  online  come up as linked 
with a lot of fraudulent transactions.
Once our investigator  had considered  all of the information provided  so far, he asked  Mr H 
some further  questions to get a better understanding of what had happened. Mr H told us:
Hed gone to withdraw £250 from a cash machine, but this was declined, and the 
card was returned afterwards
He was on his own, and didnt notice anyone  around him
He kept his card in his wallet, and still had it after hed been  to the cash  machine
Has an online account with Contis, but rarely uses  it
Doesnt really use computers, never  shared his online details with anyone  including  
his partner that he lives with
Doesnt know what Contis are talking  about when theyre referring  to the online 
security details
When we first took the case  on in September 2018,  we asked Contis  for their file. When  the 
case was allocated to our investigator in June 2019,  we hadnt received it. We asked for the 
file again, and after a further chaser Contis eventually replied towards  the end of July 2019. 
They repeated the points  made in their response  to Mr Hs complaint and provided  us a copy 
of the email they sent Mr H turning down his claim. They also gave us the terms and 
conditions for Mr Hs type of account.
Ref: DRN16559113About a week later, we asked Contis for further information  replying to the individual  whod 
contacted us. We received an out of office  for them, so contacted Contis  general mailbox.
We didnt receive a reply  by the deadline, so contacted Contis  again on 15 and 21 August. 
On 22 August 2019 Contis  replied and said theyd be in touch with us the following day, but 
we didnt hear from them. We chased them again  on the following occasions:
30 August 2019  by email to the individual who sent us the previous information
4 October 2019  by email to the individual who sent us the previous information
11 October 2019  by phone, the individual wasnt available, and we were  told to 
email the same  person whod not previously replied again
21 October 2019  by email to the individual and Contis general  mailbox   and in 
this email explaining if theres no reply wed need to consider the case  based on the 
evidence we have.  And that means its likely to be one we uphold.
Because our investigator didnt receive  a reply by the final deadline, he went ahead and 
considered the complaint. In summary, he said Contis  hadnt provided enough information to 
show the transactions were genuine  and because of this he felt Contis  should refund Mr H 
the full amount of £2,377.93. He also said that because of the delays in the investigation and 
poor communication, he felt Contis should pay Mr H £100 also.  And finally, he said the £250 
cash machine transaction hasnt been brought to us as part of this complaint, so hed not 
considered it.
Mr H accepted our investigators findings. But, despite these findings being issued at the start 
of November 2019, weve not had a reply from Contis. We reminded them  the deadline had 
passed on 27 November  2019, and they needed to get in touch with us. At the start of 
December 2019,  and with no reply from Contis, we then told them  and Mr H we were 
passing this complaint forward  for an ombudsman to consider  and both parties had a 
further two weeks  to provide any additional  information theyd like considered.  As at the date 
of this decision theres still been no reply  from Contis.
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider  before reaching my decision 
though I noticed we didnt  have Mr Hs full statements on file, so I asked for those to be 
provided. Mr H called up Contis who gave  them  to him the same day we got in touch with 
him.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At present Contis have  still not replied with the information we asked them  for at the end of 
July 2019. Nor have  they replied to our investigators view upholding this complaint or 
messages sent afterwards saying this complaint would be passed  to an ombudsman. Im 
satisfied based  on the contacts Ive outlined above  that Contis  have  had sufficient time to 
respond.
Because of this, Im also satisfied its appropriate for me to make a finding on this complaint 
without any further  information from Contis. And, like our investigator, because the £250 
cash machine transaction hasnt been disputed with us, Ive not considered it.
Ref: DRN16559114Contis have made a number of arguments  such as the IP address used for all the disputed  
transactions is the same one used to log in to Mr Hs online account. Theyve said they 
contacted the merchants  and received information  that satisfied themselves this was 
genuine.
So, I do find it extremely surprising that Contis wouldnt then provide all of this information to 
us to support  their reasons  for not refunding these transactions. If accurate it would very 
clearly contradict what Mr H has told us  and theyve had ample opportunity  to do so. But 
without providing  the evidence  theyve  used to reach these conclusions I cant  assess  it  so 
I dont think I can reasonably rely on this information.
This means  my main focus is thinking about  what the terms and conditions  of the account 
say, and whether  when  overlaying that with the information from Mr H  along with any other  
evidence I have  that Im satisfied Contis should refund these transactions. It wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to order Contis to refund the transactions, even in the absence  of Contis 
information, if I felt it was more likely than not Mr H had made  or otherwise authorised  them.
The terms of Mr Hs account say if Mr H tells them the transactions  werent authorised  by 
him, hes taken all reasonable  steps  to keep  safe his security information like his PIN and not 
acted fraudulently  then theyll refund those  transactions.
Mr Hs version  of events are plausible to me. Hes said he was using a cash machine on 
22 March 2018  and this is when his card was cloned. He says he was there to make  a 
regular transaction  but couldnt  get any money  out. I can see on his statements no money  
was taken this day and he does regularly use cash machines  to take money  out. Hes said 
he still had the card after this  that seems true too as a transaction for £250  was carried out 
the following  day.
Contis hasnt provided any technical  evidence to show how the disputed transactions were 
authenticated. Im never going  to know for sure how someone was able to obtain Mr Hs 
details, but from what  he has been  able to find out by speaking  to the some of the merchants 
involved himself, its clear  that all of the disputed transactions were made online. More than 
one merchant has told Mr H they dont recognise  his genuine  address.  So, its likely Mr Hs 
card details have been  obtained by a third party  and then used  to make transactions  where  
no physical card was present.
Mr H has also been consistent in that hes never given away  any of his security  details, 
doesnt really do online  shopping (which is again  proven by his statements), and never set 
up the online security  information. So, Ive not seen any evidence to persuade  me Mr H 
failed to keep  his details secure. And in addition to this, Contis  havent given me anything  to 
show how and when  the online security information was set up.
Mr H told us he spoke to Shop A theyd recognised one of the transactions thatd been  
debited from his account for £499.99 was fraudulent, so refunded this to him. I can also see 
this refund on his statements.  This isnt one of the ten transactions outstanding.
Ref: DRN16559115Looking at the transactions to Insurance H there were four insurance  transactions  all on the 
same day, to the same company. This is something Id consider to be highly unusual,  and 
Mr H has told us Insurance H felt the same. In addition to this, another one of the disputed 
transactions was to a different insurance company  so in total five different transactions 
made on Mr Hs card to insurance companies on the same  day which could on its own 
suggest unauthorised use of the card. And when speaking  to at least  one of the companies, 
they didnt recognise  Mr Hs address or postcode  which  suggests  it wasnt him that set up 
these policies.
Ive also checked  Mr Hs comments  that one of the companies come  up as linked with 
fraudulent activity quite  a lot online. This is true, they do. That doesnt mean in itself its 
automatically a fraudulent  transaction  but when added to the above observations I think  it 
adds weight to Mr Hs claims all of the transactions were fraudulent.
There is a discrepancy in the information  provided  by Mr H  in that when he initially  
contacted us, he said there were people around  him at the cash machine  on 22 March 2018, 
and then later on said there wasnt. But months  had passed between these two 
conversations so it doesnt surprise  me his recollections could  be a bit different  and this on 
its own isnt enough  to persuade me Mr H is responsible for these transactions.  
So, coming back to the terms of the account on balance Im satisfied taking into account all 
of the information Ive outlined above  Mr H didnt authorise the transactions,  did keep all of 
his security details safe and hasnt acted fraudulently. Ive not seen enough  to persuade  me 
that Mr H made these disputed transactions or that hed agreed that someone else could 
make them on his behalf. It seems more  likely  than not that a third party  made these 
transactions using  details  obtained from Mr Hs card. So, Im going to order Contis  to refund 
the disputed transactions.
Our investigator also awarded £100  compensation for the delay in acknowledging Mr Hs 
complaint. Complaint handling on its own isnt a regulated activity, meaning  we cant always 
consider it or make compensatory awards  when thats the only issue being raised. But where  
its closely linked to the regulated activity then we can.
Contis are classed as an authorised electronic  money institution under the rules, and the 
issuing of electronic  money is a regulated activity. In Mr Hs case, payment of the disputed  
transactions by Contis would be classed  as the issuing of electronic money, so is a regulated  
activity. And the delay  in Contis replying to Mr Hs complaint about the transactions  is linked 
closely enough for me to be satisfied I can include it in this decision. Im also satisfied its 
appropriate to award  compensation, given  the difficulties and delays Mr H faced getting this 
issue looked into.
Ref: DRN16559116My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  Contis Financial  Services Limited to:
Refund all the disputed transactions to Mr H  totalling £2,377.93
Pay Mr H £100 compensation
Contis Financial Services Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on 
which we tell them Mr H accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this then they must  
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8%* a year simple.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Contis to take off tax from this interest.  Contis  must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1655911