K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance  & Leicester) mis-sold  
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
Mr and Mrs L re-mortgaged the following year,  and the PPI policy continued to cover their 
new mortgage until it was cancelled in 2007.
The PPI was in Mr Ls name. The policy would have  paid £350 a month  for up to 12 months 
per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs L and to Santander on 21 October  2019. I summarise my findings:
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need  to decide what 
I thinks most likely  to have  happened, based on the information I have.
Id seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  application form. It includes a section on 
insurance. It lists various types  of insurance, including Mortgage PaymentCover (a form 
of PPI). And it asks the applicant  to tick the box if they would like Santander to arrange  
cover, and it will send  them  an application form. There  are ticks in three of the boxes, 
including the box for PPI.
Mr and Mrs L have said consistently  that they completed the application form 
themselves, but that the tick in the PPI box is different from other ticks on the form, and 
is not in their writing. Theyve  suggested  that the tick was inserted by someone else after 
they completed the form.
Having  considered all the evidence thats been provided, I accepted that it was possible 
that the tick was inserted after Mr and Mrs L completed the form. And I accepted  that it 
may have been inserted by someone else. I couldnt be sure when, or by whom, the tick 
was put there. But I didnt think, on balance, that this meant they didnt decide  to take the 
PPI. I said Id explain why.
Santander has provided  us with a copy of a mortgage interview form, signed by Mr and 
Mrs L three days after they signed their mortgage  application  form. So it looked as if they 
met with the bank and discussed  their mortgage requirements after they completed  their 
mortgage application. 
Ref: DRN14029012I could  see that there was originally a tick in the repayment  box, against  the question  
What type of mortgage  loan do you want?  on Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage application. But 
thats been crossed out, and a theres  a tick in the endowment box. I commented that 
that also looked different  from the other ticks on the form. Taking everything into 
account, I thought it was likely that the form was amended following discussions between 
Mr and Mrs L and Santander,  possibly after theyd  signed it, to reflect what had been 
discussed and agreed.
Id also been  provided with a copy of a mortgage illustration prepared for Mr and Mrs L 
some weeks after their meeting with Santander. It itemises the monthly mortgage 
interest, the endowment policy premium, critical illness  cover, home insurance and PPI. 
The critical illness cover premium  has been  crossed out, and the total monthly mortgage 
cost amended  in manuscript  to reflect this. Again, I thought  it was likely that PPI was 
included in the illustration because Mr and Mrs L had indicated  that they at least might 
be interested in the cover.
Mr and Mrs L have referred  to a letter they received  in February  1995,  enclosing their 
mortgage offer. It explains the benefits of PPI, and refers to an enclosed leaflet and 
application form. Mr and Mrs L have  pointed out that this shows that at that stage, they 
hadnt agreed to take PPI. And I agreed that the letter suggests that they hadnt, at that 
point, applied for PPI. But I didnt think  it indicated that theyd said that they didnt want 
the cover.
Santander hasnt  been able to provide a copy of Mr and Mrs Ls PPI application  form, 
which it says they would have signed,  along with a direct debit mandate, as part of its 
usual sales process. I didnt think that was unreasonable, given the time thats passed. 
Mr and Mrs L have  said consistently that they were aware that PPI was optional,  but that 
they decided  not to take it. But I thought it was more likely, on balance, that the PPI was 
set up because following discussions with Santander, and after considering the 
information provided to them about  PPI, Mr and Mrs L decided they wanted the 
protection it offered,  and completed  and returned a PPI application form. I could 
understand how they may have forgotten  this, so many years later.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, and it didnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for them, based on what Id seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr and 
Mrs L have told us that Mr L would have been  entitled to between  three  and six months 
sick pay from his employer at the time. But if hed made  a successful  claim on the policy  
for accident,  sickness  or unemployment, it would have paid out for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. Whats more, it would  have paid out in addition to any payments Mr L 
received from his employer. So Mr and Mrs L could  have  used those to meet other day-
to-day expenses.
Id borne  in mind  that Mr and Mrs L have told us that Mr L could easily have  found  other  
work if hed lost his job, and that Mrs L, who worked fewer  than 16 hours per week, could 
have worked full-time with her existing employer if need  be. But I thought  it was unlikely 
that extra or alternative work could have  been guaranteed. The PPI would have meant 
that Mr and Mrs L didnt need  to worry about their mortgage payments while  Mr L was 
looking for alternative work  if he lost his job, or if hed been  off sick. And it would have 
avoided the need  for Mrs L to change her working  pattern,  even if it was possible, in 
principle, to do so. 
Ref: DRN14029013I also acknowledged that Mr and Mrs L have  told us that they had significant  savings 
when they took out the mortgage. But I commented that theyd chosen to protect those 
savings, rather  than taking  out a smaller mortgage. And I wasnt convinced, on balance, 
that theyd  have  wanted to use them to make their monthly mortgage payments. 
The mortgage was a long-term financial commitment, secured on Mr and Mrs Ls home, 
and the consequences of not keeping up with their monthly  mortgage  payments could 
have been serious. So taking everything  into account, I thought the PPI could have 
provided Mr and Mrs L with a useful benefit.
The cost of the policy was shown on the mortgage illustration. So I thought Mr and Mrs L 
would have understood how much  theyd need to pay for it. 
I acknowledged that it was possible Santander  didnt point out the main things the policy  
didnt cover.  But from what  Mr and Mrs L have told us about their circumstances at the 
time, I thought it was unlikely  theyd have been affected by any of these.  So I didnt think 
better information  about the PPI would  have made Mr and Mrs L decide  not to take it out.
Id taken into account all Mr and Mrs Ls comments, including  what theyve  said about 
having felt pressured  to take the policy.  But while I accepted  that Santander  
recommended the PPI to them, and pointed out its benefits, pressure is another  matter,  
and I couldnt  fairly  conclude from what  Ive been told that unreasonable pressure was 
put on them to take the cover.  So this didnt change  my conclusion.  
Taking  into account everything that Mr and Mrs L and Santander had said and provided, 
I didnt find that the PPI was mis-sold. This meant Santander  didnt have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But I explained that Santander would  pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L 
because:
When the policy was sold, Santander  got a high level of commission  and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. 
Because Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.
To put that right,  Santander had basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit  share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I thought  that offer was 
fair in this case.
further submissions
Santander hasnt  commented on my provisional  decision. But Mr and Mrs L arent happy 
with it. I summarise them below, but Ive taken all the points that theyve made  into account.
I stated  in my provisional decision that the application forms were amended with Mr and 
Mrs Ls agreement, following  an interview with Santander on 25 October 1994. But that 
cant be correct,  as the letter sent with the mortgage offer four months later states that 
Mr and Mrs L only had 14 days to change  their minds and take out PPI.
Even though I accepted that the wording of the letter Santander sent Mr and Mrs L with 
the mortgage offer suggests that PPI hadnt been  applied for, I went  on to say that 
I thought otherwise.
Ref: DRN14029014Proving  that they had applied for PPI should  be very easy. Proving that they had not is 
another matter. Theyve  done everything they can to show  that they didnt  require PPI, 
and all the paperwork confirms  their complaint. But Santander hasnt provided a copy  of 
their PPI application,  even though its been  able to provide copies of other documents 
from the time.
If the PPI was so beneficial, why wasnt it made mandatory?
When they cancelled the PPI, nobody from Santander queried it or tried to convince  
them to keep it. They think this is strange,  considering the benefits that both Santander 
and I have referred to.
They dont  feel that the benefits of the PPI were  worth the cost. The policy  cost £25-35 
per month for 25 years. Including  interest  at 3%, that amounts to £13,000 total cost, 
against a potential  benefit of £4,000  over a 12-month period.
The illustration I referred  to in my provisional decision was one of many examples and 
not what was actually  agreed to. Various details dont match  what was ultimately agreed.
They dont  see how I can detail and state  what I think they believe.
It is understandable that I stated  that where evidence was incomplete or inconclusive,  Id 
need to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened. But in all instances in my 
provisional decision in which  I expressed  a view about what I think,  I have decided  in 
Santanders favour. They  consider this to be biased, given that Ive admitted that the 
evidence is incomplete.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further points that 
Mr and Mrs L have made,  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case. Having done so, 
Im not convinced that theres any good reason  to depart from the findings  I set out in my 
provisional decision.
I explained in my provisional decision that I accepted that the tick on the application  form 
may have been inserted after Mr and Mrs L completed the form, and possibly by 
someone else. I said it looked  as if Mr and Mrs L met with Santander and discussed their 
mortgage requirements  after completing  the mortgage application form. And I thought  
that it was likely that the form was amended following discussions between Mr and Mrs L 
and Santander.  But I said I couldnt be sure when this was. That remains my view.
I commented that the letter Santander sent Mr and Mrs L with their mortgage offer 
suggests that they hadnt applied for PPI at that point. The tick on the mortgage 
application form wasnt in itself an application  for PPI. The mortgage  application form 
said that if the applicant wished Santander to arrange the cover, they should tick the PPI 
box in the insurance section,  and it would send them an application form for the PPI. It 
would then have been up to the applicant to complete  it if they wished to go ahead with 
the cover.
Ref: DRN14029015It looks as if Mr and Mrs L hadnt sent a completed application for PPI to Santander by 
the time Santander  sent them their mortgage  offer in February 1995. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont accept that that implies that they had said they positively 
didnt want the cover. And the letter doesnt say that Mr and Mrs L had 14 days  to 
change their mind about applying for PPI. Rather, it says this could be their last chance  
to apply for PPI on their mortgage. And it asks them to fill in the attached application  
form and return  it within  14 days. 
Its not clear whether  this was the first time Santander had sent Mr and Mrs L a PPI 
application form. But my view remains that its more likely than not that the PPI was set 
up because Mr and Mrs L did, ultimately,  complete and return an application  form for the 
PPI.
As I said in my provisional  decision,  I dont think its unreasonable that Santander hasnt 
been able to provide  a copy of the Mr and Mrs Ls application for the PPI, in view of the 
time thats passed.  I accept  that its managed to provide copies of some of the other 
paperwork that they filled in at the time. It may be that Santander sent the completed  PPI 
form to the insurer. But whether  or not thats the explanation for its absence, the fact that 
Santander no longer  has a copy of an application  form isnt enough to make me think, on 
balance, that its likely  that no such form was completed by Mr and Mrs L.
PPI was an optional  product designed  to enable the borrower to continue  to make their 
mortgage repayments in the event of unexpected accident, sickness or unemployment. 
I cant reasonably  conclude from the fact that it wasnt compulsory, or that Santander  
may not have tried to persuade  Mr and Mrs L to continue with the policy, that it didnt 
provide valuable  cover.
As I commented  in my provisional decision,  the cost of the PPI was shown on the 
mortgage illustration. I accept  that the figure  shown  on the illustration  may not have been 
the exact figure Mr and Mrs L ended up paying. But it would have given them some idea 
of the likely cost of the cover. I acknowledge that they say that when they add up the 
premiums they paid over the term, and compare it with the amount theyd potentially 
have received  if theyd made a successful claim, they consider it bad value. But Mr and 
Mrs L could have made repeated claims on the policy if theyd had more than one period 
off work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
So Im not persuaded, on balance,  that Mr and Mrs L would have considered the policy  
to be bad value at the time. And since they were  paying for it monthly,  they could have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost if they decided  they no longer wanted the 
cover. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs L have explained that they only realised they had PPI on 
their mortgage when  they received a letter from the insurer  about  a change  of trading 
name in 2005. But that was around a decade after theyd  taken the policy out. And even 
if the letter from the insurer  in 2005 came as a surprise  to them, Im not convinced  that 
this means that the PPI had set up without their consent all those years earlier.
Ref: DRN14029016My role is to reach a decision on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint. I can understand that its frustrating for Mr and Mrs L that Ive had to reach 
my decision without having seen a copy of any PPI application. But as Ive explained, 
where evidence is incomplete,  I have  to decide what  I think  is most likely to have  
happened. Ive set out my reasons for my decision in some  detail. And my decision 
remains that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
As I explained in my provisional decision,  although  I dont find that the policy was mis-sold, 
Santander needs to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because its unfair 
that it didnt tell Mr and Mrs L about the high level of commission and profit  share it got when 
the policy was sold. Santander basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and as I said in my provisional 
decision, I think that offer was fair in this case. I note that Santander  has told us that this was 
paid to Mr and Mrs L in January  2019.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold. So Santander UK Plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the premium. I understand it had already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1402901