K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc has treated her in pursuing a 
debt of around £472,000.
background
Mrs P held a joint mortgage with her ex-husband, taken out some time ago, which  fell behind  
in payments. 
NatWest took legal action to recover  costs  and in February 2010, a court  awarded  an order  
of possession. This gave  possession  of the property  to NatWest to recover  around £566,000 
for the debt and associated interest - to the date of the judgement.  
Also in February 2010, a court issued a Judgement for Claimant  (in default)  which was 
reached against Mrs P and her ex-husband. This was in relation  to a personal loan and 
current account and ordered Mrs P and her ex-husband to pay NatWest around £58,000 for 
the debt  and associated  interest to the date of the judgement. 
Mrs P has brought this complaint  now because she received a letter in 2018 asking her to 
repay around £472,000. 
She complains, in summary, that Natwest:
told her that her half the debt would be written off
hasnt been  sympathetic  to her situation or fully considered her circumstances
is chasing her for this debt after years of not being in touch 
kept her out of the loop on important  information  that could financially impact her 
To resolve  the matter, Mrs P would  like NatWest  to write off half of the debt and correct  her 
financial history. 
NatWest didnt uphold  her complaint, so Mrs P brought  it to this service.  Our investigator 
didnt think it should be upheld so she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im very sorry to learn of the 
circumstances that Mrs P has described and, having  read through the file and noted  what  
Mrs P has told us, Im conscious  of how difficult things  have  been  for her. I can understand 
why the issues  shes complaining about are so important.  
This service does not have the power  to overturn  a court judgement   and Im afraid in this 
case, a court  has said that Mrs P is jointly  liable for the debt in relation to the mortgage, 
personal loan and account.  I cant  change  or overturn this.
Ive noted Mrs Ps comments that shes not in a position to take legal representation but Im 
afraid as a court has said she is jointly liable for the debt, she would need to apply to the 
courts to have this changed. 
I understand that this will be very disappointing news for Mrs P. Whilst I cant  do anything  to 
change this court judgement, Mrs P has raised some additional points that I think are 
important to address.  
Ref: DRN17781772Mrs P has said she was told by a member of staff that her part of this debt would be written 
off if she supported NatWest in its court proceedings. In its final response letter,  NatWest  
acknowledged that Mrs P might have been  told this by a member of staff, but it was unable  
to find any record of a call or a discussion between 2010 and 2014 where this was said.  Ive 
thought carefully  about what Mrs P has said here, and reviewed  the available  information 
including the court documentation, contact notes, as well as other  information  provided by 
both NatWest and Mrs P. Where there  is limited evidence, Im required to use my judgement 
to weigh the evidence and arguments  to reach my conclusion. Im afraid  I havent  seen 
anything to confirm  she was told this, but even if I had its unlikely I would be able to reach a 
different outcome, for the reason Ive set out above.
Ive considered what Mrs P has said about  the way shes been treated  by NatWest and have 
reviewed the additional  information  shes provided.  I can appreciate that she feels let down 
here and how difficult  and upsetting it must  have  been to receive the news  that the debt is 
owed after all his time. But where  a debt is owed, NatWest has a right to chase it and Im 
afraid Im unable to direct it to set the debt aside. 
In the same  way, Im afraid  that I cant direct NatWest to share  information  that relates to 
another party. I know this will likely  be disappointing  given  that Mrs P has also said that her 
ex-husband made claims against NatWest in relation to business losses  and, as she is party  
to the mortgage,  this should be shared with her. But these seem to have been separate  
claims made  by him.
Mrs P has also raised questions about a piece of land adjacent to the property. From the 
documentation NatWest  and Mrs P have provided,  this doesnt appear to have been sold 
along with the property.  This might be something  she could approach court  records to find 
out more information about.
Im terribly sorry to learn of everything  that Mrs P has been through  and I know  that this will 
be very disappointing for her, but for the reasons given, I dont consider that NatWest has 
acted unfairly in the circumstances.  However,  I do expect NatWest to act sympathetically 
and reasonably in its attempts  to recover this debt, giving careful consideration  to Mrs Ps 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1778177