K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BG) didnt inspect his boiler properly 
under his HomeCare policy and didnt  identify a leak that caused corrosion. This led to him 
having to replace his boiler.
background
Mr P had his boiler serviced by BG every year since 2015. It had an annual service  on 
22 August 2018.  On 26 September 2018,  a BG engineer visited Mr P to attend to a fault with 
the boiler. He discovered a leak on the heat exchanger. A further appointment was arranged 
for 28 September 2018. The engineer attending  then diagnosed that the leak had caused  
the burner to corrode and it was declared  unsafe  and beyond repair.  He advised that signs 
of the corrosion shouldve been  discovered by the engineer at the annual service visit on 
22 August. BG phoned Mr P on 4 October 2018 and agreed that the corrosion in the boiler  
shouldve been  discovered when the engineer completed the annual  service in August.
Mr P doesnt  think the service hes received  from BG, for which  hes paid £148 a year, was 
good enough. Hes had to buy a new boiler  which cost him £2,700,  and he wants  this cost to 
be reimbursed. He maintains that if BG had identified the leak earlier, it couldve been 
repaired and it wouldnt have corroded the burner which  was now an obsolete part.  So  he 
wouldnt have had to pay for a new boiler.
He argues that theres no way the extent of the corrosion found  could have  built up in the 
short time between  the August service visit and the visit in September  such  as to render the 
boiler unsafe to use, or for spare parts to become unavailable. He says that the last time a 
BG engineer removed  the combustion  chamber to visually inspect the heat exchanger or 
burner was at the 2015  annual service visit. He therefore considers that the cost of a new 
boiler should not be at his expense.
BG says that the corrosion was more  than likely to have occurred over a period longer than 
that between the August annual service  visit and when it was discovered on 28 September.  
It says that Mr P wouldve been in the same  position had the corrosion  been  noted in August 
in that the boiler wouldve needed  to have  been replaced then. 
BG has accepted that it hadnt  provided  Mr P with a good enough service and that the 
corrosion shouldve been picked up at the annual service visit on 22 August. Its offered Mr P 
£400 as compensation for the inconvenience caused by the poor level of service. Mr P has 
rejected this, and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigators view was that it was more likely than not the damage wouldve been 
present, and the boiler beyond economical repair, in August, and that the boiler wouldve 
needed to be replaced then. She considered that BGs offer of £400 was fair given the 
circumstances.
Mr P doesnt  agree  with our investigators view, and has asked that his complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman, so its been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Ps complaint 
and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN16109642I think its reasonable to assume that the corrosion in Mr Ps boiler, first noticed in 
September 2018, was present just over a month  earlier, on 22 August,  when  the annual  
service visit took place. Given the short  period of time between  these visits, I also think its 
reasonable to assume that the boiler wasnt  significantly less unserviceable than it was in 
September. So if the August service  visit had identified the corrosion, a new boiler would still 
have been necessary.
But Mr P says that his boiler hadnt been properly inspected since the 2015 service visit, and 
that if it had been,  the leak wouldve been  identified and further  damage  couldve been 
prevented. That might be the case,  but I dont have any evidence  that might suggest how 
long the heat exchanger had been  leaking.  It might only have started leaking after the 2017  
service visit, in which case the August 2018 service  visit was the first opportunity there  
wouldve been to detect it if that visit had been  conducted thoroughly. So I can really only 
say that the August 2018 wasnt  sufficiently thorough. Ive seen  the result of BGs internal 
investigation, which identified the root cause of the problem as misdiagnosis, and attributes 
80% of the blame to the engineer who undertook  the 2018 service  visit. 
So I dont  think it can be said with certainty  that BGs  failure to notice  the leak extended  
beyond the August 2018 service visit.
I also note that Mr Ps boiler  was old. BGs records show  that at the 2016 and 2017 service 
visits hed been  advised as to its age and parts availability.
My conclusion is that BGs offer of £400  towards the cost of a new boiler is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not going to uphold Mr Ps complaint, and I dont 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything more than to offer Mr P again the £400 
he initially  rejected.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019. 
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1610964