K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2001. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility for this sale. 
So in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller. Mrs T says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
 No recording of the call in which Mrs T was sold PPIs available,  which  is understandable 
given the time thats passed. But, in the absence of enough evidence to suggest otherwise, 
and bearing in mind  the store card account  had been  running for several months before the 
PPI was added,  I think it likely Mrs T was aware  she had a choice about buying  the PPI and 
that she chose  to take it before  it was added. I can understand if she doesnt remember that 
now, after all this time.
 I dont think FICL  recommended the PPI to Mrs T. So it didnt  have to check if the PPI was 
right for her. But FICL  should have given her the information she needed  to decide for herself 
if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But I think she probably chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. And I can see why as, despite being entitled to enhanced sick pay for a time 
and having savings, the PPI benefits  were  considerable and would have  paid out for a 
significant time. I also think its likely Mrs T realised there was a cost for the cover.
 Based  on what Ive seen of Mrs Ts circumstances at the time, and on what  I know  of the 
policies FICL  typically sold, it doesnt  look like shed  have been significantly affected by any 
of the exclusions  to, or limits  on, the PPI cover   so it would have been useful to her if 
something went wrong. 
Overall, I dont  find that Mrs Ts lost out because of how FICL sold her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN14025272Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject 
my decision  before 2 October 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1402527