K822xcomplaint
Miss W has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited unfairly 
refused to pay her claim for vet costs  under her pet policy.
background 
Miss W bought her policy with Red Sands in August 2017. She brought  her dog to the vet in 
September 2018 because  she was lame in her right foreleg.  This culminated in the vet 
recommending the dog underwent a CT scan. Miss W claimed for these costs.
Red Sands  refused to pay because it said the vet history show  Miss Ws dog had suffered 
lameness issues also in her right foreleg before  the policy started.
Miss W then brought her complaint to us. The investigator was off the view it should  be 
upheld. Red Sands disagreed so Miss Ws complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
This is actually a finely balanced case and it boils down  to the vet evidence of Red Sands 
independent vet and Miss Ws own vet and the results of the CT scans. 
First under the policy a pre-existing  condition is defined as: 
 any condition, symptom  or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and 
at any time prior to the commencement date; or 
 any illness, symptom  or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form during 
the first 14 days of the commencement date.
And condition is defined as:
any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any manifestation  
of an illness  having  the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the same  
disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body 
affected.
It's clear Miss Ws dog suffered from repeated lameness issues  in her forelegs, one in 
September 2018 the cause of this claim and subsequent complaint and one two years  earlier  
in 2016. However  despite two CT scans one in 2016 and one in 2018/2019,  no cause has 
been found, so no condition has been  diagnosed.  Furthermore from the vet history and from 
Mrs Ws account, her dog fully recovered  from the issue of lameness in 2016.  There was no 
ongoing issue on exercise and no further  vet treatments concerning it once  she had 
recovered. 
Miss Ws vet is of the view that the lack of anything showing up on the CT scan supersedes  
any suspicions they had of any condition. However Red Sands external vet failed to discuss  
Ref: DRN19760182the issue at all it seems with Miss Ws vet. She talks of other  diagnostic  methods but fails to 
describe any of them or indicate how they might help better to get to any root cause. She 
said the following:
There is no reason to assume these to be separate issues, based on history, 
progression and lack of change on CT (not many  differentials would do this, so to 
have two unrelated  issues  causing  the same  symptoms and neither showing up on 
CT is highly unlikely).
But the vet history shows no evidence of any progression of anything between  2016 and 
2018. It shows two separate events one where the dog recovered and one where  she did 
not. Therefore  given  the failure of this independent  vet to engage with Miss Ws vet to gain a 
better understanding of the history, Im not persuaded  by this evidence.  It lacks  appropriate 
detail of the history  of Miss Ws to substantiate  the conclusions reached  or indeed any 
discussion of what the alleged ongoing problem might be. 
So on the basis of the evidence from Miss Ws vet and her own account  Im not persuaded 
there was any pre-existing condition upon  which Red Sands can rely to refuse to pay this 
claim. Red Sands also didnt explain  in any detail why it disagreed with the thoughts of the 
investigator or proffer any further evidence in support of its stance.
Therefore I consider  it should now pay Miss Ws claims with interest.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Pay Miss Ws claims
If Miss W has already paid her vet the costs,  add interest  of 8% simple per year from 
the date Miss W paid the vet fees to the date it now reimburses  her. If income  tax is 
to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to 
Miss W for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1976018