K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that the compensation Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) paid her in relation to her 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance policy in 2007 has been mis-calculated and the 
figures dont add up.
background
Ms C took out her credit  card in 2007. She didnt take out the PPI then but took it out a little 
while later when she called to activate her credit card over the telephone.
Our adjudicator upheld  the mis-sale complaint and BoS agreed to repay to Ms C all the PPI 
premiums she had been charged, plus any interest and charges the PPI had caused her to 
incur and interest to compensate her for the time shed been out of pocket.
However, due to an error, BoS first of all paid to Ms C an amount to compensate  her for 
undisclosed commission only.
BoS later sent the remaining compensation. It carried out a new calculation which included a 
full refund of premiums  and interest  and then deducted the amount it had already paid Ms C 
for undisclosed commission.
Ms Cs representatives said that it had now received  the new offer and the breakdown  of the 
refund for the full amount of the redress but it did not appear to correspond with the 
information provided on the commission only offer. It said that it looked like at least  one of 
the offers had been calculated incorrectly. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that BoS had done anything wrong in its calculation  of the 
amount due to Ms C. Ms C disagreed and asked that the matter be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS first of all paid the commission part of the complaint to Ms C by way of compensation. 
Ms Cs representatives contacted us to say that this was incorrect as the full amount of the 
PPI was due by way of compensation  as the complaint was upheld  in full. This was agreed 
by the parties  and BoS recalculated the amount due for a full refund.
As it had already  paid some compensation to Ms C for the unfair commission, it deducted  
this from the full amount owing for the mis-sold PPI. 
On seeing these calculations, Ms Cs representatives  were concerned  that the commission  
part of the compensation  had been calculated  incorrectly.  It said that if the compensation for 
the commission was mis-calculated;  then by implication the balance that BoS had worked 
out was payable to Ms C for the full amount of the PPI couldnt be right either.
BoS has provided a breakdown of the full redress due to Ms C. A copy of this breakdown 
has been sent to Ms Cs representatives. I have carefully looked at this breakdown and I am 
satisfied that the correct  amount of redress has been calculated  for the full amount Ms C 
paid for the PPI.
Ref: DRN13004422I can see that Ms C is concerned that we havent  seen all the bank statements which show 
how much  the PPI was. The breakdown shows how much the balance was on the card both 
with PPI and if the PPI had never  been  added. It also shows that BoS knew that Ms Cs PPI 
started in June 2007 and was cancelled in July 2011.
The breakdown also makes it clear that for most  of the months  from when Ms C took out the 
PPI in June 2007 until the account  was cancelled  in July 2011; BoS has on record  the full 
data of how much was spent on Ms Cs credit card.
Only for the months of July 2007, October  and November 2007,  January, February  and April 
2008 and in July 2011, the source  of data BoS has used is from a combination of actual data 
and assumptions made. As the sale took place over 10 years ago, BoS doesnt have all the 
actual data. This is understandable and not unusual as businesses  arent  required to keep 
records indefinitely. But where the information is incomplete I would expect BoS to make  
some reasonable assumptions. I think  thats what its done here.
I accept I havent seen any actual statements but taking into account how we calculate 
redress in these types of sales  and looking at the information BoS has provided about 
Ms Cs credit  card account,  I think the actual and reconstructed (without the PPI) closing 
balance as at the refund date is calculated correctly and therefore the amount due for the full 
redress is also calculated in line with how we would expect it to be calculated.
BoS hasnt been able to provide  a breakdown of the amount  it paid to Ms C for the 
commission only part of the payment.  But I dont  think  that matters.  I say that because if as I 
have found above that the redress calculation for the full amount of the PPI is correctly 
calculated, then BoS is able to take off any sums already paid to Ms C. As I think the full 
amount is calculated correctly for the reasons I have  explained, BoS can take off what  was 
already paid to Ms C by way of compensation  for the commission  part of the complaint. As 
Ms C has already been fully compensated for the amount of the PPI she paid it follows no 
commission payment is due.
I hope this clarifies matters but my decision is that BoS has correctly calculated  the full 
amount of the redress and is entitled to deduct  any amounts already paid by way of 
compensation to Ms C for the commission only part of the complaint. So I dont require BoS 
to do anything further to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think Bank  of Scotland plc has correctly calculated  the sums  
due to Ms C by way of compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1300442