K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited gave her poor service in its 
handling of two motor insurance claims.  
background
In April 2018, Miss C was involved in a road accident, when an uninsured driver drove into 
her car, pushing it into the car in front.  Less than a fortnight later, she was involved in a 
second accident. 
Miss C complained twice  about the way Admiral had handled her claims. She said:
Admiral failed  to return calls after promising to do so.
Admiral didnt  provide  information to the authorised repairer which caused delay.
Admiral didnt  contact her to let her know that they couldnt  open the photos shed sent them.
They gave  her confusing and conflicting  information over the phone  including about  
whether they thought she was at fault or not.
The claims process took far too long and she had to chase Admiral for updates.
Her complaints took too long to resolve and Admiral didnt make her aware  of the 
full complaints process.
She was left without  a car for a lengthy period.
Admiral upheld parts of Miss Cs complaints and sent her £150 as compensation, as well as 
some flowers. They accepted that they hadnt  always returned calls as promised and had 
caused some delays by not communicating fully with the authorised  repairer. They  also 
agreed that theyd  caused some confusion with their use of the term fault claim. 
Miss C didnt think this compensation was enough  as she said shed lost hours of sleep in 
the course of the claim. So she asked  this service to investigate.  
I issued a provisional decision on 5 November 2019.  I upheld Miss Cs complaint and 
directed Admiral to pay an additional  £150 for the distress theyd caused. In summary, I said 
that Admiral had already upheld a number  of aspects of her complaint, but I did feel that 
there had been  some  additional shortcomings  in Admirals service as well. Overall, I felt that 
an additional  £150 (making total compensation of £300) was a fair amount to reflect  the 
trouble and upset  Admiral  had caused.
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss C replied to say that she didnt feel £150 
was enough to reflect the extreme  stress shed been  put under. She made the following points:
My decision mentioned  four phone calls Id listened to. But there  had been a lot more. 
It was unfair to say that that she was clearly reluctant  to take her car to the authorised 
repairer. She hadnt wanted to take it all that way because it had an oil leak from the first 
accident and she didnt want to risk breaking down. 
She had tried to contact the garage  to chase up the repair.  When  they did come  out to 
estimate, they only estimated for one set of damage  and refused to come  back again. 
Admiral had accepted  this wasnt  good  enough.
I had mentioned that I thought Admiral had acted fairly in relation to the second claim.  
They hadnt communicated  any outcome  to her. This was yet another  example of their 
poor service. 
Ref: DRN16366382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  been 
persuaded to increase the amount of compensation Im awarding.  I know  this will be 
disappointing to Miss C. So Ill explain why. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  Admiral  have upheld a number of aspects of Miss Cs 
complaint. Specifically, Admiral acknowledged that theyd failed to ring back  when  promised. 
They also accepted that theyd failed  to contact the approved repairer and caused  some 
confusion when referring to fault teams. And finally,  they upheld  Miss Cs complaint  about 
the photo evidence, as they hadnt told her the email  theyd received had been blank. So 
theres no question  that Admirals customer service had some  failings here.  
Admiral have sent me four call recordings, which I referred to in my provisional decision. But 
I accept (and Admiral accepts)  that there were more. Unfortunately,  its not always  possible 
to retrieve a complete  record of all calls and that was the case here.  I have, however, seen 
all Admirals internal notes. So Im satisfied  I have a reasonably accurate picture  of the 
history of the two claims.  
In the absence of any new evidence, I still think it took Admiral far too long to decide that the 
uninsured drivers promise  applied  to Miss Cs first claim. Miss C also had to explain  the 
circumstances several  times.  But after that, Im not convinced  the delays were  all Admirals 
fault. Im referring here to what happened in May  which was after the confusion  over which 
damage the garage was quoting for at the end of April.
Ive looked at the garages notes and Admirals notes and both suggest that they were  
expecting and waiting  to carry out repairs from mid-May to late June but Miss C didnt get in 
touch to book  the car in. This delay, which I dont think  was Admirals fault, is what  led me to 
say that Miss C appeared reluctant to use the authorised repairer. 
Eventually, this was resolved by Miss C informing Admiral that she didnt want to use their 
repairer and had arranged her own estimate.  After this, I think Admirals service was good. 
Within a day, Admiral  had accepted  the estimate and agreed a total loss payment of 
£1016.80 (net of £223 salvage).
Overall, I still think Admirals customer service was poor in relation  to several aspects of 
Miss Cs two claims. And I do think it was responsible for some  delays,  particularly early  on. 
Im satisfied that this poor claims handling  caused  Miss C both inconvenience  and distress.  
Deciding on the right level of compensation in these cases is not an exact  science. In total, 
Admiral has dealt with Miss Cs claims by paying  her the value of her car (less  salvage fee) 
and she has kept the car. They also covered the cost of an oil leak repair and have already 
paid her £150 in response to her complaints. I think a further  £150  to cover the upset theyve 
caused is sufficient  and fair. 
I note Miss Cs comments about  Admiral not communicating the outcome of her second  
claim, but I cant make a finding  on it here. Miss C will need to take this up with Admiral 
separately, if she chooses, Im afraid. 
Ref: DRN16366383my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited 
to pay Miss C £150 additional compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2020.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1636638