K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about the way Pepper (UK) Limited (trading as Engage  Credit) have 
treated Mr A whilst hes been experiencing financial difficulty  and ill health.  Theyre  unhappy 
with the way Engage Credit have administered  their mortgage during this time.
background
In 2005, Mr and Mrs A took out a repayment mortgage over a term of 25 years.  
Engage Credit have  been administering the mortgage  since  2013. Whilst Mrs A is party to 
the mortgage and to this complaint, weve been  told shes  no longer living in the mortgaged 
property, or contributing to the mortgage payments. So this complaint is led by Mr A, about 
the way Engage Credit have treated him specifically.
Unfortunately, since Engage Credit have been administering  the mortgage,  Mr A has been 
suffering from ill health and long periods out of work as a result. Because  of this, the 
mortgage has been in arrears for the majority  of this time.
Mr A has made complaints to Engage Credit about  the way theyve treated him over the 
years. Our service issued a decision in August 2019, which set out the parts of 
Mr and Mrs As complaint we could  consider,  and which parts of the complaint had been 
made out of time. We said that we could look into how Engage Credit have treated Mr A 
whilst hes suffered financial difficulty and ill health  since 22 June 2012.  However,  we 
couldnt consider  any specific  events that Mr A had complained about  before, as these had 
been addressed  in previous final response letters, and then hadnt  been brought to us within 
the time limits that apply.  So we said we couldnt  consider the following complaint points:
Engage Credit make mistakes each time Mr A enters into a payment arrangement;
Legal fees applied in March 2016;
The arrears balance  is incorrect.
Our investigator looked into the complaint we thought had been brought in time.  He  
explained that he thought  Engage Credit  could have done  more to support Mr A when he 
was struggling with his mortgage payments. As a result, he recommended  they pay him 
compensation of £750 for the distress and inconvenience their actions caused.  
Engage Credit disagreed, so the complaints been passed to me to issue  a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 4 December 2019.  This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Whilst weve said we have the power to consider this complaint from June 2012 onwards, 
Engage Credit have  only administered  the mortgage since 2013.  So Ive considered the way 
theyve treated Mr A since then.  I appreciate Mr A has raised a number of concerns about  
the way hes been treated, and I want to assure  him Ive listened carefully to everything  hes 
said. I wont comment on everything  individually,  but Ive addressed  what  I consider is at the 
heart of Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN15809752Engage Credits treatment  of Mr A whilst in financial difficulty
Id firstly  like to say that Im sorry to hear about the difficult time Mr A has had with his health  
over the years.  Hes had long periods of both physical and mental  ill health,  and I can 
appreciate the impact  this has had on his life, and his ability  to manage his finances.
When a borrower is finding it difficult to afford  their mortgage payments, Id expect the 
business to take account  of their situation,  and show forbearance in the way its managing 
the mortgage account  taking particular account  of that borrowers  individual circumstances. 
Considering the period of time Im able to look at, excluding the specific instances and 
complaint points that have been made out of time,  Im persuaded Engage  Credit  has broadly 
done this.
Ive carefully considered  the contact notes  for Mr As mortgage account.  For the most  part, 
both Mr A and Engage  Credit were communicating with each other  regularly about the 
payments Mr A was able to make, taking into account what  he could afford. Mr A updated 
Engage Credit when  he had been  unwell and was out of work, and arranged for a third party 
to do this on his behalf when he was unable to. Im satisfied Mr A did what he could to keep 
Engage Credit informed.  And, looking at the transaction history,  whilst not always  making the 
full mortgage payments,  it seems he was paying what  he could.
When Mr A contacted Engage Credit, payment arrangements were often agreed. And whilst 
these were not always kept to, for reasons  beyond  either parties control,  no further steps  
were taken to recover these arrears, during the periods Im able to consider. Engage Credit 
did sometimes send Mr A arrears letters, which I understand he found distressing. But for 
the majority of the time Mr A did not have his own phone  and so Engage Credit had no 
contact number for him. Looking at the contact history, Im satisfied Engage  Credit  only sent 
these letters when there had been periods  of no contact from Mr A, and no other way to 
reach him. These letters  often prompted  contact  from Mr A, and further arrangements were 
made once  hed updated them with his circumstances.
Ive thought about whether Engage Credit could  have offered different forbearance options 
to help Mr A, rather than individual payment arrangements  which  required frequent  contact  
and updates from both sides. But each time Mr A was having difficulties, he was unsure how 
long these would last for, and from the notes  it seems he was often hoping to be back in full 
time work soon. With the information  Engage Credit  had at the time, Im not persuaded more 
long term solutions,  such as capitalising the arrears, or switching the repayment  type,  would 
have been appropriate. As these would likely have ended up being more  expensive overall 
for Mr A.
I understand Mr A feels Engage Credit  could have done more  to help him during these 
periods of difficulty, and I can see there  were  some phone conversations  between  them  that 
didnt end constructively. But I think on the most  part, Mr As difficulties and frustrations were  
caused by the circumstances  he found himself in. And Im not persuaded, from the evidence 
Ive seen, that Engage Credit were  treating  him unfairly during this difficult time, within the 
scope of this complaint.  Mr A was struggling to meet his full mortgage repayments, through 
no fault of his own, and Engage Credit agreed  payment arrangements, which meant  the 
arrears could have  been  cleared within the term of the mortgage  taking account  of what 
Mr A could have afforded to pay. I think that overall, this was a fair approach to take.
Mr A is still unwell.  I understand  Engage  Credit  havent taken any further steps to recover  
the arrears on the mortgage whilst this complaint has been with us. Going forward, Id expect 
Ref: DRN15809753Engage Credit to continue  to act sympathetically  towards Mr As situation, and remain 
flexible with the payments hes able to make  whilst  hes undergoing treatment, and unable to 
work.
The administration of the mortgage  account  
In May 2018, Engage Credit  wrote to Mr and Mrs A. They said that following guidance  from 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA),  they were contacting them about the way theyd 
administered the mortgage. They said the contractual monthly  payments were  higher than 
they should have been, as theyd automatically  included the mortgage arrears balance  when 
calculating the monthly  payments, whilst taking steps to collect  the arrears  separately. 
They explained that moving forwards, this would not be the case,  and they credited the 
arrears balance with the amount overcharged,  which  they said was £163.86. But Mr A feels  
hes due more compensation than this, given the stress these arrears, and the way Engage 
Credit have tried to collect them, have caused him.
Engage Credit have  sent us their calculations to show  how theyve re-worked 
Mr and Mrs As mortgage account, in light of the FCAs guidance. Having carefully  
considered all the information provided by both parties, Im satisfied Engage  Credit  have  put 
Mr and Mrs As mortgage account back into the position it would have been, had they done 
things right.
I understand that the arrears on the mortgage  account caused Mr A a great deal of stress 
and worry over the years. But looking at everything  thats happened,  Im not persuaded the 
actions of Engage  Credit  caused the arrears on the mortgage. Unfortunately,  the arrears  
would have been present  whether  or not Engage Credit had been administering the 
mortgage as they should  have been. So whilst I appreciate everything Mr A has said and 
been through, Im not satisfied it would be fair for Engage Credit  to compensate Mr A any 
further than they have  done to put things right.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr A responded to my provisional decision and disagreed with what Id said.  Hes provided a 
lot of information about why hes unhappy, but in summary - he said he doesnt feel hes 
been supported  by Engage Credit  at all. Despite making several suggestions to them he 
feels hes received  appalling customer service. Hes worried hes going to be repossessed 
despite paying what he can. Hes also raised  concerns about the fees Engage Credit have 
charged whilst his mortgage has been in arrears.
Engage Credit did not respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the latest submissions by Mr A.
I understand how difficult things have been for Mr A, and I appreciate  hes made every effort 
to pay Engage Credit  what  he can each  month  towards the mortgage.  Ive listened carefully 
to everything hes said and really do empathise  with his situation.  
Ref: DRN15809754But he hasnt provided any new information  or said anything  which  changes  my original 
decision. Bearing in mind  Im limited to the events I can consider under this complaint,  Im 
still satisfied that Engage  Credit have treated Mr A fairly whilst  hes been in financial 
difficulty, by agreeing arrangements  with him to pay what he can afford, and not taking 
further steps to recover the arrears on the account.
However, I can appreciate  why Mr A is worried that this may change,  and Engage Credit 
may consider taking  other  steps  to recover the arrears.  So I want  to be clear  that whilst I 
think Engage Credit have  treated Mr A fairly  under the scope of this complaint, Id expect 
them to continue this whilst Mr A is still unwell and undergoing treatment.
Mr A has also raised concerns about the fees Engage Credit have applied  to the account. I 
understand our service  is considering that separately under a different complaint reference. 
So I havent considered that here.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1580975