K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Virgin Money  plc withdrew  the promotional interest rate on his credit 
card without telling him.
background
Mr E opened  a credit card account with Virgin  in January 2018. It had a promotional interest 
rate of 0% for the first twenty  five months.
Mr Es minimum payment  to the account for February 2018 was made  late, and Virgin 
withdrew the promotional interest  rate in line with the account terms. Mr E didnt find out 
about this until later in 2018, by which time hed been paying  interest  on his balance  at 
Virgins standard rate.
Virgin accepted  that some of its customer service couldve  been  better, and paid £25 to Mr 
E. But it wasnt willing to reinstate  the promotional interest rate, or refund any interest or 
charges.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Virgin needed  to do anything else. He was satisfied that its 
account opening information  was clear enough to make  Mr E aware that the promotional  rate 
would end if payments  were made  late. The same information was also available  on Mr Es 
monthly statements. 
The adjudicator concluded that Virgin had withdrawn the promotional rate in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions.
Mr E didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions. He referred to guidance applicable to 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (as amended), which said customers had to be given notice 
of interest rate increases,  other than in specific circumstances. Mr E didnt consider those 
circumstances applied  in his case, so he maintained  Virgin shouldve told him the 
promotional rate was being withdrawn.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has referred to guidance issued by the Department for Business Innovation  & Skills (as 
it was previously known), in connection with section 78A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(as amended). That piece of legislation says the creditor  (Virgin)  must tell the debtor (Mr E) 
about an interest change in writing unless:
78A (2)(a) the agreement provides that the creditor is to inform the debtor in writing 
periodically of the matter  mentioned in subsection  (3) in relation  to any 
variation
(b) the agreement  provides  that the rate of interest is to vary according to a 
reference rate,
Ref: DRN15916622(c) the reference rate is publicly available,
(d) information about the reference  rate is available on the premises  of the 
creditor, and
(e) the variation  of the rate of interest  results from a change  to the reference 
rate. 
Mr E says paragraphs (b) and (e) dont  apply to his agreement with Virgin. He says this is 
because the promotional rate was fixed at 0%, and couldnt be varied  in line with a reference 
rate. In addition, the change wasnt made because of a change to the reference  rate.
Ive thought about everything Mr E has said. But Im afraid I dont agree with his 
interpretation of the legislation and guidance, in relation  to his agreement  with Virgin. 
Section 78A applies to the whole credit  agreement that Mr E has with Virgin. The rates of 
interest applicable to different transactions are set out in Virgins  tariff, which  forms part of 
the agreement.
Paragraphs 7.5 and 7.7 of the agreement say:
7.5 We may offer you promotions. If we offer a promotion, we will tell you the promotional 
rate and any fees, how long the offer period lasts for and any other information 
relevant at the time.
7.7 If we do not receive  the Minimum Payment when it is due or you go over your credit 
limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement  
period. When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge  the current 
standard interest rate that applies to that transaction.
From what  Ive seen, I consider section 78A of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (as amended)
applies to the agreements underlying interest rates, as set out in the tariff. So any changes
to those rates should be applied in line with section  78A.
But Im not persuaded that section  78A applies to the promotional interest rate. Im satisfied
that the terms of any promotional  rates are governed by the terms of the credit  agreement.
So Virgin can withdraw the promotional rate without notice if the minimum payment is late, or 
the credit  limit is breached.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Virgin has done anything wrong. I think the £25 it has paid
Mr E for poor customer service is fair and reasonable, and I wont  be asking it to do anything
else.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN15916623Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1591662