K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) damaged his car 
when it attended  him under his roadside  assistance insurance policy.  He wants it to make a 
contribution towards  repairs.
background
Mr Ts car wouldnt  start and so he called LV for assistance. An engineer attended  and tried 
to start the car using  jump  leads. Mr T said there was then a loud bang followed by smoke  
from the engine.  He said the engineer then left and Mr T had to call LV again to arrange for 
his car to be recovered  to a garage. Another engineer attended, the car was recovered and 
later repaired. Mr T said LVs first engineer  had caused damage  to the engine and he 
wanted it to reimburse  him the £1,300 repair costs.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  there 
had been miscommunication about  whether Mr T needed assistance to recover his car to the 
garage after the first engineer attended. She relied  upon the repairing engineers view and 
he couldnt say what had caused the engine damage.  The car was repaired before LV could 
inspect it. So she thought there  was no evidence to show that LVs engineer had caused the 
damage. And so she didnt think LV should  pay for the repairs. 
Mr T replied that the first engineer drove  off without asking him if he wanted assistance in 
recovering to his car to his preferred  garage.  He said the engineer  hadnt  made  any 
diagnostics before trying to jump start the car. And he said two independent  engineers had 
told him the engineer should  have  done  this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ts frustration and disappointment that he feels  he hasnt received the 
service he expected and paid for. I can see that hes adamant that the engineers  actions led 
to the damage  to his cars engine. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
repairs.
Mr T said hed charged the battery  and tried to start the car for two days.  But the bang and 
smoke only occurred after the attending engineer tried to jump start the car. Mr T said two 
independent engineers had told him that the first attending engineer should have carried out 
a diagnostic first. This may be so, but I dont think this means that the engineers actions 
then caused the damage  to the engine. 
Mr T called LV because  his car already had a fault. But I cant see any evidence to show 
what the fault was. So Ive looked  to see if theres evidence  LV should have considered to 
show that the attending engineer caused  further  damage.
Ref: DRN18317002Ive listened to the call LV made to the repairing  garage about its repairs.  The repairing 
engineer couldnt say what had caused the damage to the cars engine.  The car was 
repaired and the parts disposed of before LV had a chance to inspect  it. Theres no other 
expert independent evidence to show how the damage was caused. So I cant say that it 
was unreasonable for LV to decide that there was no evidence to show that its engineer  had 
caused the damage. And I therefore  cant say it was unreasonable for it to decline to 
reimburse Mr T for the repair costs. 
Mr T said the first engineer had left after five minutes leaving him to make his own recovery 
arrangements. But the engineer said this was what  was agreed at the time. I can see that 
this is stated on the job sheet Mr T signed  at the time. I dont think  the fact that the engineer  
left quickly is relevant as hed decided recovery to a garage was needed. 
Mr T later told us that hed declined  having the car recovered to a nearby garage,  preferring 
to use his own. So this may have led to some confusion about  what was required. I wasnt  
there at the time and without  further  evidence I cant say that LV did anything wrong here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1831700