K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the arrears  management  fees that Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax charged saying  that it caused  a lot of stress  in his personal life. Mr M would like 
compensation of £1,500.
background
Mr M has a mortgage with Halifax which has been in arrears. Because  of the arrears Halifax 
charged arrears management  fees. Halifax in 2017 reviewed Mr Ms account and refunded  
fees it charged. It set these out in a letter to Mr M dated 15 November 2017 saying that 
some arrears management fees may have been  inappropriately charged  to the accounts of 
customers such as Mr M who had fallen behind in their mortgage  payments. In this case 
Halifax returned £1,352.87 to Mr Ms account. As Mr M hadnt yet paid all these fees, Halifax  
reduced the arrears  by the value of the fees that he did pay which was £315.33 together  with 
compensatory interest
Mr M told Halifax that these arrears fees caused  him great  distress  in his personal  life and 
affected his marriage.  Halifax replied  to say that the fees were properly charged in 
accordance with its terms and conditions applicable  at the time but that on review  it decided 
that it would  be inappropriate to charge these fees. Halifax felt that Mr M received a poor 
service and offered  £75 on top of a previous payment of £117.66.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that 
Halifax had fairly reviewed Mr Ms account and put him in the same financial position  he 
would have been had the fees not been  charged. Mr M didnt agree and I reviewed the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M went into arrears  and because of that Halifax added to Mr Ms account arrears  
management fees. These fees were in line with Halifaxs charges under its terms and 
conditions. Halifax looked at this account as it has done with several  other accounts and 
decided that these charges were inappropriate and should be refunded. Halifax says that in 
refunding the fees its intention was to put Mr M back in the financial situation he would have 
been had the charges not been raised.  So, I consider that Halifax has fairly dealt with any 
financial loss that Mr M may have  suffered as a result of those charges.
In addition Mr M would  like compensation  for the distress he has suffered including  the 
break-up of his marriage. I can see that Mr M has  had a very stressful  time over these past 
years including periods  of unemployment and being a full-time carer for his disabled partner, 
This would have caused financial  difficulties  causing  him to go into arrears on the mortgage. 
So, there were obviously  other  very stressful events going on in his life in any event. It would  
seem that the arrears  management fees were a symptom of the financial difficulties that Mr 
M was in rather than the cause of it. So, I cant agree with him that they were source of the 
stresses in his life. 
Ref: DRN11997062Although Halifax  added these charges to the arrears, it did so in accordance with the terms 
of the mortgage  that Mr M agreed to. So it didnt charge these fees in breach of any 
agreement with Mr M. I have looked  at all that Mr M has told me but I cant  agree  with him 
that he should be due any further compensation from Halifax.  For the above  reasons I cant 
fairly uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1199706