K821x#15Complaint
Ms B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 6 September 2019.  A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
Ms Bs complaint should be upheld.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
20 September 2019. But neither side sent me anything new to consider.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither FICL  nor Ms B sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that it should be upheld.
Putting things  right
FICL needs to put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would  have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
Ref: DRN12297162D.FICL should tell Ms B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Bs 
complaint in this case. Financial Insurance Company Limited should put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12297163COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Ms B says she was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. Financial Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep  things simple, 
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
This complaint is about  a store card PPI policy that was added to Ms Bs account  in 1995 when  she 
applied for the card in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im planning  to uphold  Ms Bs complaint, because  I dont think  FICL 
made it sufficiently clear to her that she had a choice about buying the PPI.
Ms B applied for her card in a store.  She says she only took out the card for a discount on the goods 
she was buying. She says the store assistant filled in the application  for her and Ms B signed where 
she was asked to. Ms B says that PPI was never mentioned, she never asked for it or accepted it, 
and wouldve declined it if given the choice.
Im conscious  that memories  can and do fade over time, that I wasnt present  at the sale, and that 
I dont have a copy of a sales script or process to show how the PPI was supposed to have been 
presented. But I do have a copy of the store card application that Ms B signed.
The application has been marked in a number  of places  with what looks like crosses. The sections 
that were marked were filled in with Ms Bs details. Taking  into account all the writing on the form it 
looks like the cross marks were made  to show Ms B where to fill things in. The sections that were not 
marked were left blank, with just one exception  the section for PPI.
There was a tick in the box for PPI to indicate it had been chosen. But next to that was written 
someones name, seemingly as some kind of endorsement. Ms Bs signature endorsed  what was on 
the form when she signed it. So only a later amendment would need another endorsement. So it 
seems likely that the tick was made after Ms B signed the form. If Ms B had made  the tick herself  or 
been present when it was made, I think she wouldve been asked to endorse it herself. But the name 
by the tick isnt hers.  It looks  like its the name of the person who sold the card.
So although the form did offer Ms B the choice  to take or leave PPI, I dont think  FICL drew  her 
attention to that section or to the choice. It may be that whoever ticked  the box for PPI thought this 
reflected what  Ms B wanted.  But from what I have, I cant be reasonably satisfied that Ms B was 
directed towards the choice  about whether to take PPI, nor that she actually chose to take it out.
So taking everything into account,  on balance  I dont think FICL made it sufficiently clear to Ms B that 
she had a fair choice about taking the PPI. So it follows  that I currently  think we should uphold her 
complaint in the particular circumstances  of this case, and that I propose FICL  puts things right.
Ref: DRN12297164Putting things right
FICL should put Ms B in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
E. FICL should find out how much  Ms B would have owed when she closed her store  card account 
if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund the difference between what Ms B owed when she closed  her account  
and what she would have  owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
F. FICL should add simple  interest on the difference between what  Ms B would  have owed when 
she closed her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% simple  a year.
G. If  when  FICL works out what Ms B would have owed each month without  PPI  she paid more 
than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra Ms B paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms B wouldve owed FICL  something 
on her store  card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a year.
H. FICL should tell Ms B what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms B a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Ms Bs complaint, and to direct FICL to put things right 
in the way I set out above.
Please could  FICL and Ms B send me any more information or comments  to look at by 20 September  
2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1229716