K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a vehicle he obtained through  a Hire Purchase Agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo) isnt fit for purpose.  He 
would like to reject the vehicle.
background
Mr C says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Motonovo in September 2017. He 
says he immediately had problem with the vehicle going into limp mode. He says a known 
manufacturing defect  was identified with issues identified with the injector cylinders.
With regard to this problem Mr C says he raised  a complaint with this service. His complaint 
was upheld in January  2018. At this point he says he opted  for a repair and compensation as 
he couldnt afford a new finance agreement.
Mr C says he has experienced further  problems with the vehicle after the injectors were 
changed. There is an inconsistent throttle response which he feels is potentially dangerous, 
the engine doesnt run smoothly and there are problems accelerating.
Mr C feels he has evidenced these issues providing  an independent report. He doesnt feel 
the issues were part of the problems for which he accepted £500 compensation with his first 
complaint.  He doesnt feel the vehicle is safe and would like to reject it.
Motonovo considered the independent report that Mr C provided.  It felt it referred back to the 
problems Mr C first had with the vehicle.  It had offered at that point to allow Mr C to reject 
the vehicle but instead Mr C opted  to retain it and accept £500  in full and final settlement. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint. She found the independent  report  identified an 
issue with the fuel supply or an electrical  fault. And recommended a thorough  in depth 
investigation as the manufacturer acknowledged  there was a fault but was unable to identify 
the problem. 
She didnt  think it was reasonable for Mr C to have had so many problems with a brand new 
vehicle.
She recommended that FirstRand Limited  trading as Motonovo  Finance should:-
-Cancel the Hire Purchas Agreement, and collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr C
-Refund Mr Cs deposit in full adding 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
-Remove any adverse  data from Mr Cs credit  file
-Pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience.
Mr C accepted this but Motonovo didnt.
Motonovo said in Mr Cs first complaint it offered to take back the  vehicle but Mr C chose  
not to do this and accepted £500 in full and final settlement of his complaint. As Mr C had 
Ref: DRN12713022had the vehicle for two years and driven in excess of 20,000 miles it felt the vehicle was fit 
for purpose  at the point of sale.  
It added that the vehicle  would have depreciated significantly  in value by now so it wasnt 
reasonable to expect  Motonovo  to take it back.
Finally it didnt feel there was any evidence of a new fault. So on that basis  Mr C had already 
accepted compensation over rejection,
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  at all the information  available to me from Mr Cs first complaint as it seems to 
me the main issue here is whether the problems  Mr C is experiencing now were  covered by 
that complaint  or not.
I cant see that any formal  investigation  was carried out when Mr C made  that first complaint. 
The issues  noted  in that final response letter covered the vehicle  loosing  power, an issue 
with the fuel delivery  system and a concern over the injectors.
From what  I understand from that complaint the injector issue  was a known issue   as a 
result two injectors were  replaced.  There was also a software  update carried out. No other  
faults were found.
Ive seen that later on a security update was applied which  involved  changing  the locks.
I appreciate Mr C accepted an offer of compensation in full and final settlement in that 
complaint. But from reading the correspondence I think it was clear this related  to the issues  
raised in that complaint. And didnt prevent Mr C raising other, different issues.
Mr C has given us some evidence to show that the manufacturer was unable  to replicate or 
reproduce the ongoing problems he had. But Mr C has also given us an independent report. 
During this investigation the faults  were  replicated on a test drive. So from that I am 
persuaded that there are issues  with Mr Cs vehicle.
Its frustrating  that the independent report isnt a technical report  but an opinion  based on the 
background history  of the vehicle, Mr Cs information (supported  by documentary evidence  
and/ or confirmation  that this evidence has been  seen), evidence  from the test drive and the 
opinion of the qualified engineer as to what the problems might  be.
Notwithstanding that I found the report detailed and comprehensive. It considered if Mr C 
might have contributed/caused any problems for example by using the wrong  fuel or not 
having the vehicle serviced.
It also addressed why, in the engineers view, he thought the fault might  not have been 
identified by the manufacturer. He concluded, not unreasonably in my view,   that  if there is 
an intermittent fault  that wasnt  present at the time of the test then often diagnostic 
equipment will not pick up the fault.
Ref: DRN12713023I accept Motonovos comments that the report does refer to the previous problems covered 
by Mr Cs first complaint. But in my view that is mainly as the report  covers  the full history of 
the vehicle not just the current problems. 
It does identify the current main problem  Mr C has is with the accelerator  not working as it 
should. And I cant see that this was covered by the first complaint.  There  seem to be two 
problems with the accelerator.  Firstly when the engine revolutions are under 2,000 revs per 
minute (rpm) the accelerator  runs as if the vehicle  is running out of fuel. In this situation  the 
vehicle wouldnt respond or move  forward as would b expected.  Secondly  the engine  would 
quickly accelerate forward.
The report  concludes that there is a significant  problem which,  in the engineers view, was 
present at the point of sale. The problem involved a fuel supply or more  likely an electrical 
defect coupled with the management system  of the vehicle. Given there had been  a number 
of unsuccessful attempts  to identify the problem the engineer thought the vehicle would need 
an in depth investigation to do so.
I have considered these  comments very carefully as a potential problem with the fuel 
delivery system is an issue that was raised in Mr Cs first complaint. But I cant see that was 
ever addressed.
However the independent report also states that the problem is more  likely an electrical one. 
That combined with the issue with the accelerator, of which I can see no evidence  of in Mr 
Cs first complaint,   inclines  me to believe this is a new issue.
I am also conscious that the independent report states this fault I, at least annoying, but 
potentially very dangerous. If for example  Mr C pulled  out into a main road and the 
accelerator didnt  respond,  he could find himself stranded  in the middle of a main road.
From what  I understand Mr C has learnt to drive the car in a certain way to still be able to 
use it. But Mr C bought  a new car. And I dont think its reasonable to expect him to have to 
drive it that way within just two years of having  it.
I am also mindful that Mr C delayed  accepting Motonovos offer to allow  him to reject his 
vehicle in his first complaint. The delay led to Mr C loosing  the opportunity to reject  the 
vehicle. From the information  we have it seems to me that the delay was down  to Mr C 
experiencing ongoing problems despite the first repair which M C was trying to get to the 
bottom of.
So on the basis that Mr C bought a new car and could reasonably have expected  it to be 
fault free  for some time, and  that  the independent report identifies  a potentially  serious  
issue that I dont  believe  was covered in Mr Cs first complaint, I think its reasonable to allow 
Mr C to reject his vehicle.
I agree  with our adjudicator that some compensation for distress and inconvenience is 
reasonable in this case. I think the £250 she suggested is fair. It seems  to me that Mr C has 
had ongoing  issues  since he got his vehicle with several attempts to identify the issue 
culminating in Mr C getting an independent  report.  I dont doubt  that this has put Mr C to 
some inconvenience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN12713024In full and final settlement  FirstRand  Bank  Limited trading as Motonovo  Finance should:-
-Cancel Mr Cs Hire Purchas Agreement, and collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr C
-Refund Mr Cs deposit in full adding 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
-Remove any adverse  data from Mr Cs credit  file
-Pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1271302