K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold her life insurance  and critical illness  cover 
that was expensive and didnt fully cover her mortgage.
background
Mrs C took out a mortgage  with Santander (then Abbey National) in 2003. She also started a 
critical illness policy for £22,560 over 14 years  which included life cover  for no additional 
charge. 
In 2018, Mrs C complained that it had been  mis-sold  to her. She said the policy  was 
expensive; would end when she reached the age of 70; and didnt give enough cover for all 
her mortgage borrowing.  She said she was persuaded that she had to have it.
Santander said that having  such cover  had never been condition of getting a mortgage  with 
it. It said the policy had been arranged on a non-advice basis, so Mrs C had been given 
information with which she could make an informed choice about whether  it was suitable for 
her. It said the amount  of cover had been  agreed based on Mrs Cs budget, and its advisor 
had discussed  that this would not fully cover  the mortgage and was a year short  in term. 
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and didnt think  it should  be upheld.  She 
said Mrs C had a need to protect  her mortgage  in the event of being diagnosed with a critical 
illness, but budget restraints limited the amount of cover.  She said it was common for this 
type of policy to only be able to run until the policyholder  reaches  the age of 70, and this was 
why Mrs Cs policy term was one year short of her mortgage term.
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said she had applied  for a mortgage 
needing to keep her costs  as low as possible and didnt want the insurance. But she felt she 
was placed under considerable  pressure to take it out as this was what  the advisor was 
telling her was the right thing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive taken into account all that Mrs C has told us about her situation,  and Im sorry to hear of 
the difficult time shes experienced. I also appreciate that her complaint about other 
insurance she took out at the same  time as this life and critical illness  policy has been  
upheld. 
I can see that Mrs C feels  she was reliant  on what the advisor told her when agreeing  to take 
out this policy.  And this is why she accepted it even though she was looking to keep her 
mortgage related  costs  to a minimum. Santander has said the policy  was arranged on a non-
advice basis, so Mrs C was given  information about the policy  and it was for her to decide 
whether it met her needs and she wanted  to go ahead with it.
Ref: DRN11523112The documentation  from the time Mrs C met with the advisor  to talk about the policy 
indicates that her mortgage application  had already been made  and was being processed.  
Its noted that Mrs C had come in today to sort out some life and critical illness  cover  on the
loan and payment  protection.  We have  agreed  upon  £30 per month for critical illness  cover  
which will provide £22,560 of cover for next 14 years.
This suggests to me that there was a discussion about Mrs Cs budget for the policy. And the 
monthly premium she could afford gave the amount of cover  it would  provide.  Although  this 
was less than her mortgage borrowing,  these  notes indicate that she was made aware  of 
this. The policy gave  her cover in the event she was diagnosed with a specified critical 
illness while  it was in place, which would mean  it would provide a lump  sum that could be 
used to pay towards her remaining mortgage. It included  life cover without any additional  
cost.
Mrs C already had a decreasing term assurance policy  which gave her life cover. Its not 
clear when that policy started, but the amount of cover was gradually reducing in line with 
her repayment mortgage. And its sum assured  also wasnt enough to cover her new 
mortgage amount.
The policy she started gave her level cover, so it would pay out the sum assured whenever a 
valid claim was made during its term, and the amount  of that cover  stayed the same. 
Although Mrs C was applying for a repayment mortgage, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
her critical illness policy to provide  level cover  when it was for less than the mortgage at the 
start. And I can also see that Mrs C had a whole-of-life policy,  which  the notes indicate she 
intended on keeping,  which  gave her life cover  of £19,000.
The policy term gave her cover until she reached the age of 70, and this meant it would  end 
one year before her mortgage. However,  the notes  indicate that this was discussed with 
Mrs C. They  say that she was Not concerned over shorter term as will try to pay some of 
this mortgage  off sooner, plus in the final year balance outstanding on this repayment 
mortgage will be more than manageable.
Mrs C kept her policy for its full term until it ended  in 2017.
Taking everything into account  and thinking about her particular circumstances at the time,  I 
dont think Mrs Cs critical illness policy with life cover was mis-sold to her.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1152311