K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited have declined their claim for 
damage to their footpath, driveway and brickwork  under  their home  insurance  policy. Ill refer 
to Mr S throughout  the decision as hes been dealing with the complaint.
background
Mr S noticed  there was a problem with his water supply. The water company confirmed there 
was a leak and the firm appointed to deal with the leak couldnt find it. So instead the pipe 
was isolated, and a new pipe was fitted  to replace the supply through another route. Mr S 
made a claim as he thought the leak couldve been the cause of damage to the footpath, 
driveway and brickwork  at his home. Aviva sent a surveyor to inspect  the damage and 
validate the claim. An inspection pit was dug to check the ground  saturation  levels.
Aviva accepted that the leak had occurred  but didnt accept the claim. It said the pathway  
and drive had been  uneven for a long period  and there was no cover for gradual  damage or 
general wear and tear. It said the brickwork  was discoloured  but this was caused by ground  
salts and was a common issue. Aviva said none of the damage was caused by an insured 
event covered by the policy. Mr S brought remained unhappy and brought  his complaint to
this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said photos from Mr S showed the neighbours 
driveway was in no better condition than Mr Ss driveway several years  ago but several 
years later and after the leak Mr Ss drive was now in much worse condition  than the 
neighbours drive. Our investigator  said this also applied  to the pathway and brickwork due to 
the damp conditions  following the leak. She felt the leak had contributed to the acceleration 
of deterioration  and said Aviva should contribute 65% towards the costs of repairs  to put 
Mr S back  in the position he was prior to the loss.
Aviva didnt accept this and asked for this complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a
final decision.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said:
Mr S has said all along we believe water  could be surfacing from under our bungalow.  
Following such a leak I can understand  Mr Ss concern.
The experts (H) appointed by Aviva  said there was evidence of some historic  patch repairs  
to the areas Mr S was claiming  for. H said Mr S had confirmed this work  had been  carried 
out by him three years before. It also checked with him about when the fence  had been  
painted and they claim he said that had been done around eight years  before. H said the line 
of uneven pathway ran consistently in line along the painted fence. H said this showed that 
the damage had been caused  many  years prior to the water  leak and there was no sign of 
recent movement. H also said there  was no link to the recent water leak and referred to wear 
and tear.
Regarding the inspection  pit it said the ground  had been dry when it was excavated and was 
also dry at a later inspection. It said the brickwork discolouration  was as a result of ground  
salts which  was common. Neighbourhood  properties and pathways were also looked at and 
Ref: DRN12065172many were  in a similar condition with uneven areas and patch repairs. Aviva  maintained  that 
there had been  no insured event.
Ive also seen details  from the site photos that said the excavation showed  the ground  below 
the patio and path wasnt washed away. I think this is particularly  crucial  as this doesnt 
suggest theres any problem with the ground  underneath the areas Mr S is claiming for. 
Theres also no evidence to challenge what Aviva said about  the brickwork.  All of the details 
presented suggests  that Avivas decision was reasonable. The evidence indicates  that the 
problem with the areas Mr S is claiming  for have been damaged  over a period of time that 
started far earlier than the water leak.
responses to my provisional  decision
Aviva didnt respond.
The main  points of Mr Ss response were:
The water  had taken  time to disperse;
The side path was kept locked for security purposes and only opened to read the meters;
He thought the path was uneven due to water escaping not wear and tear;
The leaking pipe was re-routed;
The inspection pit dried out due to the weather;
The surveyor was in a hurry to get his computer fixed;
The driveway areas are constantly  moving;
There are many  humps and hollows  on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the points Mr S is making but Im afraid  theres just no evidence or expert  
opinion provided  that shows a valid claim has been  declined. Based on the evidence  the 
decision by Aviva to decline the claim does seem reasonable. I see no reason to change  my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1206517