K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the increases  in premiums on her home insurance with Legal & 
General Insurance Limited (L&G).  Mrs Bs complaint  has been brought by her daughter, 
Mrs W.   
background 
Mrs Bs home insurance policy started in September 2008. The premium was £520.08 for 
that year. Over the years the premium  increased and in 2018 was £680.95.  
Mrs W says she looked  into her mothers  home insurance in 2018 and thought she was 
being charged far too much   particularly as she herself was paying much  less for her own 
insurance. Mrs W says at this point she searched for cheaper  cover for her mother and 
found L&G would offer her a new policy for £252.87 for slightly  better  cover. She says shes 
unhappy that L&G continued to charge  Mrs B more than twice  what  they would offer if she 
applied today.
Mrs W says her mother was a loyal customer and has been overcharged. Mrs W says Mrs B 
is elderly and from a generation where  people trust the advice and information provided by a 
professional reputable organisation such as L&G. She says her mother doesnt use the 
internet or price comparison websites. She says she had no reason to doubt what  she was 
paying was the best value home insurance as stated in the renewal letters  she was sent 
each year. Mrs B thinks she should  be reimbursed  for the extra  she paid over the years.
The business didnt  think it had acted unfairly   and our investigator  agreed. Mrs B 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to
Mrs B, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether L&G has treated Mrs B fairly 
throughout the period  she held her insurance policy. 
When Mrs Bs policy started in 2008, presumably she was happy with the price  at that time 
as she decided to go ahead and take out the policy. If she wasnt happy with what  L&G was 
offering, she could have  gone elsewhere to get a different  policy.
Mrs B is unhappy with the cost of her policy  and she doesnt appear to have  engaged  with 
L&G about her premiums until Mrs W did so on her behalf in 2018. She says she was being 
overcharged and only realised when her daughter looked into her insurance premiums  in 
2018. 
If L&G increased the price  just because Mrs B carried on with her policy each year without 
engaging with the renewal  price, that wouldnt  be fair. Looking at all the facts, Im not 
Ref: DRN16307822persuaded it increased the price just because she didnt engage at renewal  and cant say it 
acted unfairly.
L&G isnt obliged to explain to its customers how its priced its policies. But from what  Ive 
seen, its likely the gradual increases in the premiums  each  year were due to increases in 
insurance premium tax and rate changes. Its also possible that when Mrs B took out the 
policy it included an introductory discount. Ive seen no evidence  that Mrs B was singled 
out in any way, or treated  differently to its other  customers with similar circumstances. 
L&G does need  to send renewal offers a reasonable amount of time before the policy 
renews so they have  the chance  to shop around or discuss the price with L&G if theyre 
unhappy. Its for consumers to decide  whether they want to pay for the cover theyre offered 
at the price theyre  offered.
Mrs W is unhappy that Mrs Bs renewal notices described her policy  as the best value home 
insurance. She says her mother was reassured  by that and thats  why she carried  on with 
the policy. And without  this wording she would have shopped around and got a better deal 
after the first year.  The renewals do give reassurance  that the price is competitive, but on 
balance and taking  into account everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mrs B would have 
done anything  differently  if this line hadnt been included.  
Mrs B accepted the offer of insurance  from the third party who sold her the policy,  even  
though she accepts the amount she agreed  to pay was high. She didnt shop around at this 
point to find a cheaper  policy  presumably  because  it was easier to accept the policy  she 
was offered. So its unlikely that without this particular reassurance in the renewal notices 
she would  have decided  to shop around and find a cheaper policy. I think its more  likely she 
would have carried on with the policy, as she has done.
Mrs W points  to the alternative lower premium  quotes she was able to get for Mrs B in 2018. 
She says this shows Mrs B has been  overcharged.  Ive thought  about  this. But just because 
a policy  premium is higher  compared  to what may be available  elsewhere in the market 
doesnt, in my view,  mean that something  has gone  wrong. The insurance market is very 
competitive. And different  insurers  may well take varied views on risk and the price  that they 
need to charge to cover  that. New policies  also generally include new customer  discounts, 
and these invariably  need to be recouped over a period of time to make the policy 
commercially viable.  So, the new policy Mrs B obtained, while cheaper at the outset, is also 
likely to increase in price.
Mrs W thinks Mrs Bs policy and new policy she found are identical. But insurers  often use 
different pricing  and risk models over time. So a policy that was taken out in 2008  wont  be 
priced the same way as a policy taken out in 2018   they cannot be compared like for like, 
even though they are with the same insurer.
Mrs W has also pointed  to how much less she herself  was paying for home insurance 
compared to Mrs B. But these policies covered different properties so cant be compared like 
for like. Along  with a difference in premium, there also wouldve been differences  in cover 
and different excesses  here. So this doesnt  make me think  L&G acted unfairly. 
I note our investigator mentioned in correspondence  that L&G couldnt promote other 
policies to Mrs B because of the agreement it had with the business who sold the policy. 
Mrs W said if that had been made  clear,  her mother would have known to shop  around.  Ive 
thought about this, but this isnt something I would have expected  L&G to tell Mrs B. And 
there was no requirement for L&G to proactively offer newer  products to its customers.  
Ref: DRN16307823Renewing home  insurance can involve a bit of time and effort  to get the best terms. People 
who take the time to shop around  often end up paying less. But I dont think L&G should 
have to compensate  Mrs B for this in the circumstances  of her complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B but I do not think L&G acted unfairly so 
dont uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1630782