K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the compensation offered to him by Bank of Scotland  plc in 
relation to a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
In 1996 Mr W was sold a PPI policy to cover  his mortgage repayments  against him not being 
able to work because  of accident, sickness or unemployment.
In 1999 Mr W fell seriously ill. He had to give up work as a result.  Mr W says he contacted 
BoS but was told he had no cover  in place.
In 2018 Mr W complained to BoS about the sale of the policy. My understanding is that he 
contacted a claims management company  (CMC) which conducted a search and informed  
him that he was sold a PPI policy in 1996. 
BoS wrote  to Mr W in July 2018,  it offered, and paid, Mr W £2,189.48 for the mis-sale of the 
PPI policy.
Then in October  2018 BoS wrote  again  to Mr W. In its letter it offered Mr W a further  
£2,779.03. BoS had accepted that Mr W couldve made a claim on his policy in 1999.             
So BoS offered  to refund £2,400, which it said was the maximum he could have claimed, 
plus compensatory interest  calculated at 8% simple from the time Mr W couldve claimed on 
the policy. It then deducted the £2,189.48  Mr W had already received for the mis-sale of the 
policy. In total, across the two offers Mr W received £4,968.51.
Later in October  2018 BoS wrote  again  to Mr W clarifying what  itd done and also offered   
Mr W £500 as a gesture  of goodwill which  Mr W declined.
Separately to this complaint  I can see BoS paid Mr W a further £2,000 for a backdated claim 
on a credit card PPI policy hed also held in 1999.  
Mr W wasnt happy with BoS gesture of goodwill offer of £500.  Mr W says that when his 
claim wasnt successful in 1999 it caused  him a lot of distress at a time when he was 
seriously ill. It also caused him financial hardship and Mr W has told us he had to sell a 
motorbike in 1999 in order to keep  up the mortgage repayments. He wants  additional 
compensation for all this.
Our adjudicator thought that BoS offer was fair. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  
findings so the complaint was passed to me.
In March 2019 I issued my provisional findings on Mr Ws complaint and invited both parties  
to comment and send  me any additional evidence they wanted  me to think  about. 
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to find that BoS offer was fair, my main 
reasons were:
Although Mr W hadnt complained about the method BoS used  to calculate the 
compensation it paid him, I checked  that BoS had calculated it in the way wed 
expect it to. Having  done so I thought  BoS had calculated the compensation 
correctly.
Ref: DRN16370542I also thought  the £500 BoS offered as a gesture of goodwill was fair.
Mr W remembered making a call to BoS and being told he had no cover. But on the 
other hand BoS told us it has no record of Mr Ws call. BoS showed us a copy  of its 
internal system which would show information  about claims enquiries on the policy. 
And I can see there are no entries.
BoS pointed  out that Mr W held a BoS mortgage from 1993 until 1996. In 1996 Mr W 
re-mortgaged. His new mortgage was with a different  company, although I 
understand it was part of the BoS group  at the time. BoS told us the new mortgage 
was arranged via a third party.
And BoS has also shown us a copy of a renewal  notice for the PPI policy dated 
September 2001 which  is addressed  to Mr W and contains a policy  number along  
with brief details of the cover  provided.  This letter seems to have been sent to Mr W 
by the insurer.
Ive also seen evidence that the PPI policy continued to be in force  until 2004 when 
the mortgage was repaid.
While  I have no doubt Mr W contacted someone to ask about whether his mortgage  
was covered in 1999, I cant be certain who he called. He may have contacted BoS to 
ask about cover  or he may have  called the new provider of his mortgage. 
I also cant be certain what he was told at the time. Mr W can recall  being told he had 
no cover  for the mortgage. But I have to take into account that the call was made 
some 18 years ago and memories do fade.  
And Mr W would  likely have received some documents from the insurer about the 
policy in 1996  when it was sold to him. And Ive seen a renewal notice from 2001. So 
it was possible for Mr W to call the insurer directly about the policy.
BoS has paid Mr W the amount he wouldve  got for the maximum successful claim. 
And its added  interest to that amount to compensate him for all the time hes been 
out of pocket. This is what Id expect it to do.
Mr W sold a motorbike for £2,400  at the time he became ill and has said he wouldnt 
have had to do that if BoS had told him he had cover and he had made  a claim. But 
the PPI payments would only have replaced  part of Mr Ws lost income so I thought it 
possible he wouldve sold the motorbike anyway.
BoS hasnt added anything further since I issued my provisional  findings
Mr W has contacted us to say he disagrees with my initial findings. Ive listened to Mr Ws 
telephone calls and read the emails he has sent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN16370543complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr W emailed us after I issued my provisional findings to say hed made unsuccessful 
enquires about how his mortgage  was arranged in 1996 at the time the PPI was sold.
The PPI was sold to Mr W in 1996 around  the time he re-mortgaged. Mr W first took his 
mortgage with BoS in 1993. BoS has told its not clear who sold Mr W the PPI or how it was 
sold. But BoS told us that although it couldnt  tell how the policy was sold, it had taken 
responsibility for the complaint and assessed  it as if it sold the PPI and had given Mr W 
advice. This meant it had a responsibility  to ensure it was right for Mr W. BoS subsequently 
upheld the complaint about the mis-sale  of the policy and offered compensation.
Because of this I have not looked into how the policy was sold to Mr W or which company 
sold it to him as it makes  no difference  to the outcome of the complaint. In this decision I am 
only looking  at what BoS has done to put things right and whether it needs to do anything  
different.
Mr W has told us he isnt happy with how the compensation for the mis-sale and backdated 
claim was calculated. And he also doesnt think  it fair that BoS deducted the compensation 
for the mis-sale from the compensation it calculated  because  Mr W didnt make a claim in 
1999.
I looked first at how the compensation  for the mis-sale was calculated.  When  a PPI policy  is 
found to be mis-sold, the aim of the compensation is to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in if it hadnt been  sold. In this case Id expect BoS to refund all the premiums  paid 
by Mr W. And Id expect BoS to add compensatory interest at 8% simple  to those premiums 
to compensate for the time Mr W was out of pocket.  I can see BoS refunded total PPI 
premiums of £1,002.64.  It added compensatory interest of £1,186.84 (net of tax), making a 
total of £2,189.48. So Im satisfied BoS calculated the compensation for the mis-sale 
correctly.
Turning to the compensation BoS calculated for the claim that Mr W could have made  in 
1999. In my provisional  findings I incorrectly stated that the maximum claim period for the 
policy was 24 months.  Having checked  the 1996  policy terms and conditions I can see the 
maximum claim period was actually 12 months.  I apologise to Mr W for this error.
The policy benefit  was £200 per month. So the maximum Mr W could have claimed on the 
policy was £200  per month for 12 months.  So BoS offered to refund £2,400 plus 
compensatory interest  calculated at 8% simple from the time Mr W couldve claimed  on the 
policy. Again  this is what Id expect  BoS to do.
But BoS then deducted the compensation it had already paid Mr W for the mis-sale from the 
amount it owed him for the claim he didnt make in 1999. This left a balance  of £2,779.03 
which BoS paid to Mr W. So in total,  across  the two offers  Mr W received £4,968.51.
Mr W is unhappy that BoS deducted  the mis-sale compensation from the compensation for 
the claim he didnt make.  So Mr W says BoS still owes him £2,189.48.
Ive thought about this but I think what BoS has done is fair. The compensation for the      
mis-sale is intended to put Mr W in the position  hed be in if the mis-sale had not taken place 
and he was not sold the policy.
Ref: DRN16370544It follows that if Mr W had not been  sold the policy, then he wouldnt have  been  able to make 
a claim in 1999. So it wouldnt be fair for Mr W to receive compensation for being mis-sold 
the policy and for not making a claim on it. In this case BoS has effectively paid Mr W the 
higher amount, the amount he would have received if hed made a successful claim plus 
interest. That follows this services usual approach in similar circumstances and I think  that is 
fair in this case.
Mr W remains unhappy with the £500 goodwill offer made by BoS.  
When BoS wrote to Mr W in October 2018  it said:
Im contacting you regarding the advice you received  in 1999 that you did not have  a
Mortgage Payment  Protection Insurance (MPPI)  policy in place.  Im sorry this advice was 
incorrect and have  considered that as a result  of this you were unable  to make a claim in
October 1999.
But in its submissions to this service BoS has also told us it has no record  of Mr Ws call. Its 
shown us a copy  of its internal system  which would  show  information about claims enquiries 
on the policy. And I can see there are no entries.
BoS has also pointed  to the fact that Mr W continued to pay the PPI premiums  for several 
years until 2004 and these would have  appeared on either his annual  mortgage statement or 
monthly on his bank account  statement.   
BoS has also shown  us a copy of a renewal notice for the PPI policy  dated in 2001 which 
seems to have been sent from the policy insurer was addressed  to Mr W. 
I have no doubt  Mr W contacted someone  to ask about whether his mortgage was covered 
in 1999, I cant  be certain  who he called. He may have contacted  BoS to ask about cover or 
he may have called the provider of his mortgage since  1996. 
I also cant be certain what was said at the time.  Mr W can recall being told he had no cover 
for the mortgage.  But I have to take into account  that the call was made some 18 years ago 
and memories do fade. 
And Mr W would likely have received some documents from the insurer about the policy in 
1996 when it was sold to him. And Ive seen a renewal notice from 2001. So it was possible 
for Mr W to call the insurer directly about the policy, but Ive seen no evidence that he did so.
I also note Mr W held a credit  card in 1999 which also had a PPI policy  attached to it. The 
PPI premiums for that policy would have appeared on Mr Ws monthly  credit  card 
statements. Mr W didnt  make a claim on that policy either. I note BoS has paid Mr W for a 
backdated claim on that policy.
Taking all of this into account,  without  any more persuasive evidence  about what  happened 
in 1999 I dont think itd be fair or reasonable for me to make any further award  against  BoS.  
I note Mr W sold a motorbike for £2,400 at the time he became  ill and has said he wouldnt 
have had to do that if BoS had told him he had cover and he had made  a claim. Mr W has 
said the same motorbike today would be worth  between  £6,500  and £10,000. Ive thought 
about this. But even if Mr W had made  a claim at the time the policy wouldve given him 
Ref: DRN16370545£200 per month for up to 12 months.  Although this would have been  useful  to Mr W, I dont 
think it wouldve likely been sufficient to replace  all his lost income so I think its likely he 
wouldve sold the motorbike anyway.
In his complaint  Mr W has also questioned  whether he had a critical illness policy  that he 
couldve claimed on in 1999.
Ive looked at details of the PPI policy Mr W held and I can see that it covered against 
accident, sickness and unemployment only and didnt provide for a lump  sum payment in the 
event of a critical illness.
BoS has searched its records and cant find any evidence of a separate  critical illness policy  
held with BoS. But I can see BoS has told us it provided Mr W with information about direct 
debits from his account to other companies which may have  provided  such  cover. Mr W can 
use this information  to contact the companies  to ask about the cover he was paying  for in 
1999.
In summary  I think BoS has compensated Mr W in the way Id expect it to for the backdated  
claim and the mis-sale  of the PPI.
I think its fair for BoS to deduct the compensation for the mis-sold policy from the 
compensation for the backdated  claim.
And taking  everything  into account,  I think BoS goodwill offer of an additional £500 is fair 
taking into account  all the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Bank  of Scotland  plc has fairly compensated Mr W for the mis-
sale of the PPI and for the backdated  PPI claim. 
I think Bank of Scotland plcs goodwill offer of £500  is fair given  the circumstances of this 
complaint, and I make no further award against  Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1637054