K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy in October 2005  around the same  time as they applied for a 
mortgage. They were  sold the PPI during a telephone conversation.
 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr G for accident and sickness    subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £410 a month towards Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage balance  in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £13.34  a month. 
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as a waste manager. He has told us he was not entitled to 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying their mortgage should he be 
unable to work.
Mr G told us he experienced back pain in 2003 for which he took painkillers. Mr G has not 
told us of any other medical conditions he had at the time of the sale in 2005
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2012. 
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs G about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs G 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN16101592The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in October 2005  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN16101593GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN16101594-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer. It makes  no mention of the PPI but it 
does state that the only insurance they had to take out was buildings  insurance. And Ive 
seen that the PPI was paid for separately  to their mortgage by direct debit from their bank 
account so could be cancelled at any time. And I note Mr and Mrs G did cancel it soon  after 
it began  in 2006. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs G knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
The policy was sold during a telephone conversation. Ive seen  a copy  of the demands  and 
needs form completed  by the Santander representative, so I think Mr and Mrs G were given 
advice and a recommendation to buy the policy.
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the telephone call, the documentary  evidence  
suggests that Santander took some steps  to establish whether the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs G. The adviser  had information  about some of Mr and     
Mrs Gs financial  circumstances  as part of the mortgage application. But although a 
demands and needs  statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs G 
had a need for the policy  by asking questions about their wider circumstances I dont 
think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example there are limited questions  
on the form around Mr Gs health  and eligibility for the policy .
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN16101595-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy  Mr G would not have received any sick pay 
if he was unable  to work due to illness, and they didnt have any savings  they could 
fall back on. The policy would  have helped Mr and Mrs G manage the consequences 
if Mr G was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs G. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs G. 
There was nothing  about Mr Gs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. 
-
-Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr G has told us he suffered back pains 
in 2003 some three years before the policy came  into force. Ive not seen any 
evidence to show that Mr G continued  to suffer from back  pain in the 12 months 
before the policy was sold to him so it doesnt  appear this would be caught  by the 
policy limitations and exclusions. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr G be disabled  or unemployed for 28 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs G be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs G 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr G was unable to work through accident  or sickness  and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs G all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN16101596Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Gs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs G suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs G. So I have gone on to consider  whether  it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  out the policy,  had Santander  done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs G suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs G would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN16101597return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event Mr 
G was unable to work  because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs G applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs G 
would have been told the cost before the policy started.  
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs G would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the call in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs G would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Gs expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions Mr G had at the start date 
or any condition for which he had treatment or received  advice from a doctor  for in 
the 12 months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr G be unable  to 
do his own job or any other  employment  which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr G was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
Ref: DRN16101598suggest Mr G wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mr G continued to suffer from back pain after 2003  or that he had treatment for 
it in the 12 months  before  the policy start.  And Mr G was in permanent employment.  So, I 
still think Mr and Mrs G had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr G would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr G had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to do his job  
but any job which in the insurers view he might reasonably be qualified for, it might have 
played into Mr and Mrs Gs thinking about  what they would do. And I accept it may have 
given them pause for thought  although  given Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and the 
limited other means they had to make their repayments if Mr G was not working, on balance, 
I still think they would have been  interested in taking out the cover.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs G that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
12-month. This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for  but 
they didnt have any other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs G would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr G be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr G was unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs G would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN16101599Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and   
Mrs G, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2005  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs G and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN161015910my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1610159