K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that British Gas Insurance Limited  gave poor service under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold it responsible.
Miss P has two children  living with her. She had British Gas cover for her central heating and 
hot water  system. She called for help and had many visits from British Gas.  She paid for a 
new Hive control and new radiators.  
But it was only after a visit from the boiler manufacturer  that her system worked properly. So 
Miss P complained that British Gas had caused her to spend money unnecessarily instead  
of fixing her system sooner.
In its final response letter,  British Gas offered £210.00, made up of several elements  
including £20.00 for delay  by the manufacturers  engineer.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think  that 
£210.00 reflected  the distress and inconvenience in the delay in getting the issue  resolved 
between November 2017 and February 2018.  She also didnt think  £20.00 was a fair offer for 
the delay caused by the manufacturers engineer.  The investigator  recommended  that British 
Gas should pay Miss P an additional  £200.00 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Miss P disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that British Gas should pay more compensation, including 
for the Hive and radiators.
British Gas disagreed  with the investigators  opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review  
the complaint.  It says,  in summary,  that there had been a reasonable consideration with its 
offer of £210.00,  but in addition a further  £100.00 would be fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the British Gas records, I think Miss Ps programmer had stopped working  in 
December 2016.  I see that British Gas recommended  and sold a Hive to Miss P. I cant say 
that was unfair or unreasonable.
In February 2017  British  Gas gave Miss P a quote  for new radiators. Its records  suggest that 
this was at her request. And in any event Miss P didnt accept the quotation. From what  she 
says, another  company supplied and fitted the new radiators. So I dont think that British Gas 
caused Miss P the cost of the radiators.
I dont think Miss P had made British Gas aware  of any ongoing issues  until she called 
British Gas out again on 30 November  2017. I think at that stage  she was finding  the house  
Ref: DRN12338682wasnt warm enough. British Gas made  a note that the radiators were  under-sized for her 
house.
By early January 2018 I think  Miss P had a problem with hot water.  British  Gas visited on 4 
January and ordered a replacement heat exchanger and a motorised diverter  valve. On 9 
January it removed and cleaned  the heat exchanger but did not replace  it. It replaced the 
diverter valve.
By 19 January 2018 Miss P had complained. So I accept that she still had a problem. 
From its file and her emails,  I think British Gas shouldve done  more to contact Miss P. there 
was some delay before  it eventually agreed  her request to arrange a visit from the boiler 
manufacturer. 
I think the manufacturer visited on about 12 February. But on 14 February  Miss P reported  
that she was without hot water upstairs.  And on 19 February the manufacturer  cancelled an 
appointment. As the manufacturer  was attending  in lieu of British Gas, I hold British  Gas 
responsible for the delays and shortcomings  of the manufacturer in February  2018.
I think it was 27 February  2018  by the time the manufacturer fixed the boiler.
From what  she says,  Miss P believes that British Gas shouldve done in about December 
2016 what the manufacturer did in February  2018. And she thinks  that wouldve saved her 
the expense of the Hive and new radiators.
But I think that there was a series of problems including  the programmer in December 2016, 
the diverter valve in January  2018  as well as whatever  the manufacturer replaced in 
February 2018. I dont  find it fair to attribute all the problems to the problem that was fixed  
most recently.
In any event I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to reimburse what she 
paid for the Hive or for the new radiators.
But I accept that Miss P had multiple  visits from British Gas engineers. Each time she had to 
arrange to be at home. And she complained that they walked on her carpet without taking 
their boots off. 
Despite many visits, Miss P was left with poor heating and hot water for longer than she 
shouldve been  in winter 2018.  I accept that she had to boil kettles  and struggled to bath her 
children.
So I agree that £210.00  wasnt enough  compensation. I agree with the investigator that 
British Gas should pay Miss P a further  £200.00  for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Miss P  in addition to its cheque for £210.00  
an additional  £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Ref: DRN12338683Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1233868