K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, will not refund some disputed  
transactions.
He is helped in this complaint by his father  also Mr R  but, for ease, any reference  I make  
to Mr R in this decision will be in relation to Mr R junior.
background
On the night of 17th November 2018  through to the early morning of 18th November  2018,  a 
large number of transactions were made on Mr Rs account.  These included transfers into 
his Halifax account  and then faster payments out to a new payee.  A number of ATM 
transactions were  also made.
Mr R accepts he made and authorised the earlier transactions on 17th November but not the 
latter ones.  He said he had arranged for the services of an escort that evening and had 
been instructed  to attend a flat nearby.   Once  he arrived,  he made a payment to one escort - 
A - but he then discussed  other services with her which included another  escort   B.
He says he was given alcohol throughout the course of the evening and was also offered 
cocaine.  He felt pressured  into taking  these and because he was not used to either,  he said 
they had a considerable effect  on him.  He cant be certain he was conscious  throughout the 
evening.
Since arriving at the flat, Mr R accepts  he authorised  and made five faster payments to A.  
He says A was watching whilst he was doing this and could easily have  seen his secure  
information and the fact that the transfers  required his fingerprint. But he says he does not  
recall making or authorising any payment after that.
After a first payment was made to B, an attempt was made to make another  for £2000  but 
this transfer was blocked by Halifax.  A  further  attempt to transfer to A was also blocked.  
Mr R then recalls  being  told he needed to speak  to Halifax because his account had been 
blocked.  He does that and tells the Halifax  representative that he would like to confirm  the 
transfer. The representative questions him about the payments and asks the questions one 
would expect a bank to ask where  it has seen transactions  of a suspicious nature.  
Eventually, Mr R is told in order to verify the transfers,  he needs to take photographic ID into 
a branch.
Mr R says A and B then suggested a visit to a casino but that was unsuccessful because  Mr 
R did not have  identification on him. It was at this point  that Mr R was left to return home.
Mr R complained to Halifax about  some  of these transactions.  He  said he is a vulnerable 
customer in that he has been diagnosed with autism. He said Halifax failed to protect  him 
and notice unusual  activity on his account.  He explained this had had a huge  impact on him 
and his confidence and that on the night of the transactions,  he had felt intimidated into 
doing things he wouldnt normally  do.
But his complaint was not upheld.  In its final response to Mr R dated 6th December 2018, 
Halifax said:
Ref: DRN18071972-the transactions were made using Mr Rs fingerprint;
-he spoke to the bank on the phone and was clearly trying to make  further  payments;
-he was conscious  at the time so this showed  he authorised the payments;
-in the circumstances, Halifax was not accepting the transactions as fraud;
-Mr R should contact  the police if he says he was made to make  the transfers against 
his will.
In its submissions to this service, it re-iterated its reasons  for rejecting Mr R complaint.
So, our investigator looked  into Mr Rs complaint for him. She thought  the evidence of 
authorisation for all of the transactions was inconclusive  but she reminded Halifax of the 
relevant Code of Practice BSI October 2017 Protecting Customers  from Financial harm as a 
result or financial abuse.   Relying on this, she said Halifax could have done more for Mr R 
during those hours on 17th and 18th November  and she thought  it should refund  money  
from the point where the amounts had increased  considerably. In total, she thought it would 
be fair for Halifax to refund £4,900 in faster payments  and £500  withdrawn  from an ATM.
Halifax did not agree.  In  its response  to the investigator, it said its fraud detection system 
had worked appropriately and that the evidence  was conclusive in that Mr R had authorised 
all the transactions.   It suggested the complaint was now being brought because essentially, 
Mr R had regretted something he had done  whilst  under the influence.  
Halifax asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators' rules, guidance  and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).   
Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
Ref: DRN18071973identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr R when the transfers from his account began to increase in number and value - or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did. 
I think it is fair to say that the multi-step nature of the Banking Protocol recognises that there  
may be situations where the customer provides  as a result of social  engineering  a false 
cover story and that the onus  is on the bank staff/manager to make a judgement  about 
whether the customer  could be a victim of fraud (and not to rely on the customers story or 
assurances).
Mr R has accepted that he authorised the earlier transfers himself  whilst he still had the 
ability to understand  what  he was doing.  Because of this, Halifax had an obligation  to follow  
Mr Rs instruction. But there are some  situations in which it should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding  the transfer.
In the circumstances of this particular complaint, Ive looked at the statements  for the 
account, and I think  the type of payments and the amounts were  unusual and suspicious in 
comparison to the normal activity on Mr Rs account.  From what Ive seen, there is no 
previous activity on Mr Rs account which resembles anything  like what was happening over 
the period of these transactions.
So, whilst I accept Halifax intervened when it did, I think  it should have done so sooner  at 
the point which the investigator refers to.  I think if Halifax had blocked Mr Rs card sooner 
and asked him to confirm  that he was happy  with the value of the payments, it might have 
been able to pick up that something wasnt right.  Ive listened to the call made to Halifax  
when he asks for the payments to go through  and I am afraid  I do not agree  with Halifax as 
to Mr Rs state of intoxication. Other voices can be heard in the background and Mr R is 
clearly confused about what he is asking  Halifax to do and what  is being asked of him.
Halifax says it wasnt on notice as to Mr Rs vulnerability.  Ive  noted that and Ive taken that 
into account in arriving at my decision.
I started  by saying that I need to make  a decision which is fair and reasonable  taking into 
account relevant  laws and regulations as well as good industry practice. Having  done  so, I 
Ref: DRN18071974arrive at the same conclusion as the investigator   Halifax could have done more  here and 
so, it is fair and reasonable that it refunds some of these transactions.  I think the starting 
point indicated by the investigator  is a fair one in that the amounts began to increase in a 
short space of time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax should refund the following to Mr R:
-£4,900 in faster payments
-£500 in ATM withdrawals.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1807197