K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains a car supplied to him by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) under a hire purchase  agreement  is defective.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
In brief summary, I concluded the door hinges  of the car were working as designed and not 
defective. I accepted  that the doors had a tendency to close easily,  and that when the car 
was on a slight incline,  the doors tended  to close on their own from the fully-open position 
unless held in place for a time,  and that very little force was required to start the doors 
closing when in this position. However,  the relevant test was whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality, and I didnt think the behaviour of the doors meant they,  the hinges or 
the car failed  to meet that standard. I said I was minded not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
MBFS acknowledged the provisional  decision but didnt add any further comments. Mr C 
disagreed with the provisional decision and provided further commentary and evidence  to 
support his position. I will not repeat  all of this here,  but Mr Cs points could be summarised  
as:
His other three cars from the same  manufacturer (including two older  versions of the 
same model)  have  had doors which stay comfortably open in all positions, regardless 
of wind conditions. It would be expected  for the holding  ability  of doors  to improve 
over various iterations  of car model,  rather than get worse.
The current door hinges are under-engineered and simply dont perform well enough  
to be safe, especially  when children may be using the doors.  
He felt the independent engineers  report made it clear the mechanisms in place to 
hold the doors underperformed and that they needed to be redesigned.
He has sought  further comment from the independent engineer,  who has clarified 
that the door hinges must safely operate under all condition  and terrain  and not just 
simply function under showroom or workshop conditions. He also clarified  that the 
doors would  close  with a feather light  touch.
The case  has since been returned to me to review again.
    
My findings
Ive considered once  again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I continue with my findings  I want to apologise to Mr C for the length  of time it has 
taken to make a decision on his case.  He has commented on how long this process has 
taken and he is right to do so. 
Ref: DRN18267522Ive thought carefully about Mr Cs further  evidence and arguments. He has focused mainly 
on the door hinges being poorly-designed and the doors therefore being  unsafe, and the 
difference between  the doors  on this car and on his older cars. These are points Mr C has 
made from early on in his dispute with MBFS and I had already considered  them in my 
provisional decision. Unless there  is new evidence  to support a conclusion  that the door 
hinges (and therefore the car) are not of satisfactory quality, I see no reason to change  the 
conclusions I arrived at previously.
The new evidence put forward by Mr C has been  the clarification from the independent 
engineer, which in my view doesnt  provide  much  additional support to his case.  I had 
already assumed in my provisional decision that the doors should operate  safely  outside of 
workshop or showroom  conditions, and I was aware  that only a very small amount of force  
was required to cause  them  to close when opened on a slight incline (feather light or 
otherwise).
I appreciate Mr C is concerned about the safety  of his children, and the way he feels about  
the car is understandable.  But as I mentioned  earlier, the relevant test is to determine  
whether the car he has been  supplied  is of satisfactory quality. If it isnt, then he has a right 
to reject it under the Consumer Rights Act 2015.  It remains my view that it doesnt follow  that 
if car doors have a tendency to close on a slight incline, that this means the hinges  are of a 
defective design, or that the car is unfit for purpose,  unsafe or not of satisfactory quality. As I 
said in my provisional decision, I think the evidence shows doors which appear to be 
operating within an acceptable range, and that the car is of satisfactory quality. Im therefore 
unable to conclude  Mr C can reject  the car and end his agreement with MBFS.
Its clear this is an issue Mr C feels strongly  about, and he doesnt have to accept my 
decision. If he does  not, then he is free to pursue  his concerns about the car through  
alternative avenues,  such  as the courts, if he chooses to do so.
Finally, I understand  Mr Cs financial situation has been affected by the recent coronavirus 
pandemic. I remind MBFS that I would expect  it to adhere to the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys temporary  guidance  for firms  which applies to the exceptional 
circumstances arising  out of the coronavirus pandemic.
My final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN18267523COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr C complains a car supplied  to him by Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
under a hire purchase agreement is defective.
Background
Mr C acquired a new car costing £45,262.93 from MBFS on a hire purchase agreement in September 
2018. Under  the agreement Mr C was expected to pay £563  per month for 48 months,  and an 
optional balloon payment of £20,425 if he wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement. Mr C 
traded in his previous car as part of the deal.
A few days after he collected  the car, Mr C discovered the doors  did not operate as he expected them  
to. He said there appeared to be very little resistance to the doors  closing when they were held open, 
meaning they would close without warning and would not stay open on a slight incline. Because Mr C 
has small children and a gently sloping driveway, he considered this to be dangerous. When  one of 
his children was nearly struck by a closing door, he told the salesperson  at the dealership about his 
concerns.
The salesperson noted the door hinges on the new car were different  to those  on other vehicles  from 
the same manufacturer  that Mr C had owned, but the design was the same on all new vehicles  in the 
range, so there was nothing  to be done about it. Mr C said if no adjustment or modification  could be 
made then he wanted to hand back the car and unwind  the deal, as he did not think the design  was 
safe enough and fit for purpose for a family car.
The dealership then asked  to take the car in to inspect the doors. It did so, and concluded that there 
was no fault.  It referred Mr C, who remained  unhappy, to MBFS. 
MBFS said it wouldnt  allow  Mr C to reject  the car. It said the doors  were not faulty and the holding 
points at the midway and fully-open  positions were not to be relied on as locking  points to hold the 
doors open. Dissatisfied with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service where it was 
looked into by one our investigators. 
Our investigator gathered  further evidence. This included videos of Mr C opening the doors  on the car 
and comparing it to the other car he owned from the same manufacturer. MBFS provided  videos of 
their own, in which the same  model  parked on a slight slope showed the same behaviour as Mr Cs 
car. Mr C also asked a consulting engineer  to inspect and report on the doors.
Our investigator considered the evidence and thought  the complaint should  be upheld, reasoning that 
the videos and the engineers report indicated  the doors didnt operate in the way a reasonable 
person would  expect and that they were faulty.  She recommended MBFS allow Mr C to reject the car, 
receiving a refund  of his deposit  (along  with compensatory interest),  75% of the repayments hed 
already made, the cost of the engineers report, plus £100 compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
MBFS said it strongly disagreed with these  findings.  As no agreement could be reached the case has 
now been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently of the view that the complaint should  
not be upheld. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN18267524The agreement Mr C has entered into with MBFS is a contract to supply goods under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA).  The provisions of the CRA mean that MBFS,  as the supplier of the car, 
needs to make sure it was of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied to Mr C.
Satisfactory quality means the standard a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory, taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price paid, and any other relevant  circumstances. If the car 
in this case was not of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied to Mr C, he has certain rights under 
the CRA. Depending on the circumstances,  these rights include  the right to a repair  or replacement,  
or to reject  the vehicle and bring  the agreement to an end.
The evidence  supplied by both parties
There appears to be no dispute that the doors behave in the way Mr C has described when the car is 
parked on a slight slope. The videos  supplied by both parties demonstrate this. Where Mr C and 
MBFS differ  is on the significance of the behaviour. They have both made  detailed submissions  on 
this question, but I think  a fair summary  would be that Mr C says it makes the doors unsafe and that 
the car isnt suitable for a family with young children. MBFS, on the other hand,  says all models from 
the manufacturer are made  with the same door hinges, the hinges are working as designed,  and the 
behaviour of the doors doesnt represent a safety issue.  
Ive carefully considered the engineers report obtained by Mr C. During his inspection, the engineer 
tested the operation of the doors on level ground and on Mr Cs sloping driveway.  On level ground the 
engineer reported the doors held in position at the half-way point and generally held when opened 
fully so long as this was done  carefully, without bouncing the door off the hinge. On a slight gradient 
the engineer  reported  the doors  held at the half-way point but closed by themselves when opened 
fully, unless  they were  held open for a couple of seconds,  and a light gust of wind caused  one of the 
front doors to close from the fully-opened position. He also found that lightly touching the door while 
open would cause it to close. 
The engineer drew  a number of conclusions  from these findings, including that the lower door hinges 
were not sufficiently robust  to ensure the doors closed  safely and without risking injury  to people 
without enough strength to restrain  the doors, such as children. He said his opinion was that the hinge  
units needed  to be re-engineered  or redesigned.
MBFS has said it strongly disagrees  with the report. It said that the report simply showed the hinges  
worked as expected, holding the doors open unless external force  (for example, wind, inclines or 
bouncing the door) was applied, exceeding the limits of the hinges  and causing the doors  to close. 
MBFS argues this is simply a case of physics and its not reasonable to expect the doors to hold open 
in all conditions. 
The question of satisfactory quality in relation  to the door hinges
The CRA contains  a list of various  aspects of what make  up satisfactory quality. The most  relevant 
ones to this case are safety, freedom from minor  defects and fitness  for all the purposes for which  
goods of that kind are usually supplied. 
It seems all who have commented on the door hinges agree that they are working as designed, so I 
dont think I can conclude the hinges  on Mr Cs car are defective.  Mr C says it is the design  which is 
the problem, supported by the conclusions of the independent engineer. This design  problem means 
the hinges  are inadequate  to keep the doors open, causing a safety issue and making the car 
unsuitable for family use. The result is that the car is not of satisfactory quality.  This, at least, is the 
conclusion Im invited to reach.
But I dont think it is a conclusion I can reasonably arrive at. The conclusions of the engineers report 
do not, in my view,  flow logically  from its findings. The report seems  to find the doors  operate normally 
on level ground,  holding at the midway and fully-open  points unless  opened with enough force  that 
they bounce back off the hinges. This doesnt strike me as unusual,  or something which would mean 
Ref: DRN18267525the doors are unsafe by design. The findings  on a slight incline were that the doors held at the mid-
way point  but tended to close from the fully-open position unless held in place for a couple of 
seconds. The engineer also found that only a small  amount of force  was required to cause the doors 
to close  from this position.  
But I dont think it follows that the door hinges are inadequate for the task of keeping the doors  open,  
and that this means the car is unsafe, unfit for family use or of unsatisfactory quality. Having seen the 
evidence I think the behaviour of Mr Cs doors falls within  what I would consider to be an acceptable 
range. Mr C has noted other customers  of the manufacturer share  the same view as him, and 
evidence of this can be found online. Ive followed this line of enquiry and was able to find a small 
number of posts  on internet  forums where people have expressed similar  opinions to Mr C about  the 
doors on cars of the same make and model. But the number  of posts does not suggest  to me that this 
is a widely-held view.
Rather than being a sign of a design defect,  I think the tendency  of the doors to close easily is a 
normal behaviour of the model  of car Mr C has. Different people may hold different opinions about the 
behaviour of a car: some may find it particularly undesirable while others are unconcerned by it. Mr C 
finds the behaviour  of the car in this case very undesirable. But this does not necessarily  mean  the 
car is not of satisfactory  quality, and that is the conclusion I have reached here. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think the car is of satisfactory quality, and it follows that I dont think Mr C can 
require MBFS to take it back and end his agreement.
My provisional decision
I am minded  not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I now invite  both parties to the complaint to submit any 
further comments, evidence and arguments  for me to consider. They should ensure these  reach me 
by 21 May 2020. I will then review the case again. If either  party  needs more time to make  
submissions, it should contact the Financial  Ombudsman Service to agree  an extension.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1826752