K821x#15complaint
Mrs S questions whether  Bank of Scotland plc shouldve  advised her and her late husband 
to invest any money  in the Halifax High Income Trust (Corporate bond fund). As such, she is 
not convinced  its compensation offer (based  on its recent assessment that they should  have 
only invested half the recommended sum)  was fair.
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs S were 67 and 60 respectively,  had a net monthly income of £756 and 
£22,600 in savings. Mr S was retired and had been in poor health for years  and Mrs S was 
no longer working.
BoS advised them to invest £16,200 in the above  product. 
In 2018 Mrs S complained via a Claims Management company (CMC). From its Final 
Response Letter (FRL)  it appears that BoS had previously rung Mrs S to tell her it had 
concluded that the advisor should only have  recommended investing  half the amount in 
question, keeping the rest risk-free, and was offering redress  on this basis. 
According to the FRL Mrs S had accepted  this outcome over the phone  and so it was 
therefore now going to pay the appropriate  sum into her account.  This letter  also offered her 
the opportunity  to refer her complaint to this service, which  she did via the CMC. 
An adjudicator at this service  felt her complaint should be upheld.
He said Mr and Mrs S were recorded as having  a cautious-medium attitude  to risk although 
there was very little in the way of further explanation  as to how this assessment was arrived 
at. By contrast he felt the investment had a risk of significant losses.  He therefore  wasnt 
persuaded that this was suitable,  particularly as Mr and Mrs S were  first-time  investors and 
needed more  than their income each month to live on.
He said that while they had some  savings, he didnt think they were in a reasonable enough 
position to take a risk with their limited  funds given they were retired  and had little scope to 
recover from any losses. He felt their savings were required to last them  and that any losses  
would put them under pressure.
BoS did not agree, and said:
When it spoke with Mrs S she accepted its outcome but was concerned  at the fee 
charged by her representative,  the CMC
It made a redress payment to Mrs C, and then the CMC referred the complaint to this 
service. Does  the CMC not advise the customer to contact them  prior to accepting a 
payment if the customer is not happy  to accept the offer made?
Mrs S confirmed  on the phone that they were  looking for an income from their 
money, saying they closed the plans down because the investments were no longer 
offering the previous level of income
Mr and Mrs S had £22,600 in deposit  based savings and wanted to discuss  
alternatives. They had two face-to-face  appointments and were  provided with all the 
relevant information.  They kept the investments for six years
It is clear that the plans were affordable but it accepted that Mr and Mrs S were 
advised to invest  too much  of their money
Ref: DRN14632172This service has previously commented that age is not a barrier to investment, and 
that customers were free to invest at any age
The Corporate Bond  Fund was a low risk fund which had the potential  for greater 
returns than deposit-based  accounts - which is what Mr and Mrs S wanted
Based  on its redress offer, Mr and Mrs S would have had over £11,000 left on 
deposit
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Firstly, BoS gave Mrs S referral rights  to bring her complaint to this service if she was not 
satisfied with its Final Decision. She did this via the CMC who was acting on her behalf and 
with her written authority to do so. We are therefore entitled and required to assess  the 
suitability of BoS compensation offer i.e. whether it was fair and reasonable.
On the merits of the case, the adjudicator  outlined  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time 
of advice in some detail  so I have not repeated all these, including their various health and 
other challenges. But having  considering all of them, I am satisfied that they should  not have  
been recommended  to take any risk with their money. Their finances were  extremely  tight; 
they were clearly relying on their savings to support  them in retirement and any reduction  in 
the value of their money was likely to have an impact on that retirement.
While I agree that age is not a barrier to investing it is a major factor to be considered  
alongside all other circumstances,  particularly when someone is no longer working and has 
no apparent means  of replacing any losses.
From what  BoS has produced, there  is no persuasive evidence to demonstrate that the 
advisor fully made Mr and Mrs S aware of the risks posed by investing  in a product where 
the value of their money could fall significantly or that s/he seriously assessed whether they 
wanted to take such  a risk. I cannot  see how a cautious-medium risk appetite was arrived at.
Given they had no investment  experience,  and taking account of all their circumstances, I 
am satisfied  that they should have  advised them to keep all their money free from risk - and 
that they would  on the balance of probabilities  have chosen to done  this, if properly 
advised.
BoS should therefore pay comparison on this basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider my aim should be to put Mrs S as 
close to the position she would probably  now be in if she and Mr S had not been given 
unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that they would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what they would have done  differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs and Mr Ss circumstances and objectives when they invested.
Ref: DRN14632173what it should do
To compensate Mrs S fairly  it should:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Ss investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment. 
It should also pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs S in a clear, simple  format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
ISA for Mrs 
Ssurrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
ISA and 
CIP for the 
late Mr Ssurrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  it should use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published  
by the Bank of England.  The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Apply those  rates to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Ref: DRN14632174Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
it totals all those payments and deduct that figure  at the end instead  of deducting 
periodically.
Any compensation already paid can be deducted  and accounted for as appropriate.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mr and Mrs 
Ss circumstances  and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr and Mrs S would  have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return  a consumer could 
have obtained  with little risk to their capital. 
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted  household interest  rates and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, clicking  
on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted  household  interest rates / Deposit rates  - Fixed 
rate bonds  / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting  the source data.
Some examples of how the calculation should be carried out are available  on our website 
under Publications / Online Technical Resource / Investment / Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints...
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Bank of Scotland plc to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1463217