K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK Plcs  predecessor business wrongly told her that the 
chances of being given  a mortgage at her age would be much  greater if she agreed to take a 
mortgage protection policy   something she neither needed nor wanted.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 8 April 2019. In it I explained  why I felt this complaint  should  be upheld.  A copy of 
this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Santander disagreed with my provisional decision, and said:
A decreasing term critical illness  policy was the most suitable recommendation to 
protect Miss Ts mortgage given there was no other person in a position to clear  the 
mortgage if required
The employment cover for loss of earnings  was also appropriate
While  Miss T may have had various  employee  benefits and other income  
possibilities, none of these could be guaranteed so a separate protection policy  for a 
mortgage was a sensible recommendation
Miss Ts brother has approached this complaint with the benefit of hindsight  based on 
there having been no claim  and the mortgage  has been paid off
Miss T highlighted the need  for critical illness cover  on her customer  profile, and the 
advisors recommendation  was based  on the information she provided
She specifically wanted the mortgage paid off in the event of a critical illness;  the life 
cover was added  at a later date
While  Miss Ts brother  repeatedly  refers  to her having no necessary beneficiaries,  
this policy was designed to assist her in the event of serious illness
Miss T did not disclose  any of the medical issues which  her brother now refers to
While  Miss T claims she was told this policy would improve  her chances of a 
mortgage approval, she admits she knew it was only a recommendation. She would 
also have had a 14 day cooling-off period in which she could have cancelled  the 
application
One cannot be certain whether  Miss T recalled seeing the disputed sentence - about 
cover being compulsory - 19 years  ago or only discovered this after making a 
complaint, and then decided  to use it in support of her complaint. But the reference to 
the policy being required was solely for the mortgage companys benefit; this can be 
verified by the insurance company
The mortgage offer was made  on 11 December 2000 so Miss T knew she did not 
have to take out the policy. It took three  months for the policy to be 
approved/actioned so she could clearly have cancelled  it as the mortgage had 
already been greenlit
The advisor may have  said that having the policy would give her peace of mind
The full budget planner indicates that the advisor took extra care to ensure this policy  
was affordable
As we all know there is no guarantee that one can easily  or quickly get back  money 
lent to a friend or family  member, particularly if it involves a property transaction
Overall, there is no evidence that affordability ever proved an issue,  with premiums 
always paid on time
Ref: DRN10022282Miss Ts representative also responded, saying:
Miss T and her mother  (who  was present at the meeting) reiterate that the advisor 
told her these policies  would guarantee that her mortgage  application would be 
approved
She had more than enough cover already in place to pay off the mortgage,  if 
necessary
This included a policy which he enclosed (this was a form of back-to-work accident 
insurance); death-in-service cover  of 2.5 times her salary through her current  NHS  
position; a paid-up health service pension from her time in another  country; £20,000 
in equity and money  she could  easily reclaim from her parents
She should, instead, have been  advised  to put these  monthly  sums  in a high interest 
savings account
She was very vulnerable at the time and the advisor  took advantage of this
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I do still believe  the statement on the application form saying this policy was 
compulsory is significant, and may well have given  Miss T the impression  the policy was a 
condition of the mortgage.
Miss T was clearly  presented with this document as she had to sign it at the time. So 
whether she recalled seeing  it when she made  this complaint, its still evidence  as to what 
she was told, via this form,  at the time. Whatever  its technical meaning, to an ordinary client 
it implies this policy was a condition of the mortgage  and it seems more  likely than not that 
Miss T took this view.
It would at least have  reinforced her impression that she ought  to take out the policy if, as 
she claims, the advisor said this would help her mortgage application. I recognise that many  
complainants allege  that an advisor  told them that some form of life cover  was a condition of 
the mortgage. In the absence of other supporting evidence  we would rarely uphold such a 
complaint. 
However, in this case I think the misleading  application form along  with the advisors  failure 
to record Miss Ts existing cover  is sufficient to safely  say that this complaint should be 
upheld. I also think that Miss Ts particular  recollection that the advisor said this would help 
to get her a mortgage given her age is significant.  This is a very particular recollection  and 
not one Ive personally seen heard before  in complaints like this  and I find it persuasive.  
I accept a number  of Santanders  arguments;  notably that its advisor  could not have been 
expected to have understood and taken account of Miss Ts vulnerability unless she or her 
mother had pointed this out. 
I also accept that the proposed cover was specific to the mortgage and that Miss Ts other 
cover did not, in theory, mean it was completely  inappropriate to recommend this policy.  But, 
from what Ive read, the advisors record of Miss Ts position was clearly  flawed,  noting  that 
she had no existing plans  or provisions and no preserved or paid-up pension. This 
suggests that either the advisor didnt ask her these questions or failed to explain  their 
meaning and fully explore whether Miss T did have  any existing cover. 
Ref: DRN10022283It seems  unlikely  that Miss T had forgotten or was unaware that she had a paid-up pension  
from her many years working  abroad or that she had extensive  cover  through  her current  
NHS employer or that she was paying into a Royal College of Nursing additional protection 
plan.
Given this, I am satisfied that the advisor failed to put Miss T in a fully informed position as to 
whether she wanted  to go ahead with this policy, particularly given that she did not have any 
clearly-identified need to ensure the mortgage  was paid off in the event of her death. I dont 
dispute that critical illness cover is a valuable provision, even where  a client  has no need for 
a debt to be cleared in the event  of their death. But theres no evidence of the advisor 
checking with Miss T about how much cover  her various policies, and crucially her current 
NHS contract, would provide in such an event. Even though there  was no guarantee that she 
would remain with the NHS for the lifetime of the mortgage, this raises a doubt  as to her 
need to take out cover  solely for critical illness cover at that point (given her other 
protection).
Taking account of all her existing provision,  circumstances and likely objectives  none  of 
which the advisor appeared to do according to the available  evidence  I am satisfied  that 
Miss T would not have  taken out this policy if fully informed, and if she was explicitly told that 
it would  make no difference to the mortgage  approval.
Finally, the meeting with the advisor took place on 29 or 30 November 2000, this being when 
Miss T signed the application  form which stated that cover was compulsory. She 
subsequently received  the mortgage  offer letter on 11 December 2000.  The fact that the 
insurance policy did not start till later does not, in my view,  either  justify  the advisors  failure 
to clarify how much  existing cover  Miss T had, make the recommendation suitable or mean  
she ought to have realised the policy was completely optional. 
If she was led to believe it would  strongly  assist her mortgage approval,  then the fact that the 
mortgage was approved  two weeks after signing to agree to this policy  would have 
reinforced this belief. The mere fact that the policy then took some  time to be enacted  would 
not in itself have altered this belief.  I dont believe she ought to have realised she could 
cancel the policy without this affecting  her mortgage.  Even where mortgage cover is 
compulsory it may not actually start till after the mortgage but that does not mean  a client  
would be entitled  to cancel it.
For the reasons  previously explained,  I therefore  believe Santander should return the 
premiums Miss T has paid along  with appropriate interest,
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Santander UK Plc to refund the premiums Miss T has 
paid on this policy and add 8% simple interest  per annum to each payment from the date it 
was made  to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10022284provisional decision
complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK Plcs  predecessor business wrongly told her that the chances of 
being given a mortgage at her age would  be much greater if she agreed to take out the recommended  
life and critical  illness policy   something she neither needed nor wanted.
background
In 2000 a Santander advisor recommended  a 21 year £77,500  repayment mortgage,  costing  £555 a 
month, along with a life and critical illness  policy, costing roughly £90 a month.
Santander rejected her complaint. 
It said there was a clear  need to protect the mortgage borrowing. The policy  provided cover to clear  
the outstanding debt in the event of critical illness or death, and it was satisfied the recommendation 
was appropriate. The initial  sum assured matched  the mortgage  borrowing and decreased in line with 
the reducing  balance of the mortgage. The advisor  subsequently sent a report  confirming  the reasons 
for the recommendation.
It said the fact find showed  that Miss T had no other mortgage protection  and that she wanted to 
leave the property  to her family  in the event of her death.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld.  
She said she was not clear  whether the policy had been  a condition of the mortgage as there was no 
mention of this in the mortgage offer letter but the insurance application  stated that it was compulsory. 
But she still felt it was a suitable recommendation and wasnt convinced that Miss Ts various 
workplace benefits and pensions  were sufficient to pay off the mortgage if necessary.
Miss Ts representative (her brother)  did not agree, and provided further evidence and information  
about her family background,  lack of dependents, assets and financial position. I will refer to these 
issues in my provisional findings so have not listed them here. He also referred to Miss Ts mental 
health challenges which meant she was in a very vulnerable position during the meeting, and 
wouldve led her to agree to whatever the advisor  recommended  to secure  a home.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am satisfied that the policy was not a condition of the mortgage, and it is on this basis that I 
have assessed the suitability of the advice.
I acknowledge that it is, in principle, reasonable  advice  to recommend insurance protection  to cover a 
mortgage commitment, particularly if it matches the size, term and nature of that loan. But clearly  an 
advisor must spell out when insurance cover is not a requirement of the mortgage and take into 
account a clients specific circumstances when making  a recommendation.
In this case, as in most similar disputes, there is not enough evidence to reach  a definite conclusion 
about whether the advisor actively misled Miss T into thinking shed only get the mortgage if she took 
out the policy.  However, I do think there is sufficient evidence to throw doubt on whether  the advisor 
fully made clear that it was optional.
Ref: DRN10022285The advisor  presented Miss T with an application form which outlined the product details, and which  
stated: This  plan is required in connection with the mortgage. Miss T was required  to read and sign 
this document which referred to the terms and conditions.
In response to our investigators query, Santander said the phrase  on the application  form was only 
for the insurance companys information and did not mean the policy was compulsory. The crucial 
question, though, is whether this phrase was misleading and may have misled Miss T into thinking the 
policy was compulsory. In my view, it probably did, particularly if  as Miss T said  the advisor  gave 
her the impression  that taking out the policy would enhance her mortgage prospects given  her age 
etc. (or that she wouldnt get it without an insurance  policy).
As a result, I spoke to Miss Ts brother  to seek further information about  her recollections of the 
conversation with the advisor. He said she told him the advisor definitely  said that taking out the policy 
would increase her chances of getting the mortgage (which hed just recommended earlier  in the 
meeting); and that given her age and the shortened mortgage term,  she was unlikely to get approval  
without it.
He said that the additional  money was a lot to commit to given her work situation, particularly the 
uncertainty of the weekend overtime shifts she needed to do, but she was desperate for the mortgage 
so agreed to this.
I then considered whether  it was likely that the advisor  fully took into account  Miss Ts circumstances, 
needs and objectives when making the recommendation.
In the Customer  Profile the advisor records that Miss T had no existing plans  or pensions. But her 
brother said this was inaccurate and misleading as it failed to reflect the various plans, pensions and 
workplace benefits she had.
He said shed  been paying into her NHS  pension since 1992, and in the event  of her death her 
beneficiaries would have received 2.5 times her salary - £42,500 at the time of advice (a sum that 
would increase each year). She also had an untouched overseas health service pension which 
wouldve paid a sizeable  lump sum in the event of her death.
He said shed  also recently lent their parents £20,000 to tide them during a house purchase, and this 
money could  have been  easily reclaimed. All this meant that in the event of her death  there would be 
more than enough money to pay off the outstanding mortgage.
She also had NHS  workplace benefits which  included  six months full pay, six months half pay and 
further financial support during a long-term illness.  On top of this she had a Royal College  of Nursing-
linked life and critical illness policy with £100,000 of cover.
Given all the above, I do not believe the advisor  took sufficient care to ensure he fully understood 
Miss Ts true financial position, including  her existing  cover and pensions.  I am not saying that it 
would have been inappropriate to recommend bespoke mortgage  protection given these 
circumstances, but I he wouldve need to offer much more nuanced advice  if aware  of all the existing  
protection and pensions she had. 
This is particularly true given Miss T did not appear to have any dependents or anyone  who needed  to 
inherit the property  mortgage-free  in the event  of her death. In fact, the evidence  suggests that 
whoever her beneficiaries were, they were like to inherit far more money  that was needed  to pay off 
any outstanding mortgage.
Finally, the evidence  suggests Miss Ts finances were tight and she was fairly  reliant overtime shifts 
which were  not guaranteed  in order to meet the twin commits of the new mortgage and this policy.
Overall, the advisor  should  have made clear that this policy was optional and asked sufficient 
questions to acknowledge that Miss T had a substantial  mix of pensions/cover which  had the 
Ref: DRN10022286potential, at least,  to provide  sufficient  mortgage protection. I acknowledge that workplace  benefits 
cannot be guaranteed over the length of a mortgage but in this case I feel Miss T had sufficient other 
pensions and policies  to have made this recommendation at least  questionable.
Crucially, and on the balance of probabilities, I dont think Miss T would  have chosen to take on this 
significant additional financial commitment if the advisor  had fully explored all the issues above, and 
provided her with a fuller and fairer picture.
my provisional  decision
I therefore  currently intend  to uphold  this complaint  and instruct Santander UK Plc to refund the 
premiums Miss T has paid on this policy and add the appropriate  8% interest to each payment from 
the date it was made to the date of settlement  of this complaint.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1002228