K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection insurance  
(PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 1999. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Mr N disagreed with that view. He said that he didnt think  he would have been able to make 
a PPI claim because he was self-employed. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr N, but I havent  upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mr N told us that the cover was sold to him during  a meeting at the same  time that he 
applied for his credit card. I cant know what was said during that meeting. So to help me 
decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked  what Mr N told us about  it. And Ive also 
considered some paperwork thats  available from the time. I havent seen the exact 
application form that was completed. But Ive seen  a sample  copy of the application form. I 
think its likely that what was discussed  at the meeting probably reflects  the questions  on that 
application form. 
So the first thing Ive considered is whether Mr N would  have  known that PPI was optional 
and he didnt have  to buy it if he didnt want it. I can see from his questionnaire that Mr N told 
us that Lloyds told him that PPI was the best option for his circumstances. He also said that 
there was no discussion  about PPI as an optional insurance and that he didnt know he had 
cover. 
In looking at this case, Ive had to bear in mind that its difficult  to remember  what happened 
around 20 years ago, which is when this cover was sold. Its not entirely  clear  to me how 
Mr N would have remembered that he was told PPI was the best option for his 
circumstances if he also wasnt told he had the insurance.
Looking at the application form,  I can see that in order to take PPI out, Mr N would have had 
to tick a box. I think the wording on that sample  form is sufficiently clear  to show  that Mr N 
could have refused  this cover if he wanted  to. And so it follows  that I think  the person selling 
the policy would have also made  that clear to Mr N. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale because its a higher test for Lloyds to satisfy. If Mr N 
was advised to buy the cover, Lloyds  had to make sure it was suitable for his needs. To help 
me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And 
Ive also thought about what  Mr N told us about his personal circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN13143022I can see that Mr N said he didnt think the cover was a good fit for his needs  because he 
was self-employed.  I know  that self-employment  can be a barrier to making a successful 
claim for some PPI policies. But looking at terms and conditions for this particular  policy, 
self-employment wouldnt have made  it more  difficult  for Mr N to make a claim. 
If hed made  a claim on this policy, 10% of Mr Ns credit card balance would have been 
repaid for every month he was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months.  As I said above, 
Mr N was self-employed and he told us that he didnt have any sick pay arrangements  in 
place. He also told us that he didnt have  any other  means with which to pay his credit card if 
he was out of work. So, it looks as though the cover would have provided benefits  over and 
above those which Mr N already had in place. 
Mr N told us he was in good health  when  the PPI was sold. So, I dont think  he would have  
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent  seen 
anything else that would  have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he 
needed to. 
Overall, Im satisfied the cover probably  was suitable for him. Even so, Lloyds still had to 
give Mr N enough information about  the cover so he could decide  for himself whether it was 
right for him. That information had to be clear,  fair and not misleading.  
I accept its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr N everything it should have about the cover.  
But Ive set out above how PPI could have been helpful to him if he was out of work. I 
appreciate he doesnt  now remember, but I think Mr N chose to buy the PPI  so it looks  as 
though he wanted this type of cover  at the time. With all of this in mind, I dont think  more  or 
better information about the cover would  have put Mr N off buying PPI. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr N, but for the reasons  set out above,  I havent upheld his 
complaint. I dont need to tell Lloyds to take any further action in respect of it. 
Ref: DRN13143023my final decision  
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1314302