K821x#15complaint
Mr L on behalf of Mrs L has complained that Mrs Ls home insurance policy was unfairly 
voided (cancelled from the start as if it had never  existed) by Society of Lloyds and as a 
result her claim  was declined.
background
Mrs L took out her policy through a broker. The policy is designed to allow  an individual to 
carry out a small business from home. In 2017  she made a claim. After  investigating  the 
claim Lloyds  voided  the policy on the ground that Mrs L had wrongly led it to believe  that 
there were no employees working from her home and no visitors to the property in 
connection with the business. It returned the premiums shed paid from 2016 onwards.
Mrs L said she doesnt have any employees but does  use up to four self-employed 
contractors. She said they periodically visit her house to discuss  new assignments but work 
from their own homes. She didnt think this was in breach of the policy  terms.
Lloyds said that freelance or self-employed staff would be considered employees for the 
purpose of the policy  and the fact that they attend  meetings at the property  would be 
considered as undertaking work at the property. It thought Mrs L had been careless when 
providing information about this.
Mr L complained to this service. He said Mrs L was unhappy  that Lloyds has treated the 
self-employed consultants as employees.  She didnt  think it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
void the policy.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
When  a consumer buys an insurance policy, theyll be asked to provide  certain  information.  
In simple terms the insurer is trying  to assess  how likely  it is that the consumer will make  a 
claim. It can be a misrepresentation if an answer given is inaccurate or incomplete.  But the 
insurer will only be entitled to take action if its a qualifying  misrepresentation in accordance  
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA). The 
remedies available  to the insurer for a qualifying misrepresentation include voiding the 
policy.
A misrepresentation may be made by a broker if, as in this case, the broker was acting as 
agent for the consumer.  So Ill treat answers  given by the broker  as if theyd  been  given 
by Mrs L. If Mrs L feels that her broker failed to pass on relevant information  to Lloyds or 
to take reasonable care,  she should  complain to her broker. Thats not a matter I can look 
at as part of this complaint.
Under the terms of CIDRA, there are two main factors I need  to take into account in 
deciding whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation.  These are how clear and 
specific the insurers questions were and whether the consumer took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
When the policy was taken out on-line  by Mrs Ls broker, the following question  was asked:
Is the home used as a place of business?
Ref: DRN10921132The broker  knew that Mrs L was carrying out a business from her home.  So I would have 
expected him to click Yes in response. That would have brought  up a box for him to 
provide details. Lloyds has provided  a screenshot of the pop up guidance that appears 
on the quote if the question mark is clicked on next to the answer Yes. This pop up 
says:
Our policy provides cover  for up to £5,000 of office  equipment, including  £1,000  of stock
where the home has rooms used as an office  for business or professional purposes.  This is 
on the understanding that:-
1.  There  are no employees working at the home, except members  of the family.

4. No visitors to the home in connection  with the business or profession.
If there  are employees  working at the home,   or there are visitors at the home, please 
answer the question  as NO and provide full details, where applicable, including  number of 
employees, number  of weekly visitors and full details of the business or profession being 
carried out at the home.
It isnt clear whether the broker clicked on the question  mark or not but he did ring Lloyds to 
check what it considered  a place of business  to be. Ive listened to the call between Mrs Ls 
broker and Lloyds about this. The broker told Lloyds that Mrs L used two of her four 
bedrooms for her market  research business.  Lloyds asked whether the business was all 
clerical and the broker confirmed it was. In the light of this the broker answered No to the 
question. But actually  I dont think the business was all clerical.  I think in this context  all 
clerical implies dealing with documentation  and administrative  tasks. In the light of the 
information that Mrs L was only doing clerical  work  from home, I think  it was reasonable for 
Lloyds not to ask during  the phone call with the broker whether Mrs L had any visitors to the 
property in connection with her business.
In fact Mrs L sometimes  held business meetings on the premises  with her self-employed  
contractors. One of these  meetings  was taking place when Lloyds surveyor  visited  the 
property. So I dont  think the information the broker gave to Lloyds  was correct. That 
means I think Lloyds view that Mrs L failed to take reasonable  care was fair.
After the policy  had been taken out, Mrs Ls broker wrote to her saying:
You advised that you use two bedrooms for your business. [Lloyds] confirmed that as this 
is clerical work, they have  no issue with you doing  this.
Where a qualifying  misrepresentation is careless, the remedy  under CIDRA is to look at 
what the insurer would have done if the question had been answered correctly.  Sometimes  
that means an insurer would never have offered cover in the first place, and in that instance  
the policy can be avoided.  But looking at the acceptance criteria provided  by Lloyds I can 
see that in this case it would still have offered Mrs L the policy but would have  charged  a 
higher premium and applied  different  terms. Where this is the case,  CIDRA  allows  the 
insurer to settle the claim proportionately, allowing for the increased premium  that it would 
have charged.
So I think a fair outcome would be for Lloyds to deal with the claim on a proportionate basis  
where the proportion  of the correct  premium that was originally charged is the proportion of 
Ref: DRN10921133the claim it meets. This is subject to Mrs L paying  Lloyds the premiums  it has refunded. It 
can also retrospectively apply any different  terms it would have applied to the policy  and 
should consider  the claim subject to those amended terms. Any record  of the voidance 
should be removed  from all databases  and Mrs L should be compensated for the trouble 
and upset Lloyds  has caused her by it paying  her £200.
In response Lloyds has queried my proposed redress because  it said it wouldnt have 
offered a policy at all if it had known  about  the four self-employed  contractors. It said 
employment status can be different from a tax and accounting perspective  as to what it is 
from an employment law perspective.
Mrs Ls representative made a number of observations. In essence he wanted me to clarify 
a number of issues  in case Lloyds relied  on them later in order not to settle the claim  and 
also because he thought the case has potentially  significant  public  interest. He also 
mentioned that Mrs Ls had to pay more for a replacement policy because of her policy 
being voided by Lloyds.  
Lloyds thought that the £200  compensation  for trouble  and upset should  go towards any 
increase in premium  Mrs L had had to pay because of the voidance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is up to Lloyds to decide what risks it wants to cover. Its entitled to set its own 
underwriting criteria to determine when it will offer cover without restriction,  when  it will offer 
cover subject to certain conditions or exclusions, and when it will offer no cover  at all. In this 
case its underwriting guidance  says it will offer cover if there  are no more  than two 
employees working at the home  other than the policyholder. Lloyds has explained to us that 
if it had known that Mrs L had four self-employed contractors who occasionally worked from 
her home, it would have  treated them as employees for the purpose of the guidance and not 
offered a policy. 
I wouldnt normally interfere with an insurers interpretation of its own underwriting  guidance. 
But in this case I think the interpretation given  by Lloyds isnt consistent  with what  its 
guidance actually  says. There is nothing in the guidance to indicate  that for the purposes of 
the policy self-employed contractors who occasionally  visit the property should be treated as 
employees working at the property. Based on this Im not satisfied that Lloyds wouldnt have 
insured Mrs L if it had known about the self-employed contractors. That means  Lloyds 
hasnt demonstrated  it was entitled  to void the policy.  It follows  that I think  the policy  should  
be reinstated and Mrs Ls claim considered under the terms of the policy which  would have 
been offered if Lloyds  had been  told about the visitors to the property.
I appreciate that a person  may be an employee so far as employment law is concerned  but 
have a different  status for tax or accounting  purposes. Its not my role to give a definitive 
ruling on when  someone  is an employee or not - Im required  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  
The compensation which Im requiring Lloyds to pay is for the stress the voidance caused 
Mrs L and the inconvenience of having  to arrange alternative cover. It wasnt intended to 
compensation her for any financial loss she may have suffered. So since  Ive found  that 
Ref: DRN10921134Lloyds shouldnt have  voided the policy, I think it should  refund  any additional cost which 
Mrs L can show was due to the voidance with interest from the date of payment.
Other than in respect of the additional  premium  cost referred to above, having  carefully  
considered the submissions from both parties, I see no reason to change  my provisional  
findings which now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Society  of Lloyds  to:
reinstate Mrs Ls policy subject to the payment of all premiums that have been refunded;
retrospectively apply the different terms it would have applied  to the policy;
reconsider the claim on a proportionate basis and subject  to the amended policy terms 
and conditions  as stated above;
remove any record of the voidance it has made from any internal or external databases; 
pay £200 to Mrs L for the trouble and upset caused by having her policy  incorrectly 
voided; and
refund any additional premium which Mrs L has had to pay for a replacement  policy  due 
to the voidance (subject  to receiving satisfactory  evidence of the same) plus interest*  from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Society  of Lloyds 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs L, it should tell her 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a certificate  showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1092113