K820x#14complaint
Mr M, the director  of a limited company MPL,  is unhappy that Cynergy  Bank Limited 
increased the interest rate on its commercial loan. Hes also queried the interest  charged  
while the loan was in the associated current account and the increase  in the interest  rate on 
the overdraft. Mr M wants Cynergy  to refund the extra interest MPLs had to pay because of 
the rate rise and to also pay compensation.  
Cynergy Bank Limited was previously known as Bank of Cyprus UK Limited. For simplicity I 
will refer to it as Cynergy  in my decision. 
background
In early 2007, MPL took out a commercial loan with Cynergy.  The loan was for the 
equivalent of £1,100,000  50% of it was to be taken  in Japanese  Yen and 50% in Swiss 
Francs. It was secured  on various properties.  The loan was one of several foreign currency  
loans given to companies that Mr M was a director of. 
Towards the end of 2008, Cynergy was having discussions with Mr M about all these loans. 
This was because the equivalent pounds Sterling level of debt had increased  due to 
changes in exchange rates. Cynergy wanted MPL to convert this loan back  to Sterling. While 
this conversion was taking place, MPLs  loan was placed into an agreed temporary overdraft 
in the current  account  associated with this account.  
In December 2008, a new agreement was drawn up which Mr M and the company secretary 
signed on 2 January 2009.This  new loan was then used to repay  the temporary overdraft. 
The new Sterling agreement was at a higher interest  rate than the original foreign currency  
loan. 
In 2016 Cynergy  reviewed  the repricing of some of its overdrafts back in 2009. This didnt 
include the overdraft  account which ran alongside  MPLs loan. Following the review,  the 
bank carried out a remediation programme. In 2018  Cynergy wrote  to Mr M in his capacity 
as director of his various businesses.  Three  of these letters said there  wasnt enough 
evidence to show the 2009  repricing  of various  overdrafts had been formally agreed. 
Cynergy offered  refunds  on the affected  accounts.  None of these were MPL accounts.  
These letters prompted Mr M to contact  Cynergy to complain about the interest rate charged  
on the overdraft  while the loan amount was in it as well as the overdraft rate increase. He 
was also unhappy  about the rate increase  on the MPL loan when it was converted  into 
Sterling. 
Cynergy didnt uphold this complaint. The bank said that, following the conversion, it wasnt  
able to offer the same interest rate as the original agreement. It pointed out that MPL had 
accepted the new loans  terms and conditions back at the start of January 2009.  
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He brought the complaint to our service.  It was looked at by 
one of our adjudicators. She noted that although  we cant usually  look at events that 
happened more  than six years ago, it was only in the last three years that MPL would have 
realised it had cause  to complain. This meant we could look at the complaint. Cynergy also 
agreed we could look at it. 
Ref: DRN14178602The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She thought that: the terms of the original loan 
meant Cynergy could  convert it to Sterling;  MPL had agreed  to the terms and conditions of 
the new, converted loan; it was fair for the bank to charge  interest while the loan was 
positioned as a temporary overdraft in the current account; and, the MPL loan and 
associated overdraft didnt fall within the scope  of Cynergys remediation project. 
Mr M, on behalf  of MPL, accepted part of the adjudicators view. But Mr M said he didnt 
agree with her over the interest rate rise on the loan. He said he was given an ultimatum 
either to accept the new rate or to take the loan elsewhere. Mr M wants  the bank  to honour 
the margin set out in the original agreement. 
As MPL disagreed  with some of the adjudicators findings, this complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at MPLs original agreement signed in January  2007.  The interest rate was set at 
a margin of 1.5% above the three-month British Bankers Association fixing for Japanese  Yen 
(three-month Japanese Yen LIBOR  [London Inter-Bank Offered Rate]) and Swiss  Francs 
(three-month Swiss Franc  LIBOR).  
As above, the loan amount was for the equivalent of £1,100,000  split 50/50  between 
Japanese Yen and Swiss Francs. One of the terms of the agreement set out that if the value 
of Sterling fell by more than 10% against the Swiss Franc  or 15% against  the Japanese Yen 
compared to the value  of Sterling at drawdown, Cynergy could ask for additional security or 
require the loan to be converted into Sterling. During 2008, Sterling weakened on the 
currency markets and fell beneath these thresholds. 
Mr M says that the bank  never asked for any additional security  or asked for the existing  
security to be revalued. But Im satisfied  the terms and conditions  of the original loan allowed 
Cynergy to ask for additional  security or convert  it to Sterling (my emphasis). It could choose 
what option to take.  So, the bank was entitled  to require this loan to be converted. 
Ive also looked  at the new loan agreement signed  by MPL at the start of January 2009. The 
interest rate on this agreement could be fixed at an indicative rate of 5.73%. Alternatively,  it 
could be a variable  rate of 2.5%  above  a reference rate of the Sterling three-month LIBOR  or 
3%, whichever was the higher. Mr M chose the fixed rate. 
I can see from the loan offer that the interest  rate on the original loan was variable. When 
Cynergy converted the loan to Sterling it was under no obligation to offer the same  1.5%  
margin above the new reference  rate as it did above the three-month  LIBOR for Japanese 
Yen and Swiss Franc.  As it was a variable rate, the bank could choose to vary it. This is 
what it did. 
Mr M says he was given an ultimatum either  to accept  the new Sterling loan or to take his 
business elsewhere. But Im satisfied that Cynergys terms and conditions allowed  the 
original loan to be converted, and as above,  the interest rate to be varied. 
Ref: DRN14178603The bank was in discussions with Mr M for a number of weeks  over the conversion  of this 
loan. MPL accepted the terms and conditions of the new agreement.  As Cynergy seems to 
have pointed out to Mr M, if he wasnt happy with these terms and conditions,  instead of 
signing them, MPL was free to look at alternative  sources of finance.  But Mr M, for MPL, did 
sign the new agreement. 
In the circumstances here Im not satisfied that Cynergy did anything  wrong when it 
increased the interest rate on this loan facility. The bank is entitled to decide  the level of risk 
its prepared to take on its commercial lending, and to price its products accordingly.  
For completeness, I agree  with the adjudicators view that Cynergy was entitled  to charge 
interest while the loan was positioned as an overdraft in the current  account.  I can see the 
loan wasnt repriced during 2009,  so Im satisfied  it didnt  fall within the scope of the banks 
remediation project.  Also,  there was no associated  overdraft  in use on this account  during 
the period under review.  So this didnt fall within the remediation project either. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
MPL, to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2020.  
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1417860