K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains about the interest rate Santander  UK Plc offered her when she applied  for 
a loan. Mrs M also complains about  they way Santander handled her loan application. 
Background
On 16 February 2019 Mrs M applied  for a loan online with Santander.  Mrs M says she 
applied for a loan with a 3% interest  rate but when the loan documents came through she 
was offered an interest rate of 8.9%.   
Mrs M called  Santander to complain and said she hadnt been given notice that the rate she 
applied for had gone up. During the call Mrs M checked whether shed been enrolled for the 
e-signature service and was told she wasnt. Santander said Mrs M was free to take a loan 
elsewhere if she was able to find a better rate but that the 8.9%  interest rate it had offered 
couldnt be appealed. Santander  agreed to send  Mrs Ms loan agreements out to her by 
post. 
Santander issued  its final response on 28 February 2019 but didnt uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. Santander  said interest rates ranged between 3% and 24.9%  and were  based on 
a range of factors and its credit scoring  system. 
Mrs M referred  her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator.  The 
investigator thought  Santander had dealt with Mrs Ms complaint fairly  and didnt ask it to 
take any further action.  Mrs M asked  to appeal so her complaint has been  passed to me to 
make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Ms point and that she feels her circumstances should have led Santander 
to offer her an interest rate of 3%. But its up to Santander to decide  what  interest rates  it 
offers customers by assessing  their loan applications. Santanders told us it uses information 
from an applicants credit file as well as information provided in the application as the basis  
for its loan application.  The information  obtained  is subject to credit scoring and an 
assessment at which point an interest rate decision is made.  In this case, Santander was 
willing to offer Mrs M an interest rate of 8.9%. I note everything Mrs M says about her 
circumstances, but Santander  is free to decide  how it assesses applications and what 
interest rates its willing to offer. 
In addition, Ive reviewed the application  process but theres nothing to show  Mrs M was told 
the 3% rate was guaranteed. The key facts document and supporting information Ive seen 
all shows the interest  rate would be between 3% and 24.9% and subject to assessment. I 
havent found anything to show Santander  misled Mrs M. 
Mrs M has raised concerns  that she wasnt selected for the e-signature facility. But there 
was nothing in Mrs Ms loan application  or the supporting information she was given that 
said she would be offered that facility. Santander  has recently told us that at the time of 
Ref: DRN19409272Mrs Ms application it wasnt offering the e-signature facility due to systems issues.  I havent  
found that Mrs M has been treated  unfairly by being  sent a copy  of her loan documentation 
instead of being able to accept it online.  
Santander has sent in systems notes that indicate  it printed the loan documents and posted  
them to Mrs M on 18 February 2019.  I understand Mrs M didnt receive  them, but Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen that Santander posted  them as promised. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M but Santander has confirmed the interest rate she was offered 
was based on her application  and correct. I cant tell Santander how to assess  loans  or what  
interest rates it should offer and I havent found  any evidence of a mistake. Santander  has 
told us it wasnt offering the e-signature facility at the time of Mrs Ms application. Santander 
has sent in evidence to show it posted the loan documents to Mrs M. As I havent found  any 
evidence of a mistake by Santander Im not upholding this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1940927