K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with Allianz  Insurance Plcs handling of his insurance  claim, under his 
buildings insurance  policy. 
When I refer to Allianz, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives. 
background
Mr M reported a claim to Allianz in March 2018. He had a FlexiLet  Insurance  policy  for his 
personal portfolio  of houses and one of his houses  had been damaged  by the tenants using 
the house as a cannabis  farm. Mr M said that considerable damage had been caused.
Allianz immediately  declined the claim. Mr Ms policy had an illegal activities  exclusion 
which didnt cover any loss or damage caused  as a result of the house  being used for an 
illegal activity.
A month or so later Mr M got back in touch  with Allianz as he felt the damage wasnt  caused 
entirely by the cannabis  farm, and some of it was caused maliciously by the tenants.  At this 
stage Allianz agreed to send an expert  to Mr Ms house, but this appointment was cancelled 
once Mr M had told Allianz that hed already cleared the damage and started the repairs.  
Instead, Allianz told Mr M to send  in any photos  he had taken and the invoices for the 
damage Mr M felt was caused  maliciously.
Mr M did this, but Allianz continued to decline the claim. They  didnt think the photos showed 
the damage had been caused  maliciously. They said that the damage in the photos showed  
a lack of maintenance by the tenants,  which wasnt covered by Mr Ms policy. Mr M wasnt 
happy with this and logged a complaint  with Allianz. He maintained that the damage  had 
been caused maliciously before the tenants  left. 
Allianz issued a final response  letter  to Mr M in June 2018.  They  said that Mr M wasnt 
covered for malicious damage caused  by tenants or people lawfully  living in the house. 
Therefore, the damage wasnt covered by the policy.  Mr M disputed this and sent his 
insurance schedule  to Allianz.  This showed that he had increased  his policy  cover  to include 
malicious damage caused by tenants or people lawfully living in the house. Because  of this, 
Allianz said they would re-consider aspects of Mr Ms claim.  They  asked him again  to send 
in any photos  and invoices he had, as by this stage hed already arranged  for repairs  to be 
completed at the house. 
Having received the photos and invoices, and asked their expert for an opinion,  Allianz  
agreed to cover some aspects of the damage  caused. Initially, they agreed to cover the cost 
to replace three kitchen unit doors, a damaged rear window  and door and a hole drilled into 
one of the radiators. They  paid Mr M £960. Subsequently, Allianz also paid Mr M a further 
£190 to cover the cost of a skip to remove the damaged  items  covered by the policy.
But they didnt  agree to pay for the rest of the damage for a couple of reasons. They  didnt 
agree to the floor coverings as Mr M didnt have  contents cover  on his policy.  They didnt 
agree to the rubbish disposal, stud walls and plastering, the decoration to the walls, skirting 
and architraves, the roof and chimney  work  or the bathroom and kitchen fittings. Allianz  said 
that the damage to these areas had been caused by the illegal activity of the tenants  or a 
lack of maintenance by them. Neither  of which were covered by Mr Ms policy.
Ref: DRN16901042Mr M didnt  accept Allianzs decision and wanted to continue with his complaint. He felt that 
he was entitled  to more for the damage caused.  Allianz asked their expert for an opinion 
again. He said that it was almost impossible to adequately validate the claim as the damage 
had been cleared and replaced. But he told Allianz  that if they wanted to increase their offer, 
he would  suggest  a further £8,903.80. This amount included,  but wasnt  limited to, work 
completed to redecorate,  removal of the old kitchen and the replacement and re-fit of the 
new kitchen, work  to re-plaster  any water damaged walls, replacement  of three internal 
doors and waste removal.  
Allianz didnt offer Mr M any more to settle  the claim. They  said that there wasnt  enough  
evidence to show the damage  had been  caused  maliciously and should  be covered by       
Mr Ms policy. This was confirmed to Mr M by phone and in another  final response letter, in 
September 2018. Mr M didnt agree. He said his claim had been  prejudiced by Allianzs 
delay in accepting  it, and hed had no choice but to get the work  done.
As Mr M remained  unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. Whilst she sympathised with Mr Ms situation, because  the tenants  had caused  
significant damage, she didnt think Allianz  should  pay more  to settle the claim.  She felt the 
settlement amount would  have been the same if Allianz had accepted  the claim when they 
were first notified. As Mr M hadnt  been  prejudiced by Allianzs  initial rejection of the claim, 
she didnt ask Allianz to do anything more.
As Mr M didnt accept this, its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking Allianz 
to do anything more.  Ill explain  why.
Mr M accepts that his policy doesnt cover him for any damage  caused by an illegal  activity.  
And, even  though his total repairs for the house cost approximately  £30,000, he isnt asking 
for the total amount to be reimbursed. I need to decide if hes covered to claim  for anything 
else.
Mr Ms policy does  cover  him for malicious  damage  caused by tenants or people lawfully  at 
the house. So, what I must decide  is whether Allianzs delay in accepting the claim has 
prejudiced Mr Ms position.  In this case, I dont  think it has.
Mr M has said that Allianz would have  been able to see the extent of the damage  had they 
accepted the claim and sent their expert immediately. And the delay has caused him to lose 
out financially  as he hasnt been able to substantiate the amount of damage caused  by the 
tenants. But I dont  agree with Mr M here. 
He has provided  photos  of the damage, and the date of the photos is from just before he 
reported the claim to Allianz. So, Im satisfied they give a good indication  of what  the 
damage was and the overall condition of the house  at the time. Had Allianz  accepted the 
claim from the start,  their expert would have  seen the house  in the same condition as the 
photos show it to be in. And Im satisfied that they would have come to the same conclusion  
as they did when the claim was eventually accepted. The photos show  the house in overall 
poor condition  and its clear that it hasnt been well maintained by the tenants during their 
stay. 
Ref: DRN16901043Mr M has also said that he had to replace all the internal doors  as they had been  damaged. 
But he hasnt provided any evidence to confirm the doors had been damaged and needed 
replacing. There arent any photos to support this, so I think  Allianz acted  reasonably by 
declining this part of the claim too.
Allianz have paid Mr M for three  kitchen  unit doors,  a broken rear window and door and the 
replacement of one radiator which had a hole drilled or put through  it. Theyve also paid for 
the hire of a skip to remove the debris  from the damage that Allianz feel was caused 
maliciously. I think thats fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above I wont be asking Allianz  Insurance Plc to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1690104