K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss M bought the policy in 1999 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. She applied 
for the credit card and PPI policy through the post.  
At the time,  Miss M was employed  as a sales advisor. She has told us she was entitled  to a 
death in service payment and redundancy pay but she didnt have  any other means  of 
repaying her credit  card should she be unable to work.  I have seen a copy  of a letter  Miss M 
sent to Barclays when she made her complaint and on this document she has said she was 
entitled to sick pay for 13 weeks.  Miss M has said she suffered from a broken bone over 16 
years before the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Miss Ms credit  card balance  in the 
event of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. If a claim was made 
under the life section of the policy, cover was provided to repay the outstanding  balance on 
the account. At the time,  it cost 70p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Barclays has told us that the credit  card account  closed in 2004.
Miss Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ms representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Miss M about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss M and 
the impact they would have had on her chances  of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN15581402The information Miss M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN15581403I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ms case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Miss M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss M, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss M and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss M know she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ref: DRN15581404Ive been given a copy of the credit card application completed at the time and I can see that 
this includes a section  about PPI. In this section it has two options to tick  one to accept to 
take out the cover and the other  to decline  to take out the PPI. On Miss Ms form I can see 
that the yes box has been ticked to confirm  that the cover was required.  I havent seen 
anything on the form to suggest  her application  would be more successful if she took out PPI 
or that it was compulsory  to the agreement. So if Miss M didnt want to take out the PPI she 
could have ticked the no box. Miss M has signed  the overall application which  suggests  she 
agreed with everything  that had been  entered.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss M knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Miss M hasnt told us if she received 
advice or not. Looking  at what Barclays says happened when it sold Miss M the PPI, I dont 
think that it did provide  advice. 
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss M. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Miss M to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Barclays has provided us with Miss Ms application  form  showing that PPI had been 
selected. Due to the time that has passed, Barclays has been unable  to provide a copy  of 
the actual policy wording which it says would have  been issued to Miss M. But I have seen a 
document which was from some  time before the date of the sale and I think  it is more likely 
than not - on a balance  of probabilities - that the terms  are the same as, or very similar  to 
those that applied to Miss Ms policy. There are no significant differences  in the terms and 
conditions set out in this document  and a policy document from some time after the date of 
the sale.
Looking at the information provided to Miss M at the time, I dont think Barclays  gave Miss M 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against unemployment, accident, sickness and death.  It also informed 
Miss M that the premiums would be debited from the account.
The information provided would have given Miss M a broad sense of what the policy 
covered. But it was Barclays responsibility to draw to Miss Ms attention the important 
information  i.e. the key information  about  the nature  of the cover and any significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Miss M, including the need to maintain  premiums during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Barclays  
Ref: DRN15581405adequately drew to her attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Barclays gave Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ms representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss M has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Miss M? To what extent did Miss M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not she 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Barclays done things properly. 
Miss M says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss M had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
Ref: DRN15581406made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss M thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss M has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss M ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance   
this was set out on the application form. But, I accept that Barclays  didnt  make  clear the on-
going cost information. So while Miss M didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought  
from the information she based her decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Miss M knew about or had asked about or received  advice, treatment or 
counselling for from any doctor during  the 12 months immediately before the start 
date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy excluded claims for unemployment  unless  Miss M had been in continuous  
employment for 12 months prior to the unemployment; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss M be unable  
to do her own job, any similar  job or any paid work which  her experience,  education 
or training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss M from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss M was in permanent 
employment. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Ive noted  that Miss M suffered from 
a broken bone many years before taking the policy but it doesnt  appear that she had any 
ongoing issues following her treatment. So I dont think she would have expected  to have to 
take time off work for this previous injury and need  to make a claim. And I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Miss M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
The policy excluded claims for unemployment  if Miss M hadnt  been in continuous 
employment for 12 months prior to the unemployment leading to the claim. But I dont think 
Ref: DRN15581407this would have  affected Miss Ms decision to take out the policy.  I say this because  she had 
been employed continuously  with the same  employer  for a year prior to taking out this policy.  
So I dont  think Miss M would have thought it likely that she would have a break in her 
employment which would have meant  she would  be unable  to make a claim.
If Miss M had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do her job, any 
similar job or paid work  which, in the insurers  view,  her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do, it might have  played into her thinking about what she would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  her pause for thought  although its possible she 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Miss M was unable (through disability) to 
carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar  
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss M would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her potential  employment benefits. And in those circumstances 
I consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Miss Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss M would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN15581408That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Miss M compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss M thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclays statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Miss M, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1999 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ms representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find Barclays negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss M and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss M in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1558140