K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he got using  a hire purchase  agreement from 
Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway). 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I did not propose  to 
uphold the complaint.
I invited Mr P and Secure Trust to let me have  any final comments and evidence before 
making my final decision. Mr P didnt accept my provisional decision and he didnt add any 
further comments for me to consider. Secure Trust said they had no further  comments  to 
add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither party has made any further  comments for me to consider. So, I find no grounds on 
which to depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in more detail in my provisional decision, my final 
decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15715512copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he got using  a hire purchase agreement from Secure Trust 
Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway).  
background
In January 2018, Mr P got a car under a hire purchase agreement with Secure Trust. The dealership, 
where Mr P got the vehicle, used a broker to put Mr P in contact with Secure  Trust. There  were  some 
initial delays with the dealership, which  meant he eventually took the car home  a week after the 
agreement had started.
Within a few days, Mr P noticed that the battery warning light was lit on the cars dashboard. He also 
noticed that the engine was making a knocking sound, the clutch  was squeaky and the engine lost 
power when it was driven over 70 mph. Mr P told the dealership about the concerns he had and they 
arranged for an MOT test to be carried  out. 
The car passed the MOT test and although no faults were found, the test did acknowledge a ticking 
noise coming from the engine. Mr P disagreed with the results  of the MOT test and arranged for a 
garage local to him to inspect the car. The garage told Mr P that there were  some parts which  needed 
to be replaced and that there was a knocking sound coming from the engine.
Mr P complained to Secure Trust and told them about the garages report. He also told them he 
wanted to reject the car because hed lost faith in it. Secure  Trust  organised for an independent  
inspection to be carried out on the car in early March  2018. The inspection  found  no faults with the 
vehicle during a test drive  and said the noise  from the engine was expected in light of the age of the 
car and its mileage.
In their final response to Mr Ps complaint, Secure Trust said that he couldnt  reject the vehicle 
because they couldnt find faults with it. Mr P disagreed and brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps case and Secure Trust agreed pay for another  independent 
inspection. In July 2018 another garage, local to Mr P, confirmed  there was engine  noise (and 
explained the possible source of this), a low battery and some worn  brake discs. The investigator 
concluded that she agreed with Secure Trust, in that the issues identified with the car are down to 
wear and tear, rather than the car being  of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator and said the reports hes had done show that the car is faulty.  As 
things couldnt be resolved,  the case has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, Im intending to reach the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, but for slightly different reasons.  Ill explain why.
Its been  over a year since  Mr P brought this case to us and Im aware of the difficulties hes had 
during this time. I sympathise with the circumstances  hes told us about and I can see and appreciate  
the effort  hes made  to provide evidence for his case.
the condition of the car when Mr P got it
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  says that goods will be considered  of satisfactory quality 
where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking  into 
consideration the description  of the goods, the price paid and any other relevant  circumstances. In 
Ref: DRN15715513complaints about the quality of a car, circumstances  around the age of the vehicle, mileage  at the 
time of the sale and the cars history needs to be taken into account.
In this case, Mr P bought a used car that was first registered in 2011.  Because  the car was seven 
years old when Mr P got it and it had been  driven for around  43,000 miles,  I think a reasonable 
person would  have different expectations of it compared to a brand new car. 
The vehicles MOT  test history shows that on the one occasion  where it has failed, the reasons  were  
not because of a major fault. The purchase  price  for the vehicle was £5,704 and I dont think this price 
was exceptionally different from the same models with similar mileage  available at the time. So, I think  
the price Mr P paid was an accurate reflection  of the condition of the car. 
I think  the purchase price,  the age of the vehicle,  its mileage and what  we know about its history 
means that a reasonable person may have expected the car to show some signs of wear and tear at 
the point of sale.  So, I think its reasonable that he could have expected to have to replace some of 
the parts  of the car at some point. 
But, the faults  Mr P has complained about are more than wear and tear. He says that the car has 
major faults. So, Ive considered  if the faults he told Secure Trust about  have been found  with his car.  
The first independent  inspection of the car and the MOT tests
Mr Ps car has passed three MOT tests since the beginning of August 2017. During  this time, the car 
has covered  over seven thousand miles  and there arent any advisory notes  attached  to any of the 
MOT tests. A report by an independent vehicle  inspection company  was organised  by Secure Trust  to 
look into the problems  which Mr P had told them about. The report said that engine noise was 
present, but that it was expected  given  the age and mileage of Mr Ps car. The report  didnt find any of 
the other concerns  Mr P had identified, so I dont think this inspection report or the previous  MOT 
tests suggested that the car had major  faults.
The two assessments of the car which  were  arranged  by Mr P.
Mr P arranged for two garages, local to where  he lives, to look at his car and each  provided their 
opinion about the problems he had told Secure Trust about. The first report  was carried out a month 
after Mr P got the car and after hed driven  it for just over one thousand miles. The garage found a 
ticking noise coming from the engine and that the battery warning light was lit on the dashboard. 
However, the garage didnt find the faults with the battery or the engine.  So, I dont think  that this 
report shows the major problems which Mr P has complained about.
The second  garage  carried out their inspection three weeks later and after Mr P had driven the car 
around another 300 miles. This report confirmed  the existence  of the engine noise which Mr P had 
noticed, that several warning  lights were  lit on the dashboard and that the brake  pads and cooling 
fans needed to be replaced. The second garage said that the engine would need  to be stripped to find 
out the exact  problem.  
I accept that the second  garages report confirms some  of Mr Ps concerns with the car. But, the 
report doesnt  say if those concerns mean that there is a major issue with the engine.  So, I think the 
second garages  report  is inconclusive,  as aside from the wear and tear of the brakes  and the cooling 
fans, it says further investigation of the engine  would be necessary.
The second  independent  inspection of the car
Whilst our investigator was looking into Mr Ps case, Secure Trust agreed to pay for a second 
independent inspection of the car. This report was organised nearly six months after Mr P got the car 
and when hed driven it for around three thousand miles.  This report says that there are signs of wear 
and tear with the front brake discs and that the dashboard warning lights point towards  low battery 
Ref: DRN15715514voltage. The second report also says that there is engine  noise possibly coming from the camshaft 
variable unit. 
Mr P has sent us video footage of the faults showing on the dashboard  from around the same time as 
the second inspection. Taking Mr Ps footage and what the second independent inspection  says into 
consideration, I think that the warning lights indicate that replacing the cars battery may help. I think 
that given the age and mileage of the car, a reasonable person could expect  to replace the battery. 
So, I think this report suggests that the problems  with the car are down to wear  and tear. I also think 
that the second  independent  inspection isnt conclusive  in confirming a major fault with the cars 
engine. So, I dont think this report leads  Mr P to any certainty that there is a serious issue with the 
car.
what I think all the different reports show
I have taken into consideration the seven different inspections and tests on the car, the video footage  
and all the information Mr P and Secure Trust have sent to us. In all the circumstances, I dont think 
the major problems Mr P has told us about have been replicated. 
Both of the independent inspection  reports confirm  that there is engine noise. Whilst one report says 
that this is common  for a car like Mr Ps, the other report says more investigation is necessary. The 
independent reports dont say that there is a major fault with the car and I think  the only conclusive 
evidence we have shows that some of the brake discs and the battery  will need to be changed. 
I think  a reasonable person  would expect to change parts like brake  discs  and a cars battery  given 
the age and usage of Mr Ps car when he got it. So, I consider the car of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of sale.  In all the circumstances, I dont  think Secure Trust  need to allow  Mr P to reject the 
vehicle.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mr P 
or Secure Trust  Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway) by 31 August 2019,  my provisional decision is that I 
dont intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1571551