K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss W says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Miss W didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this as it was some  
time ago.
I say this because  Bank  of Scotland has provided  us with a copy  of the credit application 
form completed at the time. And on this I can see that the PPI was presented as an optional 
product and its been selected. Another  optional product hasnt been selected.  And Miss W 
has signed this form, so I think on the balance of probabilities Miss W knew  she was taking 
out PPI and chose  to do so.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss W so it to ensure this was suitable for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Miss W has said she had good sick pay through her employment. But the PPI wouldve paid 
out alongside any sick pay she wouldve received. And it would have also covered her if she 
lost her job.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said but for the reasons explained  I dont think the 
PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint and make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Ref: DRN14732812Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1473281