K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Phoenix Life Limited  wrongly  recommended a life and critical illness  
policy in 1990.  
background
His representative said the advisor failed  to consider the potential long term affordability of 
the plan or other more suitable alternatives. He also didnt take into account the risk Mr H 
was prepared to accept with his money.
An adjudicator at this service  didnt feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
He noted that Mr H was married with a young  child and ran his own business,  something 
which indicated that a life and critical illness policy was a not inappropriate recommendation. 
He said it would have  been difficult if not impossible for the advisor to assess  the likely long-
term affordability of the plan, particularly after retirement. But he didnt think that meant  the 
recommendation was necessarily unsuitable.
Overall, he said that there was understandably very limited information about  the sale given 
the passage of time and the limited  regulations  in place  at the time. He therefore couldnt  be 
sure whether  issues such as investment risk or other options had been discussed.
Mr Hs representative did not agree,  and said:
The cost of premiums was significant  and there  is no record as to whether the 
advisor recorded Mr Hs financial position at the time, and it is important to note that 
he surrendered  this plan within a few years
Given the business also sold Mr H two savings plans around  this time his total 
monthly outlay amounted to £345 so affordability  was clearly going to be an issue
Given Mr H was self-employed a term assurance  policy  would have been more 
suitable as the premiums would  not have been  reviewable - so avoiding the risk of 
unknowable rises after the first 10 years
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator for the same reasons.
This policy appears to have been,  in principle,  a reasonable recommendation, given Mr Hs 
declared situation. Whether it best reflected Mr Hs objectives or whether another  
recommendation might have been  more suitable is something I dont feel able to safely 
assess given there  is very little paperwork about this sale or any other  corroborating  
evidence. 
As this sale took place  nearly 30 years ago, I dont think one can solely  rely on Mr Hs 
recollections as to what was and what  wasnt discussed - including  whether his financial 
position was explored or his likely ability to pay the premiums going forward. I dont believe 
that the mere  fact he cancelled the policy within a few years is sufficient to say it proved 
unaffordable.
Ref: DRN13408742I therefore dont  believe there is sufficient evidence  to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1340874