K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy two debit cards  for Mrs T were  sent to their previous address by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
When Mrs Ts cards didnt  arrive  both Mr and Mrs T called the bank to complain and two 
separate complaints were set up. Barclays accepted to both of them  it had made an error.  It 
confirmed the address  hadnt been changed manually and therefore concluded the error 
must have  been  caused by a system error. It paid £1,500 in compensation to Mr Ts sole 
account. It offered  Mrs T £500.
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy with the response  as they are worried about  fraud  and the 
impact on their credit rating. They  also wanted  to understand how the error happened  and 
whether anything else was sent to their old address.
Barclays said it had not identified any other  correspondence that had been sent to the wrong 
address. Barclays hadnt identified  any threats  to Mr and Mrs Ts account. However it did say 
if they noticed any unusual spending  or activity on their account, they could report this to it 
and it could look into this for them. Barclays could provide  no other explanation other  than 
there was a system error.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he felt the compensation paid 
(£1,500) and the additional  compensation offered (£500)  was fair.
Mr and Mrs T felt that Mrs T should  receive  the same  level of compensation as Mr T. They 
also wanted the bank to change their account number to provide reassurance  from fraud  
going forward.
my first provisional decision
In my first provisional decision  I said I could  understand  Mr and Mrs Ts concern over 
Mrs Ts cards twice  being sent to their old address. Especially as being told the mistake  was 
due to an unidentified system error didnt particularly reassure them.  I asked the bank if it 
could do anything more  to reassure them and it said, if Mr and Mrs T request it, then it could 
switch their account over to a new account.
The bank had paid Mr T £1,500 and offered Mrs T £500 for the error. I did find it odd that the 
bank paid Mr T more than it offered Mrs T and that it didnt  make  the payment to their joint 
account especially  as it was Mrs Ts cards that were sent to the wrong  address. But I thought 
overall what it had paid and offered was fair so I didnt intend to order it to pay anymore. 
Subject to the comments of both parties  I intended  to order  that Barclays:
pay Mr and Mrs T £500;  and
following Mr and Mrs T confirming to the bank they want  to switch  their account to a 
new account with a new account  number,  to do so.
Ref: DRN16702562responses to my first provisional decision
Barclays clarified that the option to switch  their account to a new account with a new account 
number was an option available to all customers and not something it was offering to 
Mr and Mrs T because  of its error.  It explained  the process of switching further. This includes 
Mr and Mrs T attending a branch. It confirmed the £500 it offered to Mrs T was still available.  
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy they would  have to attend a branch to get their account 
changed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my second  provisional decision
The reason  I issued a provisional decision was because Barclays  had offered to do 
something that it hadnt previously offered to do before Mr and Mrs T came to this service. 
This meant the complaint  changed from one where the complaint wasnt upheld  to one 
where it was.
Following Barclays explanation that the option  to switch their account  to a new account with 
a new account  number was an option available to all customers  and not something  it was 
offering to Mr and Mrs T because  of its error  I didnt  think  it was necessary for me to order  
that this be done.  And, as I thought the compensation  it had paid and offered for its error 
was fair, I thought  by the time Mr and Mrs T had come to this service  Barclays had done 
enough in response to their complaint. Therefore I no longer intended to uphold their 
complaint.
I noted that Mr and Mrs T werent  happy that they have to attend a branch to switch to a new 
account number.  I understood this but I didnt think it was unreasonable  of the bank  to follow  
its processes here.
As Barclays had said the offer of £500 was still open  to Mr and Mrs T I left it to them  to 
decide whether  to accept it or not.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Both Barclays and Mr and Mrs T accepted my second provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given Barclays and Mr and Mrs T accepted my second provisional decision I see no reason 
to depart from it and confirm it here.
Ref: DRN16702563my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1670256