K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) refused to open a savings account  for 
her. She believes the bank is racial profiling   thats why it declined the application. So she 
wants compensation for the distress  the matter has caused.
background
Briefly:
Ms S applied for a savings account with BOI  the application  and a cheque were  presented  
to a branch for processing. Because of Ms S age a family  members  details were included 
on the application  they acted as a representative  to confirm Ms S identity. And this was in 
line with the requirements for opening the account.
BOI processed the application and then wrote to Ms S saying that it wasnt going  to open an 
account for her. It said this was because following its account opening checks  and analysis 
of the information provided using credit reference agency data and fraud prevention  
databases, it had decided not to open  the account.
Ms S complained that BOI was racially  profiling and this was the reason  it hadnt opened the 
account. Ms S said its refusal to open an account for her is against  her human rights and 
she wants compensation for the distress  the matter has caused.
In summary  BOI said it followed  its usual  account  opening procedures  including using the 
information provided by credit reference  agencies and fraud  prevention databases. It said it 
was because of the information returned  that it declined  the account.  It denies discriminating 
against Ms S and said it can refuse  to do business with a customer  as set out in the account 
terms and conditions.
Ms S family member subsequently  provided a letter from a fraud prevention  agency,  which  
said that no adverse  information is held against  them at the address in question. The letter  is 
dated about a month  after BOI processed  the savings account application.
The adjudicator thought  BOI hadnt done  things properly because  of the letter  Ms S family  
member had produced   albeit they acknowledged BOI can chose who they have as 
customers. They recommended BOI pay Ms S £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
BOI disagreed  it said it had done nothing  wrong and has not acted unfairly in declining  Ms 
S account application.
I issued my provisional decision of December 2019.  Here I said I was likely to reach a 
different conclusion to the adjudicator and not uphold the complaint. I said I didnt  think BOI 
had done anything wrong and I gave the following reasons for arriving  at this conclusion:
Firstly, I said that like most other  commercial  organisations, banks and building 
societies are under no obligation  to do business or continue doing  business with 
someone if they do not consider  it appropriate to do so. But I said they should not 
decide to close  an account (or decline to open  an account) for an improper reason  
for instance, because  of unfair  bias or unlawful discrimination.
Ref: DRN10802422I thought BOI had shown that it carried out its normal account opening procedures  
when it processed Ms S account  application  including using the services of third-
party fraud prevention  and credit reference  agencies. In deciding  not to open Ms S 
account based on the information held by these  agencies,  I didnt  think  BOI had 
acted unfairly.
Id seen nothing  to suggest  BOI had registered  any adverse information about  Ms S  
it simply used  existing  recorded data provided by the third-parties I referred to above.
I didnt think there  was evidence that BOI had decided not to open Ms S account  for 
an improper reason  including unfair  bias.
I acknowledged that Ms S family member had produced a letter from one of the 
third-party data companies, which said there was no adverse  information held at the 
address in question. But I said that, BOI had provided enough evidence to show that 
there was information that it had used to base its decision on at the time. I reminded 
Ms S that she could  submit a fresh application where Id expect BOI to process  it 
afresh.
In response to my provisional decision BOI said it had nothing further to add.
Ms S representative said on her behalf  that she accepted the decision; albeit she still 
maintains theres  been bias.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and on the basis that neither party has given me anything  new to consider,  I 
see no reason to depart from my reasoning and conclusions as set out in my provisional 
decision and as Ive summarised above.  
While Ms S has repeated  her belief that BOI acted  with bias, as I said in my provisional 
decision, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that BOI declined Ms S account  application  for 
an improper reason.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1080242