K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy with Sunlife Limited  as despite him asking them not to write to him, they 
have continued  to do so.
background
Mr D has a policy with Sunlife. Hes been paying into it each month  with the intention  of it 
meeting the costs of his funeral after he passes away.  
But in the last couple of years,  Mr D has felt harassed by various types of letter Sunlife have 
sent to him. Mr D says hes worked  out what  the cost of his funeral ought to be, and that hes 
comfortable that his plan will meet his needs. But he feels  that Sunlife have continually 
suggested he ought to be increasing  his cover  and hes felt pressurised  by this. 
Mr D complained to Sunlife in 2017  about  the promotional and marketing material  he was 
receiving, and Sunlife agreed  to stop sending it. But Mr D was also unhappy about receiving 
his annual statement   which included what he also felt to be an element  of marketing  and 
contacted Sunlife about this in April 2018. 
Last summer, Sunlife agreed to stop communicating with Mr D  but for anything they are 
legally obliged to let him know about. They also agreed to stop sending  Mr Ds annual  
statement as hed pointed  out that it was also suggesting he review  his plan too. 
However, this January  Mr D had another letter about his plan. So he made another 
complaint. Sunlife looked into what had happened   they apologised and sent Mr D £50 in 
vouchers for high street stores. They  also confirmed  theyd done what  they needed  to do to 
ensure he didnt get any more letters  again,  but for anything  they were  legally obliged to 
send. 
Mr D was unhappy with this  he returned  the vouchers  and got in touch with us instead. 
One of our adjudicators had a look at what had happened but he didnt think Sunlife needed  
to do anything more.  He acknowledged  a mistake had been made, but thought  the voucher 
was a reasonable offer. 
Mr D remained  unhappy  he said hed made plans for his funeral and didnt need to invest  
more as Sunlife  continued to suggest. And that generally speaking, he felt worse  off having 
taken his plan out as hell end up paying  more in than it will ultimately pay out. So his case  
was passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, I will say that I understand Mr Ds frustration and the fact that emotions will certainly  
be running high given the sensitive reasons  for why this plan is in place. So I do recognise  
his strength of feeling here.  
Having considered things carefully, I agree with Mr D in that Sunlifes service  fell short of 
what Id expect to see. I recognise that Mr D began complaining  about  this in 2017,  and 
complained again last year. And at that point  in May 2018   Sunlife internally instructed no 
Ref: DRN17708222further mail to be sent, including  annual statements. However, Mr D was contacted again 
this January. I dont  think Sunlifes offer to apologise  for that oversight was sufficient.  
Given the duration Mr D has been complaining about this, the assurances made last 
summer and the fact that this plan is for his funeral   something which hes explained in 
detail and rather emotively, I suggested Sunlife pay him £200 to apologise. I felt this was a 
fairer sum to address not only the error made,  but the impact  this has had on Mr D, given  his 
circumstances. Sunlife have agreed to do this. 
I have also carefully considered excerpts  of the internal communication  that Sunlife have 
shared with us  I can see from this that Mr Ds account has now been set to ensure he 
doesnt receive any further post from Sunlife, apart from anything they are legally obliged  to 
send. This is something they call full suppression  so from what I have seen, it does look 
as though they have  put an end to further mailings.  
I am therefore satisfied  that both an apology of £200  and Sunlifes full suppression  are a 
reasonable way to settle this complaint. I appreciate Mr Ds concerns havent been  
motivated by compensation, but I think it is warranted here given whats gone wrong  
nevertheless, it is a matter for Mr D as to whether he accepts it or not.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I agree Sunlife Limited made an error here and that they 
should pay Mr D £200 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1770822