K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) significantly altered 
a ring with great sentimental value, when carrying out repairs under her contents insurance 
policy. 
The references I make  to Lloyds will include its agents. 
background 
Mrs M owns  an emerald and diamond  ring which holds great sentimental value as it was 
a gift from her late husband.  One of the claw settings became broken and a diamond was 
lost from the ring. Mrs M made a claim on her home  contents insurance, and Lloyds agreed 
to carry out repairs  to the ring. 
Mrs M made  it clear to Lloyds that the ring was priceless to her and explained the 
significance. She said she would have preferred to have had the ring repaired at a local 
jeweller known  to her, but agreed to have Lloyds  carry  out the repairs. 
Lloyds inspected the ring and contacted Mrs M to agree the repair work to be carried  out. It 
said it would  supply and set a 0.25ct marquise  diamond in a G-H colour and clarity to match  
the other diamonds  in the ring. It also said it would be necessary to re-set all of the stones  in 
the ring, to re-tip the claws and to align everything back together. Mrs M agreed  that these 
repairs could go ahead. 
In a call with Lloyds,  Mrs M queried whether or not the ring could be increased  in size to 
a size N. Lloyds  said the ring was already a size O and a half, so to change  the ring to a size 
N would  reduce the size. Mrs M asked if the ring could be increased by a half size. Lloyds 
said this was possible, but could  lead to stones becoming loose  from the ring in future. 
Mrs M said she didnt  want that to happen,  and it was agreed the size wouldnt be altered. 
After Mrs M collected the repaired ring, she contacted Lloyds and said she was very upset 
that the ring had been significantly altered and didnt look like it did before. Mrs M said the 
ring had reduced in height and that the shank was narrower. She said the emeralds were  no 
longer as dark as theyd been  previously  and the ring had reduced to a size N and lost its 
hallmark. She said the ring had changed  so much  that she thought the ring sent back  to her 
might not be her ring at all, and asked Lloyds  to find her original.
Lloyds investigated  and confirmed the ring returned to Mrs M was the original. It said some 
of the differences Mrs M had identified could  be down  to the re-setting work which  had been 
carried out and the re-tipping of the claws. It also said that the ring had been professionally 
cleaned and polished.  
Lloyds said itd made a mistake when it advised  the ring was a size O and a half and 
confirmed the ring was a size N before and after the repairs.
Mrs M didnt  accept this and complained. She said the ring had been  significantly altered 
against her wishes  and had been ruined. She also said she was unhappy with the length of 
time her ring had been away, and was worried itd been lost during this time. 
Ref: DRN17976342Lloyds agreed  to pay £1,950 to Mrs M for the ring to be re-made  by her chosen jeweller, re-
using the original diamonds.  It didnt agree to cover the cost of replacement emeralds in 
a darker shade.  
Lloyds also paid £50 compensation to Mrs M, due to delays in responding to her complaint. 
Mrs M said she was finding what had happened to her ring so hard to deal with that shed 
been prescribed an anxiety medication. She also said she didnt think it was fair that she 
should have to pay towards  correcting the appearance  of her ring, and thought Lloyds ought 
to pay her compensation. She suggested  £10,000.  
Mrs M has since said she received the ring and payment of £1,950 from Lloyds.  The ring 
was re-made using the original diamonds, new gold,  and new emeralds which  Mrs M says 
she paid £200  for. Mrs M still has the original gold ring in her possession   she says this now 
contains just the emeralds.  Mrs M said the re-made  ring still doesnt look the same as her 
original.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said: 
I accept what Mrs M has said about the altered appearance of her ring. I cant see any 
plausible reason for her to say that the ring no longer looked the same as the original  if this 
wasnt the case. However,  I do think the ring Lloyds  returned to Mrs M was her original. Ill 
explain why. 
The differences Mrs M pointed out between the original  and repaired  ring could all have 
reasonably been caused  by the repair  and re-setting work, as well as cleaning and polishing  
of the ring. The hallmark, which I note was previously worn, likely  wore away  further when 
the ring was cleaned.  The height  and width of the ring were also likely  to have been affected 
during the re-setting process. The emeralds appeared lighter in colour after the repair  and 
I think this is most likely due to them having  been  removed from the setting and fully 
cleaned. 
I also think its most likely  that the repaired ring is the same ring size as it was originally. 
Mrs M said shed  had her finger  measured at a jeweller and asked if her ring could be 
increased to a size O, but Lloyds said the ring was already size O and a half. Lloyds later 
said it made a mistake and confirmed  the ring was a size N originally. It seems probable the 
ring was originally a size N, as Mrs M had enquired about increasing the ring to size O, 
which would be the next size up. I think the original  ring had become tight and Mrs M would 
have preferred it to fit her better by being made a size bigger, but she agreed not to have the 
ring increased in size once she was told of the potential negative  impact of this.
As Mrs M was so unhappy with the altered  appearance  of her ring after the repairs,  Lloyds 
agreed to pay £1,950  for Mrs Ms local jeweller  to remake the ring. 
I think its reasonable that Lloyds paid the costs of having the ring re-made, as the repairs 
carried out by Lloyds own repairer failed  to retain the original look of the ring, which was so 
important to Mrs M. However, I think its fair that Lloyds declined to cover  the cost of new 
emeralds, as the original emeralds  could  have been set into the remade ring, and didnt  
necessarily need  to be replaced. 
Ref: DRN17976343Mrs M made  it clear to Lloyds that the ring was of the utmost  sentimental value to her, so 
I think it should have  taken better care to ensure that its repairer  carried  out the works  in 
a way that would limit changes to the appearance  of the ring. Because  of this, I think Lloyds 
should pay compensation to Mrs M. 
Mrs M clearly found this experience significantly distressing due to the rings sentimental  
value. Ive taken  into account the length of time she was without her ring, as well as the 
disappointment of the appearance of the ring after the repairs.  And I think  that compensation 
of £500 fairly  reflects  this.
response to my provisional  decision 
Lloyds responded with no further points to raise, and accepted my provisional  decision. 
Mrs M also responded and said that she accepted the provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt anything more  for me to consider as both parties  accepted my provisional 
decision. My final decision  therefore remains as outlined in my provisional  decision, for the 
same reasons.
my final decision
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to pay Mrs M £500 in respect  of the 
material distress  and inconvenience caused*. This is in addition to the £50 compensation its 
already paid.
* Lloyds  Bank General  Insurance  Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1797634