K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Virgin  Money plc offered him a promotion on his credit card he 
couldnt afford.
background
Mr S took out a credit card with Virgin Money in 2016. He was given a promotional interest 
rate of 0% rate on a balance transfer of £6,000.  The promotion ended in May 2018. Virgin  
Money then offered Mr S other promotions  and he transferred balances totalling  
approximately £9,000 to his Virgin Money credit card at promotional interest rates of 0%.
Mr S says Virgin Money shouldnt have  offered  him the other  promotions  because he was 
already significantly  in debt. He complained about  this. Virgin Money  said it wouldnt offer 
him any more promotions and also offered him £50 compensation.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Mr S was 
placed in a better financial position than he would otherwise  have been  in by accepting  
Virgin Moneys promotion.
Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money offered  Mr S promotions  which gave him a 0% interest  rate over a period of 
time for most of his credit card balance. But it didnt increase his credit  limit. Im not therefore 
persuaded that Virgin Money caused him to increase his overall level of debt.
The promotions benefitted Mr S because he was able to transfer existing debt from other 
lenders to Virgin Money and reduce the interest he was paying on that debt to 0% for the 
period of the promotion. Virgin Money  says Mr S was eligible for the offers because Mr S 
had a good payment history. Im satisfied it acted  fairly and reasonably  when it made the 
offers and Mr S had a choice whether or not to accept  them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Virgin Money plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1870669