K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) acted unfairly  and unreasonably 
when dealing with his home  emergency claim. He wants compensation for the further 
damage caused by the alleged delays.
background
Mr K had a home emergency policy with IPA, which covered sudden and unexpected events 
that caused a risk of damage to the property or its contents (amongst other things).  His 
property suffered a water  leak. Mr K said IPA took too long to deal with it, made the leak 
worse when a temporary repair was carried out and gave him poor customer service.
Mr K complained to IPA. It said Mr Ks leak appeared to be due to a broken pipe. The policy  
didnt cover the costs  of gaining access to the pipe. IPA said Mr K contacted it for assistance 
two weeks later, having traced the leak, and its contractors carried out a temporary repair  
while a new part was ordered to carry out a permanent  repair.  The wrong  part was supplied,  
which caused further delay; the work  was completed when the correct part was obtained. 
IPA accepted that it did delay completion  of the repair, but didnt think  this had made the 
damage worse. It paid £100  compensation for the trouble and upset  caused  by the delay.
Mr K complained to us. The investigators view was that it was clear from listening to the 
calls that Mr K told IPA how long the repair was taking (about  five weeks), that the damage 
was getting worse and that an attempt to refit the original part caused the leak to get worse.  
IPA didnt take action,  other than sending the contractor back, despite evidence  the 
contractor wasnt progressing the matter. 
Further, the investigator didnt think that it was fair or reasonable to have taken  so long to get 
a part which appeared to be available  within  a week. He was satisfied that the leak 
continued and was made worse by the actions of the contractor, which did make the damage 
worse in the end. The investigator said IPA should  pay £1500 towards the cost of repairing 
the damage and increase the compensation for trouble and upset from £100 to £500.  This 
included the trouble and upset from having  to use the upstairs toilet  as the downstairs toilet 
was blocked due to the original leak, even though this caused further damage.  The evidence 
showed that the toilet was fine after the leak was repaired.
IPA disagreed. It said while the proposed  £500  compensation for trouble and upset was fair 
and reasonable,  it didnt  think  that it should  be liable  for any part of the damage caused  by 
the leak. It pointed  out that it took about two weeks for the leak to be traced and it couldnt 
stop the leak without carrying out a permanent repair. Mr K explained that the initial  delay 
was caused by his home  insurer and he had to take action himself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN11804562I dont accept that it was fair or reasonable for IPA and its contractor  to have taken five 
weeks to repair the leak. Theres no explanation  as to why it was acceptable for the supplier 
to have taken  so long, why another  supplier couldnt  assist,  or why Mr Ks repeated calls 
explaining the situation didnt result in positive action. The supplier sent the wrong part, but 
no-one noticed. More  time was lost waiting  for the right part. I accept that the contractor 
removed the part to see if it could be sourced locally, but the evidence (based on Mr Ks 
calls to IPA at the time) shows that this action led to the leak getting worse.
While the initial leak wasnt caused  by IPA, and obviously damage  was caused by the 
original leak and while it was being  traced, as a matter of logic, the damage is more likely  
than not to have  got worse due to both the passage  of time (which was lengthy)  and the fact 
that the upstairs toilet had to be used by the whole family as the downstairs toilet was broken 
due to the leak. The use of the upstairs  toilet led to the leak worsening. The same happened 
following the removal of the part needed to repair the leak and the attempt  to refit it; the leak 
got worse. Mr K kept telling IPA the leak and the damage was getting  worse, as shown by 
the calls he made at the time. I think it acted unfairly  and unreasonably.
It is difficult to place  a precise figure on the damage caused by IPAs unfair and 
unreasonable delay. Ive seen the evidence on the repair costs provided by Mr K and £1500  
is less than half of the cost. Taking into account  the circumstances, the delay in initially 
finding the leak and IPAs  inaction, I think £1500 is a fair and reasonable assessment of the 
contribution IPA should make towards  the damage.
I note both parties agree with the investigators assessment of the fair and reasonable 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by IPAs failings. I also think £500 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, and wont comment further in light of the parties 
agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Inter Partner  Assistance  SA should pay a 
total of £500 compensation for the trouble  and upset caused to Mr K (minus the £100  
already paid)  and a further £1500  towards the costs of repairing the damage.  It should make 
payment within  28 days  of receipt  of notification that Mr K has accepted this decision,  or pay 
interest at a rate of 8% simple interest  a year if payment  is made later than 28 days  after 
receipt of notification of acceptance. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr K to accept or reject  my decision before 1 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1180456