K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC  didnt  cover  a claim 
Mr M made on the mechanical  breakdown policy  hed bought  to cover their new car. 
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a second-hand car from a car supermarket in November 2017. Mr M 
bought the policy at the same time. In November 2018 Mr and Mrs M noted a noise  from the 
engine. The car was assessed at a garage  in February 2019, and it found that a new engine 
was required.  Mr and Mrs M thought Amtrust  should  pay for it. 
When Amtrust  looked into the claim,  it queried  the cars service history.  What  emerged was 
that it hadnt been serviced since 2014.  Amtrust  then sent an independent engineer  to 
assess the car. He noted that its MOT certificate had expired three months  before  the claim 
was made  to Amtrust. In his view,  the car hadnt been properly looked after. He thought the 
engine had deteriorated through wear and tear over time. 
Amtrust declined the claim  and said the policy only covered sudden mechanical failure. It 
said it didnt cover damage caused by a lack of servicing or neglect. Mr and Mrs M told 
Amtrust it should insist  on any business that sold the policy having standards. But Amtrust 
said it was their duty to ensure the car was well-maintained. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He concluded that Amtrust  had 
applied the policy terms correctly in declining the claim. As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs M are upset by what happened. They  paid £899  for the policy  
and find it hard to accept  that they havent had the benefit of it. But I dont think Amtrust 
acted unreasonably in declining the claim.  
It seems  Mr and Mrs M may have been  under the impression that the car was serviced 
regularly. But I havent seen anything to show that they checked  to make sure of that before 
buying the car. If they were  misled when the car was sold to them,  that isnt Amtrusts fault. 
And the car wasnt  serviced in the year after they bought it either. They  also allowed its MOT 
certificate to run out in July 2018. So it seems that even  the most  basic  compulsory checks  
werent done on the car once they owned  it. I think if Mr and Mrs M had acted  differently,  the 
engine failure  might have  been avoided. 
I can see why the independent engineer said the car hadnt been looked  after properly. The 
policy is clear  in stating  that it doesnt cover claims if there has been a lack of servicing or 
any kind of neglect.  He thought it had been neglected and that the engine damage  had 
developed over time. We give great  weight to the views of independent engineers, so I think 
it was reasonable  for Amtrust to rely on his opinion. 
Ref: DRN14304892Given that the policy only covers sudden and unexpected mechanical breakdown - on cars 
that have been maintained - I think it was reasonable for Amtrust to decline the claim. That 
means I cant uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1430489