K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complained she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
by Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS).
background
Mrs M took out the PPI in October 2002  when  she applied for a credit card. BoS said the 
sale took place  during  a meeting and that Mrs M was advised to take the cover. Mrs M 
couldnt remember much  about the sale, but said she wasnt  given a choice about taking the 
PPI, and wasnt given  enough information  about it.
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs M had successfully claimed  on the policy for 
accident sickness or unemployment, each  month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mrs Ms credit card application. The PPI section of the form includes a 
brief statement of the cover and the cost per £100  owed. There is a tick in a box to say that 
Mrs M wanted  PPI (but no boxes ticked in another section of the form relating to another  
insurance product). As the sale took place  in a meeting, I cant know what  was discussed. 
But theres nothing  on the form to say that the PPI was compulsory, and I think  Mrs M 
couldve chosen to decline  the PPI if she didnt  want it  as she seemed to do with the other 
insurance. Taking all this into account, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a 
choice about whether  to take the PPI and that she agreed to it - and probably just doesnt  
remember doing so after all this time.
From the computer records BoS sent in, it looks as though the PPI cover  was cancelled  in 
2003.
Im satisfied that BoS advised Mrs M to take out the policy. So it had to make sure that the 
cover was suitable for her. I think it was.
As Ive said,  I cant know how the adviser verbally explained the PPI, or the things  not 
covered by the policy. But I cant  see that Mrs M wouldve  been  affected by any of these.
Mrs M said she would have  been  entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months full 
pay and six months half pay, and she wouldve had some redundancy pay. But she said she 
had no savings at the time of the sale. On balance I think she couldve found it difficult  to 
make the monthly  payments on the card once her sick pay reduced or if shed  lost her job  
Ref: DRN12110062and Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim and in 
addition to her employee benefits. So I dont think there was anything wrong with BoS 
recommending the PPI.
Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mrs M. As Ive said, I cant  
know how the adviser explained  the policy, or at what  point  Mrs M mightve been given the 
policy summary or the full policy document. I can see that the cost per £100 owed was 
shown on the application form, so I think its likely that the cost was discussed in some way. 
But its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not have been as clear as it 
shouldve been.
However, given Mrs Ms circumstances, I dont think more  detailed information about  the 
cost and benefits wouldve changed  her decision to take the policy. It couldve provided 
useful protection  if shed  been unable to work.
Overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mrs M 
paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand BoS has already made this payment to Mrs M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1211006