K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Aldermore Bank Plc was misrepresented. He wants to reject the vehicle and be 
compensated for his losses.
background
Mr J is represented in the complaint by a business  Ill refer to as S. But for ease of reading  
Ill mostly refer to Mr J.
Mr J tells us that in April 2015 he acquired  a motor vehicle from a specialist dealer Ill refer to 
a C. He says that the vehicle was described  as having mileage of 24,423  miles and a full 
service history. Mr J explains that when  he came to try and sell the vehicle, he was advised 
the speedometer had been  changed  and the mileage was higher than hed been led to 
believe by around  4,000 miles. He states that other entries of the service  history have been 
falsified. And that only three of the eleven services  listed can be verified.
Aldermore told us that C had informed it that Mr J had been thorough  in his inspection  of the 
vehicle. And that the service book supplied  to Mr J had identified that the speedometer had 
been changed. It also pointed to a condition of the agreement  which  it said required Mr J to 
inform it (Aldermore) of any issues with the vehicle.
Aldermore explained  that its own experts  had said that a small discrepancy in the mileage 
was unlikely to have any effect on the vehicles value. And that it was for franchised dealers 
to keep service records for individual  vehicles which were not necessarily shared with the 
manufacturer. It said it didnt agree that thered been any misrepresentation.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 May 2021. I indicated that I wasnt  
intending to uphold the complaint. I said that I found there was insufficient information to 
show thered been a misrepresentation. Or that the difference in mileage was material  to Mr 
Js decision to acquire the vehicle.
Since then both parties have replied. And I thank  them for their responses.  Aldermore said it 
had nothing to add. Mr J replied through his representatives. And provided  some additional 
information and comment.
Its now suggested that Mr J paid £115,000 for the vehicle and not £95,000 as stated on the 
financial agreement.  And that C misrepresented the price of the vehicle to Aldermore. 
Further, Ive been  supplied with additional information from third parties about the service 
history. Its claimed that this shows the vehicles servicing record  has been  significantly 
misrepresented.
Ive considered all the additional information and comment  with which  Ive been provided. 
But Im not minded to change my provisional decision. Ill give full reasons in my final 
decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18520142Mr Js complaint alleges misrepresentation of the vehicle. In terms, its suggested that the 
mileage isnt accurate  and that the service history of the vehicle as advertised by C was 
false. 
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
I will say at the outset that some  things are better dealt with in court.  And its not my role to 
directly investigate allegations of fraud in the same way as the police  might. So I expressly  
make no findings about  whether some documents  have been falsified. That is because I 
dont have power to investigate  or cross-examine  all the parties which  might  have relevant 
information. 
Instead, Ill concentrate  on what action,  if any, I think Aldermore should take to resolve this 
complaint. In doing so I take account of relevant law  but I dont apply it directly.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  has the effect  of making  Aldermore equally 
responsible for any misrepresentation  made about  the vehicle by C during antecedent 
negotiations. A misrepresentation  is a false statement of fact that induces a consumer to 
enter an agreement and suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation. And a 
misrepresentation might occur simply on the basis of a false  statement, without there  being  
any fraudulent intent.
The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUTR) requires the 
supplier / dealer to provide the consumer with sufficient information  about the goods that the 
average consumer  would want to know in order to make an informed  decision".
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Ill deal briefly with the suggestion made  by Mr Js representatives in the reply to my 
provisional decision, that the vehicles price  was misrepresented to Aldermore  and is 
inaccurately stated on the finance  agreement.
The copy  of the agreement which Ive seen appears  to bear Mr Js signature and the cash 
price of the vehicle is stated to be £95,000. This was to be financed  by £35,000 advance 
payment and £60,000 credit. Id also point to the initial letter  before action sent by Mr Js 
representatives to Aldermore, dated  30 April 2018, which refers to a contract price of 
£95,000.  
Ive not seen any information which in my opinion show  that the figures on the finance 
agreement are inaccurate. So I dont find that the price of the vehicle as stated on the 
agreement was misrepresented  to Mr J.
Ref: DRN18520143Neither party has been able to supply  a copy of the original advertisement. So I cant say 
what was stated, if anything, about  the service  history.
But I dont think this affects my decision. Its not in dispute that C supplied  Mr J with what  it 
said was the service record of the vehicle. Ive seen  a copy  of this document  which  contains  
this detail and also recordings  of mileage. So I infer that C was representing this document  
to Mr J as being correct to the best of its knowledge.
This document records a speedometer  change  as having taken place in 1991. Theres a 
reference to this occurring at 2,981  miles. Which I take to be the mileage on the replaced
item. The change  was allegedly carried out by a business Ill refer to as G - which  was the 
original supplying dealer in 1990. And theres  reference to G carrying  out services  in 1990 
and 1993. I infer from this that Mr J knew and accepted that thered probably been  a 
speedometer change.
Ive been told by Mr Js representatives that G has no record  of doing any work  on the 
vehicle prior to 1997. And that the vehicles manufacturer has no record of any service being 
registered before 1997. Its also now suggested  that G has no record of the employee who 
purportedly signed  the note relating to the speedometer change.
A letter dated 30 January 2020, from G to Mr Js representatives, indicates that it (G) had 
made further investigation about  the vehicles history. But had only been able to find a 
service history which showed the vehicle as having been serviced on 29/06/2015 @ 13,079 
Miles and 30/11/2017 @ 13,898  Miles.  
Ive viewed the recorded MOT history  of the vehicle.  This shows that on 16 May 2015 the 
odometer reading was 24,432 miles. And at a previous MOT in January 2011  the odometer  
reading was 23,323 miles. So the history to which G refers is not consistent with the MOT 
records. Why this is so Im unable to say. But it raises a doubt  about the reliability  or 
completeness of the information G obtained.
Ive now seen an email  dated 2 June  2021  from a business Ill refer to as M. This states  
that M has no record of the vehicle on its database.  Whereas the service history records M 
as servicing the vehicle  in 2012  and 2014.  But I note that the email  says simply that it cannot 
confirm the vehicle was repaired by M. It doesnt affirmatively  state that it was not.
Ive also been  informed by Mr Js representatives that during their enquiries they were 
advised that the entries on the service record for 1995 (service by SF), 1998 (HW) and 
2007 (JM)  are not recognised by the relevant businesses.  But that the entry  in 2005 
(HRO) is accepted.
From the above, it can be seen that there are a number of inconsistencies between the 
service history provided to Mr J and the records of the various businesses. But whether that 
is due to the service  history being inaccurate or the businesses not having kept records  Im 
unable to say.
In my opinion, theres insufficient information to show that theres been a false statement of 
fact relating to either the mileage or service  history. And I find that in the absence  of 
sufficient information  to show that C had misrepresented the vehicle, it was fair and 
reasonable for Aldermore to reject Mr Js complaint.
Ref: DRN18520144Apart from a false statement of fact, a misrepresentation also has to induce a customer to 
enter an agreement when - apart from the misrepresentation  - they would not otherwise 
have done so. And it must also result  in a loss. 
I expressed the view in my provisional  decision that the information about  these  aspects was 
contradictory. But given  my findings that theres insufficient information  to show thered been 
a false statement of fact, I dont need to determine  whether  those statements induced  Mr J 
to proceed with the transaction. And if hes incurred a loss.
Finally, Ill mention an issue which hasnt materially altered  my conclusions.  But which I think 
for completeness that I ought to cover.
In its earlier  submissions, Aldermore advised that it was aware of an advertisement  in which  
this vehicle was being offered for sale by a specialist dealer Ill refer to as AV. This was 
potentially relevant to the issue of whether Mr J might  incur  a consequential  loss as a result 
of the alleged misrepresentation. And what financial  liability Aldermore might  bear as a 
result.
In my provisional decision,  I said that Id checked  and seen an advertisement on AVs 
website for the sale of this vehicle. The asking price  was £119,500. The advert also listed a 
number of entries which appeared to be the same as those displayed in the copy  of the 
service book with which  Ive been supplied.  And elsewhere the advert referred  to the 
vehicles service history as comprehensive". I commented that the content of the 
advertisement  by using the disputed  service history to support it - seemed to be 
inconsistent with some of the terms in which this complaint was brought.
In its response to my provisional decision,  Mr Js representatives commented that AV was 
commissioned to sell the vehicle at a time when it was thought the service history was 
accurate. And they assert that now (as they see it) its been shown to be inaccurate,  the 
vehicle is unsaleable.
Ive again checked AVs website, prior to writing my final decision,  and the advert still 
appears in similar terms. Although the service history is now described as superb. I see no 
reason to change  my opinion. It appears  to be inconsistent  to complain about a 
misrepresentation, whilst at the same time be using the disputed information  to support an 
advertisement for sale.
In summary,  I repeat my earlier expressed view that whether there was fraud in the 
circumstances to which this complaint relates is a matter more suited for a court to decide.  
And not one that I can determine. 
In my opinion, the information with which Ive been supplied  in relation to the price stated on 
the agreement, the service history, and the mileage of this vehicle, is insufficient to show that 
theres been a misrepresentation  by C. In the absence of a misrepresentation, Aldermore 
has no liability under  Section  56 CCA.
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN18520145Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1852014