K820x#14complaintMiss M complains that she was treated poorly by TSB Bank plc (TSB)  when she asked 
them for a loan. 
background
Miss M has an ongoing complaint about an unconnected matter. I dont intend to discuss  
that here.
With regard to this complaint, Miss M made an appointment  to visit her branch to discuss a 
loan. She says she later got a voicemail  message telling  her she wasnt  eligible for a loan 
and cancelling  the appointment. She feels the message contained personal information 
about her and is unhappy because other  people might have been able to get access  to the 
message or overhear it when it was played.
Miss M says she made another  appointment to seek a loan jointly  with her mother. She says 
when they got to the branch the staff were rude and dismissive and just told her no lending 
was available  without  explaining or allowing  her to discuss what her options might be. Miss 
M would like an apology  for the way she was treated and an assurance  that staff will receive  
training so this wont happen again.
TSB agree with Miss M that a voicemail was left cancelling  her first appointment but they say 
it didnt contain  any personal information about  her account. TSB say they knew  they 
couldnt give Miss M a loan and didnt want her to waste time travelling to the appointment. 
They dont accept  that their customer service  was poor when Miss M and her mother  came 
into the branch.  They  say the meeting became heated because Miss M and her mother were 
upset that the loan was not granted but feel their staff acted appropriately.  
The investigator considered the case and decided the bank hadnt done anything  wrong. He 
thought cancelling her appointment because they knew they couldnt lend to her was to 
avoid her making an unnecessary trip to the branch. He didnt think leaving the voicemail to 
tell her this was unreasonable. On balance,  he didnt feel able to say that the bank staff had 
acted unreasonably in the meeting, and felt it likely that feelings  were simply running high. 
Miss M didnt agree with his decision and the case came to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the decision of the 
investigator and for much the same  reasons.  Ill explain why.
I think the message  on Miss Ms phone was left with the best of intentions in order  to avoid a 
wasted journey on Miss Ms part. I dont think that was unreasonable in the circumstances. I 
can understand Miss M feeling  concerned about the possibility of someone else hearing that 
she was not able to get a loan, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that anyone did, nor that any 
other personal information relating  to her account was contained  in the voicemail.  
With regard to the meeting, I can see how Miss M might  have  thought it was rude and 
discourteous for the bank to tell her she couldnt  get a loan before any discussion had taken 
place, especially as shed  arranged the meeting hoping to have a chat and talk about  her 
options. But I dont  think the bank were  wrong to be up front with her. If TSB were not able to 
Ref: DRN14255832offer a loan - and thats a decision entirely  for them - I think  it was right to tell her that 
immediately rather than to enter  into a discussion  first and perhaps raise  false  hopes. 
Its understandable  that Miss M felt upset and disappointed at this news but Im satisfied that 
it was reasonable  to draw the meeting to a close quickly as the outcome was unlikely to 
change, despite the strong feelings  of the parties.  
For these reasons I dont  uphold Miss Ms complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complain about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Nicola Crabb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1425583