K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained to Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited (t/a Barclays  Partner  
Finance) (BPF)  about its response to a claim under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (s.75).
background 
In 2014 Mr B had solar  panels fitted  to his home by a supplier called My Planet.  The cost of 
the installation  was £10,500  and was funded by finance taken out with BPF.  Mr B has said 
the system was misrepresented to him and so made  a s.75 claim  to BPF.
Mr B says that at the time of sale, he was considering moving  home and made My Planet 
aware of that fact.  He also says that My Planet said hed be able to move  the solar  panels to 
a new property and he would have a free move available  to him.  This was reassuring and 
so he proceeded  with the order.
In autumn 2015  Mr B moved and contacted My Planet who arranged  for the uninstallation of 
the solar panels,  but it wasnt possible for them to be fitted at Mr Bs new property.  It also 
transpired that even if the panels could be installed,  Mr B wouldnt have qualified  for the 
Feed in Tariff (FiT)  that he was benefiting  from after the initial  installation.   The  panels  have 
remained stored in Mr Bs garage since 2015.
My Planet went into liquidation  in 2016  and after considering  what to do, Mr B complained  to 
BPF about  the situation, and that he was continuing  to pay the loan.  BPF responded by 
letter in November 2016 stating it didnt consider the solar panels had been mis-sold.
Mr B didnt receive the letter  from BPF and contacted it in January 2017 for an update,  but 
wasnt provided with one.  So when he contacted BPF again in March  2017 he was then told 
the complaint  had been closed. He then raised a further complaint to BPF about customer  
service and it upheld  his concerns and offered £25 compensation.
As Mr B was still unhappy  with things overall, he referred his concerns to this Service.   One 
of our investigators looked into everything and recommended  the complaint be upheld.  In  
summary she said that although  there  was no written agreement,  the fact My Planet had 
undertaken to move  the solar  panels without charge supports Mr Bs version of events.  But  
the fact they couldnt be installed on his new home  and he wouldnt qualify for the FiT 
savings, suggests  the situation was misrepresented to Mr B at the point of sale.
Mr B accepted the investigators opinion but BPF did not.  In summary  it said:
Theres no documented evidence of a free move  and any such agreement  did not form 
part of the contract financed  by BPF.   Any verbal arrangement  between  Mr B and My 
Planet formed a separate agreement.
Theres a record of Mr B contacting My Planet before moving  house  to ensure the 
panels could be re-installed   which shows he knew they might not be able to.
There was a considerable  gap in time before Mr B complained to BPF.  Why did he not 
complain earlier  when  he knew  the panels could  not be re-installed?
BPFs response did not change the investigators view, and so it asked for an ombudsman  to 
consider everything  afresh.
Ref: DRN17333242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.
Where information is unclear or in dispute  Im required  to decide what I consider  to be most  
likely on balance.
misrepresentation
Im satisfied that at the time Mr B was first dealing with My Planet he made it clear he was 
planning on moving home soon and had reservations about incurring the considerable cost 
of solar panel installation.  This is supported by the fact Mr B did in fact move very soon 
after, and that My Planet agreed  to a free move   which I understand was not a standard 
feature of such sales.
As there is no documented agreement about what a free move  actually  includes,  Ive taken 
a pragmatic approach  in considering what was likely.  Mr B agreed to the purchase of the 
system on the basis it would generate financial savings and have a positive  environmental 
impact.  Given the considerable expense  of installing the solar  panels, I dont think its likely 
Mr B would have gone ahead  with the purchase  without the reassurance  of being able to 
move the system when  needed and continue  to use the funds from energy savings to 
maintain the loan.
BPF says that the provision of a free move was an agreement made  separately  between Mr 
B and My Planet, rather than forming part of the agreement it was financing  for the provision  
and installation of the solar panel system.  But I disagree.  As it would have likely been such 
a key consideration for Mr B, the reassurance of a free move and resulting benefit  would 
have been a major inducement to enter  into the system purchase and finance agreement.
Mr B has been paying to service the finance  agreement for the solar panels with BPF each 
month, but the system  has been sat in storage in his garage since  2015  when he moved.  
Although I consider it unlikely, it is possible Mr B was generally satisfied with this 
arrangement on the basis  of his house  move  in 2015 being  more important and having a 
greater financial impact  on his circumstances.
But overall, given  that Mr B moved  home only 6 months after the panels were  installed, Im 
persuaded he would not have entered the financial  commitment  unless  he believed he could 
move the panels  and continue to get the benefit.   So given Im satisfied the ability  to do that 
by way of a free move  was offered to Mr B by My Planet, I consider the position was 
misrepresented to him.
The ability to benefit from FiT savings  would never  have been available to Mr B once  he had 
moved.  So the solar  panels would not be as cost effective and self-sufficient as he was 
expecting, or had briefly benefited from when  first installed.
customer service
Mr B is unhappy that BPF didnt deal with his requests for an update  on his complaint.  It did 
respond by letter in November 2016,  and although  Mr B didnt receive it, I cant  be sure why 
or say BPF did anything  wrong in this regard.
Ref: DRN17333243But Mr B made several attempts to get an update from BPF after it had issued its response, 
and it was clear he had not received  the letter.  So BPF had the opportunity to provide Mr B 
with a copy of that letter  but it didnt.
BPF has said it made attempts to communicate  with Mr B, but they are not recorded on its 
system records.   In any event, I believe BPF could have provided  a better service and its 
failure to do so increased the level of uncertainty, and so the trouble and upset Mr B has 
experienced.
putting things right
So given that Ive concluded  there was a misrepresentation made  to Mr B at the time of sale,  
Ive also considered what BPF should  do to put things right.
Its clear that Mr B wanted the solar  panels  and had received benefit  from their initial  
installation until moving property.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to fully unwind the agreement 
from the outset.  
To put things right BPF should:
A)write off any remaining loan balance;
B)refund  all payments  made by Mr B to service the loan since  25 September 2015;
C)pay interest on the payments made at B) above at a rate of 8% simple per annum  from 
the date each payment was made to the date of settlement;
D)arrange for the removal  of the solar  panels  from Mr Bs storage, or cover  the cost of 
the responsible  removal of the panels  arranged by Mr B.
E)pay £100 to Mr B for trouble and upset.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance).
I direct  it to carry  out the steps set out at A  E above.  If it considers it necessary to 
deduct tax from the interest awarded  at point C, then it should  provide Mr B with a tax 
deduction certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020. 
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1733324