K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Virgin Money  plcs treatment  of him forced him to move  his account and 
would like it to reimburse the costs  of him doing so.
background
Mr K made a previous complaint about  Virgin, which we upheld in part. And Mr K accepted  
the final decision. He says that as a result of what took place, he was forced to move his 
account and Virgin should pay the costs of doing so.
Virgin says it wasnt its intention to cause Mr K further upset  but says its not responsible for 
the charges made by another provider.  It doesnt  accept it forced Mr K to open a new 
account with another  provider.
Mr K brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. He thought it was Mr 
Ks decision to move  his account and so couldnt fairly order  Virgin  to reimburse  any costs.
Mr K doesnt  accept that view and says Virgin forced  him to move accounts as its actions 
were affecting his mental health. He also says some of his calls to Virgin  were  not recorded  
and are missing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator. I realise  Mr K will be disappointed by my decision.
I can see that Mr K accepted the final decision in his previous complaint. And I think  that his 
complaint about  the call recordings  relates to the circumstances of that complaint. So as that 
complaint has been dealt  with, I do not intent  to make any findings  or comments  on that 
issue.
I appreciate Mr K says he felt Virgin forced  him to set up a new account. But Im satisfied 
that was Mr Ks choice  and Ive considered that he had accepted  the outcome of the 
previous complaint.  So I cant fairly  hold Virgin responsible  for Mr Ks costs  in setting up a 
new account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1387123