K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2003 through an inbound activation  call. Mrs L says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold 
her the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I was not intending to 
uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs L or Capital One responded with any new or further information for me 
to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Capital One (Europe)  plc does have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I wont be awarding any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in
2003 through  an inbound  activation call. Mrs L says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18025912Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Im currently  intending to not uphold  Mrs Ls case and Ill explain why.
Mrs L has said PPI was added to her account without her agreement. Capital One has said they 
wouldve needed Mrs Ls consent before adding PPI. Capital One has provided  me with a copy  of 
the credit application completed at the time and I can see PPI has been declined in it. From what I 
know of Capital Ones sale processes, if PPI is declined  in the initial application for the credit card, 
the only other  way Capital One can sell PPI is through a telephone call. So Im satisfied the sale the 
policy in Mrs Ls case took place through a telephone call.
Capital One has provided copies of its internal screenshots that show that PPI was taken  on the 
same day as the card was activated  almost  four weeks after the initial application. So I think  its 
more likely  than not that PPI was requested and applied  to the account during the inbound 
activation call of the card.
Mrs L has asked for evidence to show that she agreed to the PPI  but Capital One hasnt been 
able to provide me with the recording of the telephone call, which  isnt surprising considering how 
long its been. So I cant know exactly how the policy  was presented during the call. But as I cant  
know what was said, I need to decide what I think is more likely  than not to have happened.
Given what I know about Capital  Ones  telephone sales process during activation calls in and 
around the time, I think  its likely that Capital One wouldve made it clear that taking the policy  was 
optional. I think its more likely the representative  would have been instructed  to ask Mrs L whether  
or not she wanted PPI and it would only have been applied to the account if she had requested it. I 
havent seen sufficient evidence  to conclude that this didnt  happen or that the usual sales process  
wasnt followed.  Nor is there enough evidence  to say Mrs L didnt agree to take the policy when she 
seems to have done as PPI was applied  to her account following the activation call.
Ive also considered that PPI would have appeared on Mrs Ls monthly  credit card statements 
and I think Mrs L wouldve  questioned why she was paying for PPI with Capital One if it was 
something she didnt know shed taken out. But it seems  Mrs L continued  to pay PPI for some 
years after taking the policy out.
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs L got the information she needed  to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information  Capital One gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  Based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  about  the PPI 
would have put her off taking  out the cover.
Mrs L has said she would have received  full sick pay for one year from her employer  at the time. 
This would be an unusually high level of sick pay so I asked Mrs L for evidence of this but she isnt 
able to provide any because of how long its been. So, this has reduced the weight Ive been  able 
to place on this. So, whilst  I accept its possible  Mrs L had this sick pay, without  any evidence to 
support what  she has said, I cant  safely say she did have sick pay for twelve months,  or that she 
had no use for PPI. The PPI would cover 10% of the outstanding balance  of her account  for up to 
12 months if she was too sick to work or she lost her job. And this would be in addition to any other 
pay she would receive.
Ref: DRN18025913This means  Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L. But Capital  One 
has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because:
When the policy was sold, Capital One expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about that. 
Because Capital One didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said but these points dont change my decision.  Mrs L 
has said she didnt make a claim when she was made redundant. If Mrs L has any concerns  about  
any possible  claims she could  have  made she should  contact the insurer in the first instance. I 
have only looked at the sale of the policy in this decision.
Ref: DRN1802591