K820x#14complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  with the decision to accept liability and settle a third party claim following a 
road traffic accident.  The motor insurance  policy was provided by U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI).
background
In June 2018, Mrs C said she joined a roundabout when a third party  stopped suddenly 
causing her to collide with the passenger side of the vehicle, and a passenger that had 
exited the car. 
There has been a dispute about whether  two separate collisions occurred, as the third party 
vehicle had damage to both the passenger side and drivers side. The third party  also 
suffered injuries  as a result of being  hit during the collision.  UKI is the insurer  for both Mrs C 
and the third party involved.  
Mrs T said she collided with the third partys vehicle  because  it had stopped suddenly  on the 
roundabout so a passenger could exit the car. Mrs T thinks  UKI should consider the third 
partys involvement in causing the accident by stopping suddenly on the roundabout. 
UKI said it believes Mrs T didnt leave enough  stopping distance as the third party  was able 
to stop the vehicle and exit out of the passenger side door before Mrs T had time to avoid  
the collision. 
UKI investigated the accident and obtained  witness reports  from members of the public that 
were present  at the time of the accident. Mrs T said she thinks the witnesses were known to 
the third party  and therefore shouldnt  be relied  on. UKI also considered  the third party  
vehicles damage.  It concluded that the passenger side repair  costs  would deem  the vehicle 
a total loss and therefore said the settlement amount had no bearing on whether one or two 
collisions took place.   
Mrs T is also unhappy about UKIs handling of the claim. She said UKI mentioned  she was 
recovering from a specific medical  condition which she said wasnt  true. She also said she 
didnt tell UKI she wasnt prepared to go to court. Mrs T also received a duplicate final 
response letter in November 2018.  UKI has apologised and said these errors had no bearing 
on the decision to accept liability and settle  the third partys claim. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ts complaint. She explained that our role isnt to decide 
whos at fault for an accident. And our role in complaints  of this nature is simply to 
investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim  and, whether they acted 
fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Having completed  her 
investigation, she didnt  think  UKI had acted  unfairly.  She also reviewed  the service  and 
communication issues Mrs T had complained about, and felt UKI had put things right by 
apologising which was adequate in the circumstances. 
Mrs T disagreed with our investigators view. She agrees she collided with the third party 
vehicle and caused some  injury  to the passenger when travelling from behind,  but thinks the 
third party should  accept joint liability for stopping  suddenly on the roundabout.  Mrs T also 
thinks UKI has acted unfairly by not relying  on the police report, and instead  using 
statements from witnesses she believes knew the third party. Mrs T remains  of the opinion 
Ref: DRN19251432the third party  is to blame and UKI should change its liability  decision. As Mrs T remains  
unhappy the case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs 
Ts complaint and will explain why. 
In common with many motor insurance policies, Mrs Ts contains the following information:
3 Claims procedure  Our rights and your  obligations
b We are entitled to:
Take over and carry out the negotiation,  defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name, or in the name of any other  person covered  by the policy:  
Take proceedings in your name,  or in the name  of any other person covered by this 
policy, to get back  and money  we have paid under this policy
c You must give us any information and help we need 
This condition means that UKI is entitled  to settle  any claims against a policyholder,  if it 
thinks its appropriate to do so. Nonetheless,  I would  expect UKI to act fairly and reasonably 
when doing so. 
Its not disputed  that Mrs T collided with the third partys vehicle while it was stationery. Mrs 
T also accepts she collided with the passenger that exited the vehicle. Witness statements 
retrieved by UKI and Mrs Ts testimony  also confirm this is most likely to have happened.  
The third party claimed Mrs T collided with their vehicle twice.  Mrs T said this means she 
would have had to have gone round  the roundabout after colliding with the third party the 
first time and hit the vehicle again on the opposite side.  
There is evidence of damage to both sides of the third party  vehicle. But having looked at the 
witness reports and the testimony provided  by Mrs T Im not persuaded theres enough  
evidence to conclude  that Mrs T collided with the third partys vehicle twice. Ive looked at 
the claim notes provided by UKI and in my view they are of the opinion that its unlikely two 
collisions took place.  Theres a note about  witnesses hearing sounds  of a first collision but it 
doesnt appear two collisions were witnessed. So I dont  think  its fair for me to determine 
whether one or two collisions took place based on whats available.  
UKI has confirmed the damage caused to the passenger side of the third partys  vehicle 
deemed the vehicle  a total loss. So the damage Mrs T has accepted  she caused has 
resulted in the vehicle being  a total loss. And the settlement  figure hasnt been affected by 
the further damage to the drivers side that Mrs T says wasnt caused by her. 
On balance, and taking the above  extract from the policy  into account, I agree with our 
investigators view and for broadly the same  reasons. I believe UKI has carried  out a fair 
investigation based on all of the information collected and gathered by it. This includes the 
testimony provided by Mrs T that she accepts she collided  with the stationary third party  
vehicle and the passenger when she was travelling behind it. 
Ref: DRN19251433Looking to the service  issues  Mrs T has raised, UKI has apologised for sending out a 
duplicate final response letter  and the miscommunication around whether she had suffered 
from a specific health condition. And Im satisfied these errors had no bearing  on its decision 
to accept liability.
UKI has provided us with information about a call that took place between Mrs T and its 
agent when it believes Mrs T mentioned suffering  from the specific  health condition. It said 
Mrs T called UKI to say she asked for a call to be put off until the following week.  It claims 
Mrs T told UKI that she had been  recently taken ill and had suffered a mild version of the 
specific health condition.  I appreciate  if there has been a miscommunication here it wouldve 
been concerning for Mrs T, but I wouldnt require UKI to do more  here as it hasnt impacted 
the overall claims decision.  
Mrs T disputes that she told UKI that she didnt want to attend court  if required to do so. As 
our investigator said, UKI are expected to weigh up whether the third party would accept  
liability if the case was brought  to court and whether they would be able to successfully 
defend the case on the basis  of the evidence. In the circumstances of this case  I think UKI 
has fairly accepted  liability  and its reasonable of it to do so without going  to court.  And 
whether Mrs T would or would not be willing  to attend court  hasnt impacted this.
Finally Im mindful  Mrs T has concerns with UKI being the insurer  for both her and the third 
party. Having considered all of the information  available on file Im satisfied a fair 
investigation took place throughout. 
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1925143