K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about the loans he took out with CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as 
Quick Quid (Quick Quid). He says the loans were unaffordable.
background
Mr A took seven loans  from Quick  Quid between October 2015  and December 2016.  A 
summary of some  of the information  Quick Quid provided about  Mr As borrowing is shown 
below.
Loan 
numberPrincipal 
(£)Highest 
repayment  
(£)Total 
Due 
(£)Term days 
(instalments)Start End
 1  200 222 243  27 (2) 10/10/2015 6/11/2015
 2 200 239 239 27 (1) 19/11/2015 16/12/16
2a 200 264 264 45 (1) 11/12/2015 29/2/2016*
 3 500 648 648 41 (1) 16/3/2016 26/4/2016
 4 250 302 327 43 (2) 12/5/2016 24/6/2016
 5 250  312 342 46 (2) 11/8/2016 26/9/2016
 6 250 306 402 76 (3) 8/10/2016 11/10/2016
 7  300 367 506 86 (3) 31/12/16 27/3/2017
 7a 250 673 918  5/1/2017 27/3/2017
 7b  250 979 1318  11/1/2017 27/3/2017
*original  end date of 25 January 2016 was extended
Our adjudicator recommended  Mr As complaint  about loans  3, 4, 6 and 7 (including 
refinances and top ups) should be upheld. He felt that Quick Quid  didnt do enough when 
checking whether  it should lend to Mr A from loan 3 onwards.  If it had done, he thought  the 
checks wouldve shown loans 3, 4, 6 and 7 (and tops ups) had become unaffordable.  
The adjudicator recommended Quick  Quid refund the interest and charges that Mr A paid on 
these loans as well as removing any adverse information it may have reported to the credit 
reference agencies.
Mr As representative has provided  no further  arguments for me to consider.
Quick Quid didnt agree that Mr A shouldnt have  been provided with loans  3, 4, 6 and 7. 
Briefly it said: 
It did conduct appropriate and proportionate  affordability assessments, including 
validation of Mr A's income and expenses before funding these loans.
By 1 March 2015, it implemented an affordability  review  that is consistent  with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook  and was in place at the time it received 
authorisation from the FCA.
Ref: DRN12293652I issued my provisional decision on 12 March 2019  explaining why I was thinking of reaching 
a slightly different conclusion to the adjudicator and upholding Mr As complaint in relation to 
loans 4-7. I also explained why I wasnt upholding loans 1-3.
Mr A has confirmed  he has nothing further  to add. Quick Quid did not agree with my 
provisional decision.
In summary  it said:
It doesnt agree there was a pattern to indicate  Mr A was struggling financially  it 
said the loan amounts  regularly fluctuated,  decreasing  as much as 50%. 
Mr A requested only one extension  and had no late repayment charges. A customer  
that is dependent on lending would typically request  to extend their loans on multiple 
occasions or even  miss repayments.
Mr As loans  were subject to its enhanced checks and it included a summary table 
about how it calculated a monthly  estimated disposable income from CRA (credit 
reference agency)  validated  figures.
Although Mr A was gambling, it appears he was not exceeding his disposable income 
to the point that he would be unable to honour  his loan repayments, which shows he 
was responsibly managing his finances.
It also provided a document with information about its lending  process.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont agree the amounts  Mr A borrowed regularly fluctuated. The general pattern was an 
upward trend as shown in my table above.  There was only one decrease in lending  between 
loans 3 and 4 and that was following a large  increase in lending  between loans 2 and 3. So 
even though loan 4 decreased by 50% - the resulting loan was still for 25% more  than the 
first loan borrowing. Perhaps more significantly,  Mr A never borrowed less than the original 
amount. The final loan (after it was topped up twice) was 4 times the amount Mr A originally 
borrowed. The overall effect  of the lending was that Mr A was increasing his indebtedness to 
Quick Quid over an extended period.
The fact that Mr A was able to repay  each  loan does not mean he was able to do so out of 
his normal income or without having to borrow further. Mr A was provided with new loans 
within days or weeks of settling a previous one. So Quick Quid  ought to have realised that it 
was more likely than not that Mr A was having  to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying 
his previous loan was leaving in his finances. 
Quick Quid has not provided any evidence to substantiate the CRA (credit  reference agency) 
validated figures  it has presented to me. I have not been sent the CRA results  from which  
these figures have been taken. 
Quick Quids own key procedures document has said that where a discrepancy  arose  in 
relation to financial figures it says it would have asked the customer  for his or her bank  
Ref: DRN12293653account statements  to further check. In Mr As case, for several loans I can see that there  
were discrepancies  between Mr As declared  credit  commitment information and the CRA 
validated credit figures. And yet it does not seem that Quick  Quid  sought or obtained the 
bank statements from Mr A. Or if they did, I have  not been  given these  as part of this 
complaint.
All of this leads me to proceed with relatively  little confidence in the figures presented  to 
show me CRA validated  credit commitment checks Quick Quid carried  out and the resulting 
EDI figures.
The document the lender  sent in response to my provisional decision is one it seems to send 
to this Service as a matter  of course  on many of its complaints. It is a generic document 
which doesnt directly  address  any of the points  made in my provisional decision but explains 
why it is of the view that all of its lending decisions were made  responsibly  after March  2015. 
This document forms part of its earlier arguments  which I outlined and responded to in my 
provisional decision. For completeness I have included this below:
In terms of loans 3, 4, 6 and 7, Quick Quid said that it could not agree that it was 
irresponsible in lending  to Mr A primarily because
Starting 1 March 2015, before Mr A borrowed these loans, Quick  Quid had implemented  an 
affordability review that is consistent with the FCA Handbook and that was in place at the 
time we received  authorisation  by the FCA. We confirm that this assessment was conducted  
properly and individually for these loans.
Quick Quid has explained in some detail how it carried out its assessment of Mr As loan 
applications. It also said:
In response  to your assessment which recommends CashEuroNet  UK uphold  loans which  
were funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that we cannot  agree to your 
recommendations. Please note that in CashEuroNet UK's  initial  response  to FOS we 
provided detailed  information indicating why the loans were  responsibly lent to Mr A. 
Furthermore, we would like to advise that we are currently  in talks with senior management 
at FOS to amicably resolve this outstanding issue, therefore we agree that this case  should  
be escalated to the ombudsman queue for a final decision.
This Service has responded to Quick Quid on this generic  argument  directly and through  
earlier final decisions. So I am not going to address this point here,  although I have 
considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind Quick  Quid  at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance  in 
how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
Ref: DRN12293654(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So having  reconsidered  all the available evidence and Quick  Quids new arguments, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision. For 
completeness, I have set this out below:
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr As complaint  and what  both parties  have said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr A borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind  
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect Quick Quid to be familiar with these through previous ombudsman decisions, 
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
did Quick Quid carry out proportionate checks?
Turning to the specifics of Mr As complaint,  our adjudicator didnt uphold his complaint 
about his first two loans  (including a refinance  on loan 2), saying that, based on the 
information the lender had, the checks went far enough. I agree with this conclusion.  It was 
early on in the lending relationship and the loans repayments were small in relation  to Mr As 
declared income.
However, by loan 3 Mr A had been  continuously borrowing for five months  and the amount 
Quick Quid lent was now two and a half times the original borrowing. Mr A had also 
refinanced loan 2 and then deferred the payment. I think at this point Quick Quid ought to 
have realised it couldnt rely on the information  being provided by Mr A and should  have  
taken steps to verify the true state of Mr As finances. I think  it should have continued to fully 
review Mr As financial situation throughout the remainder of the lending  relationship  to 
ensure that Mr A could repay the loans without  undue difficulty. 
I have considered what Quick Quid has said about how it carried out its affordability 
assessment, but I still dont consider  it has shown  me that it did enough  to verify the true 
position about Mr As financial  circumstances.
Ref: DRN12293655what would  proportionate checks most  likely have shown?
Even though  I dont  think that the checks Quick Quid carried  out were proportionate when Mr 
A took loans  3-7, this doesnt, on its own, mean that Mr As complaint should  be upheld.  I 
need to establish if further checks had been  done,  what they wouldve shown Quick Quid 
about Mr As ability to sustainably repay those loans.
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for these loans, I dont know  exactly what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a reasonable and 
proportionate affordability check would have  told Quick  Quid  that it was unfair to offer these 
loans to Mr A.
Mr A has provided us with some  evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks  might  show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information  Mr A has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Quick  Quid  mightve carried  out. But I have based my 
decision on what I think is more likely than not on the balance of probabilities.
loan 3
Looking at Mr As bank statements, at this time,  they dont show  all the usual monthly 
expenses such as rent and utility bills and there  arent many direct debits. Mr A also told us 
his recollections of his regular  expenses  at the time - such as rent, food, travel and phone. 
He gave us figures  totalling around £520. 
But not all of these  costs are clear  from the bank statements. He told us he was living  at 
home and paying  his parents rent in cash  or by bank  transfer. Whilst there are some cash 
withdrawals, I cant see any sums that might  obviously be rent and I cant see any bank 
transfers at this time. I accept Mr A would  have had some normal  living  costs  but from what I 
can see, I dont  think  they totalled as much as £520 from the time of loan 3. 
If Quick Quid had carried out a full review  of Mr As financial circumstances, in the run up to 
loan 3, I think its likely it would have  discovered:
Mr As income was less than hed declared  to Quick Quid   around £1,580
he had one other short term loan outstanding of around £131
transactions to online betting sites totalling around £360
  
After the repayment  amount of around £648,  this would  have  been  left Mr A with around 
£441 to meet his normal living costs and regular financial commitments.  Overall,  taking 
everything into account and bearing in mind what Mr A told Quick Quid about his expenses  
at the time, I dont  think theres enough here for me to safely  conclude  that the loan 
repayment would have seemed unaffordable to Quick Quid at the time.
Ref: DRN12293656loan 4
If Quick Quid had continued to carry out a full review  of Mr As finances, for example looking 
at his bank statements,  in the run up to loan 4, its likely it would have seen:
Mr As income was less than declared   around £1,550
he had other short  term lending outstanding with three  other lenders totalling around  
£926
transactions to online betting sites of around £385
This left Mr A with around £239 - from which he needed to meet all normal living costs and 
regular financial commitments  as well as the two repayments of around £25 and £302 during 
the 43 day term of the loan. Ive considered the structure of this loan but even  taking into 
account the smallest  repayment of £25, I dont  think this would  have left Mr A with enough to 
meet all his normal living  costs and regular financial commitments. I think all of this would 
have indicated to Quick Quid that Mr A was not in a position to meet  those payments when 
they fell due. 
loan 5
The adjudicator didnt uphold loan 5 as he felt that Mr A had enough disposable income to 
cover the repayments  of £30 and £312  over a 41 day term. However, there was some  
additional short term lending  that the adjudicator  didnt take into account.
If Quick Quid had carried out a full review  of Mr As financial circumstances, in the run up to 
loan 5, I think its likely it would have  discovered
Mr As income was less than  declared   around £1,550
he had other short  term lending outstanding with three  other lenders totalling around  
£478
transactions to online betting sites of around £407
When loan 5 was agreed,  Mr A had been  continuously borrowing from Quick  Quid  for ten 
months with little in the way of gaps.  Mr As salary remained  the same and his financial 
circumstances were  not improving. His bank statements continued to show regular 
transactions to online betting sites. He also continued using a number of other  short term 
lenders. 
Whilst some  of the other short term loans may have been repaid by the time the larger 
second repayment was due  I think given the pattern  that was emerging  that the consumer 
was becoming reliant on short term lending and wasnt managing to repay them  from his 
normal means without  having  to borrow further. 
So, if Quick  Quid had fully reviewed Mr As financial situation, I think it ought to have realised 
that Mr A had become reliant on its loans and wasnt managing to repay them  out of his 
normal means and his position had become unsustainable. 
Ref: DRN12293657loans 6 and 7
Loans 6 and 7 followed with little in the way of breaks and loan 7 was topped  up twice. Mr 
As income  remained the same during the remaining period of his borrowing with Quick  
Quid. He continued to use a number of other short term lenders and his bank statements 
showed similar levels of online betting  transactions.  By loan 7, Mr As bank statements start 
to show transactions  which indicate he was paying  rent and more bills supporting an overall 
increase in expenses. So I think if Quick Quid had done further checks, it would have  
realised Mr A could not afford to repay these loans in a sustainable  way either.
putting things  right
To put things right for Mr A, I require Quick Quid to
A) add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr A towards interest,  fees and 
charges on loans 4-7 including  tops ups 
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr A which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally  made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) pay Mr A the total of A plus B.
D) remove  any adverse information Quick Quid have recorded on Mr As credit file in relation 
to the upheld loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to deduct tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr As complaint as Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision. I require CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick Quid  to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Kathryn Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1229365