K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he was funding through  a finance agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  (MBFS).
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will come  as a 
disappointment to MBFS so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr S. The car here 
was brand new so I dont  think  a reasonable person would expect anything to be wrong with 
it.
The relevant  legislation  also says we should  consider whether a car has been suitably 
durable when  considering  if it is of satisfactory quality.
Mr S financed a convertible car and I think its fair to say that an important  feature of such  a 
car is that the retractable roof should  work  properly. I dont think  its unreasonable  to suggest 
that would  be for the duration  of the agreement and I think the dealership accepted  that the 
roof wasnt  of a satisfactory standard when they told Mr S I can see why youre saying 
youre unable  to use the roof.
Im persuaded that Mr S reported the roof problem in January 2019. Relevant  legislation 
would allow the business an opportunity to repair the fault, but the legislation  also says that 
repair should be carried out in a reasonable time frame. 
Ref: DRN13782352I dont think the car was repaired  in a reasonable time frame. Im persuaded that Mr S was 
without his car from January 2019 until the end of August  2019.  
In those circumstances I think the business  should have allowed Mr S to reject the car at the 
end of May when he asked to. If theyd done that I would have expected  them to return 
Mr Ss deposit; return some payments in respect of the loss of use hed experienced and 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr S has now returned the car. So, theres  no need to end the agreement. But MBFS should 
refund Mr Ss deposit as it would be required when organising  a replacement vehicle. MBFS 
should add 8% interest to this refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement as 
Mr S has been deprived of that money  whilst  funding a car of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr S appears to have  been provided with a courtesy car whilst  his car was garaged but its 
clear the car was not a convertible and was of a lower specification.  I think  that would have 
been disappointing for Mr S as this was during  the summer period, when he would have had 
most use from the convertible  roof. So, I think MBFS should refund  25% of his finance 
instalments, for the period the fault with the car persisted, to compensate Mr S for the lack of 
use he experienced. For clarity I am persuaded that period is from January 2019, which was 
evidenced in a booking confirmation provided  by Mr S, to August 2019, which was 
evidenced in an email Mr S provided to the dealership that wasnt  contradicted. So, finance 
instalments made in those months  should be refunded. 
I think its clear  Mr S has been inconvenienced here.  Hes had to return  his car to the 
dealership and to chase  rectification work over an extended period. Hes also had to pursue 
a claim through  this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier.  In the 
circumstances, I would agree with the investigator that MBFS should pay Mr S £250  
compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
refund  Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund  25% of the finance instalments Mr S paid between, and including,  January 
2019 and August  2019.
pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in connection with 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Phil McMahon
Ref: DRN13782353ombudsman
Ref: DRN1378235