K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Miss F say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr D and Miss F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004. Mr D and Miss F paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them  in case 
either of them  was off sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D and Miss F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Miss Fs case. 
Having done that, I dont  think  that this policy was mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Halifax dont still have  Mr D and Miss Fs original paperwork, which  is understandable given 
how long ago the sale was, and how long ago the policy  was cancelled. But we have seen 
samples of the documents  Mr D and Miss F wouldve  used. From those, it looks like Mr D 
and Miss F wouldve been given  a choice about whether they wanted PPI, and in order  to 
get the policy they wouldve had to actively choose it. It also looks  like the PPIs cost 
wouldve been set out as separate to the cost of the mortgage itself, rather  than as 
something that was necessarily included. So I think its most likely that Halifax made Mr D 
and Miss F aware they had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that they chose to take it at 
the time  though I can understand if they no longer remember doing  so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr D and Miss F, so it had to check  it was right for them.  
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
they dont appear  to have been  affected  by any of the policys  main exclusions  or limitations.  
And while they had some  benefits through work, the PPI covered them for longer and paid 
out on top of those  benefits. I understand that Mr D and Miss Fs family wouldve  been happy 
to help, but there was always the chance  theyd be unable to help when needed.  And this 
policy meant Mr D and Miss F wouldnt have to ask their family  to pay their mortgage. Its 
worth bearing in mind  that if Mr D and Miss F fell behind on their payments, the risked losing 
their home. So I think the PPI wouldve been  useful for them  in protecting  their home.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr D and Miss F about  PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I said above, it doesnt  look like either of them was affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover, and the PPI couldve really been useful for 
them in case  they fell on difficult times.  It also looks  like the policy  wouldve been  affordable.  
So I dont  think better information was likely to have  put Mr D and Miss F off taking out the 
cover.
Ref: DRN11485522my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr D and Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D and Miss F 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1148552