K820x#14Complaint
Mr S and Ms C say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
In 1991, Nationwide sold Mr S and Ms C a monthly premium PPI policy  to protect  their 
mortgage repayments if either of them became unable  to work because  of disability or 
unemployment. Without any evidence to the contrary, it seems  the monthly benefit amount 
was split equally between  them. From  1993, the mortgage and PPI continued in Ms Cs 
name only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr S and Ms C disagreed,  so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and 
Ms Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from 1991,  which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So Ive reached  my decision on the balance of the remaining 
evidence, together  with experience of how these types of policy  were  sold.  
Ive carefully considered  Mr S and Ms Cs argument  about believing  they had to have PPI if 
they wanted their mortgage. But thats contradicted by their more  recent  suggestion that 
these [companies] snuck  these surcharges in without us fully knowing what they were. 
And, while theres nothing  to conclusively  show Mr S and Ms C agreed to the PPI from the 
paperwork Ive seen,  I dont think its likely  that Nationwide would have added this cover 
without making them  aware it was optional or getting their agreement  to take it.
I dont believe Nationwide  recommended the PPI to Mr S and Ms C. So it didnt need  to take 
steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Having said that, it still should have provided 
them with clear, fair and not misleading  information  to enable them to make  up their own 
minds about whether it was right for them. 
I cant say for sure that Nationwide did all it should  have but, from what  I know of Mr S and 
Ms Cs circumstances  at the time, I dont think better information would have changed their 
minds about taking the PPI in any case. For example, from what Mr S and Ms C have said,  
theyd have been eligible for the cover and wouldnt  have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy likely  excluded or limited cover  for. I cant see that Mr S and Ms C would 
have found the monthly  premium unaffordable either.
Ref: DRN14407872It seems  as though Mr S and Ms C might  have been  entitled  to some sick pay from their 
respective employers. But the PPI benefits were  considerable and potentially  paid out for up 
to 24 months for each  successful disability or unemployment claim.  If they had savings, the 
PPI meant they could  have retained them or used them to cover  their other living  costs  if 
either of them  wasnt  working.
Ive considered that Mr S and Ms C might have received support from family if they got into 
financial difficulty. But, unlike the benefits offered  by the PPI, that help wasnt  guaranteed to 
be available to them when  they needed  it. 
Taking into account that Mr S and Ms C had entered into a long-term financial commitment 
that was secured against their home, I think theyd have valued the additional protection  the 
PPI provided. The same can be said about  Ms C after she became the sole mortgage  and 
policyholder in 1993.
Ive thought about Mr S and Ms Cs point  that theyve successfully sought compensation for 
mis-sold PPI from other businesses and that Nationwide  should pay out in this case. 
However, Nationwides entitled to defend the complaint if it believes this particular policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  And, overall, I agree with Nationwide that Mr S and Ms C havent lost out 
because of how Nationwide  sold them  this PPI policy or because  of the subsequent changes 
made to it. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1440787