K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W complains that Sesame Limited  mis-sold a free-standing additional voluntary 
contribution (FSAVC) plan.
Background
Mrs W met with an adviser, who was a representative of Sesame, in 1994 to discuss 
retirement planning. Sesame recommended she take out an FSAVC  plan, which  started on 
25 June 1994.
In 2018 Mrs W complained, via a representative, that the FSAVC  plan had been mis-sold. 
The representative said the plan wasnt suitable  for Mrs W and that she wasnt made aware 
of the financial  implications of choosing the FSAVC plan over her employers additional 
voluntary contribution (AVC)  plan, which wouldve had lower charges. The representative 
said added  years also wasnt  discussed  with Mrs W. It said she wouldve most likely  chosen 
this option given her attitude to risk (ATR) at the time. 
Sesame upheld the complaint, agreeing the in-house AVC and the comparable plan charges 
shouldve been  discussed with Mrs W at the point of sale.  It thought Mrs W wouldve most  
likely opted  to contribute to the in-house  AVC rather than purchasing added years. This was 
because she had a balanced ATR so could  take an element of risk and it thought  she was 
unlikely to opt for the more expensive  route  of added years. It offered Mrs W redress based 
on a charges comparison, in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidelines.
Mrs W referred her complaint to our service. The representative remained of the view that 
Mrs W was risk-averse and so wouldve  likely opted  to purchase added  years,  which 
provided a guaranteed return.  It said Mrs W could afford this as demonstrated by her 
decision to choose  increasing contributions towards the FSAVC.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he thought Sesame had already provided 
appropriate redress. He wasnt persuaded Mrs W wouldve  purchased added years  based 
on her circumstances  at the time of sale and her recorded ATR.
Mrs Ws representative didnt agree. He said Mrs W intended to stay in her role as a teacher 
until retirement and purchasing added years wouldve given  her almost the maximum 
benefit, which wouldve  been guaranteed with no risk attached. As no agreement  could be 
reached the complaint was passed  to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
I should first say that it isnt possible to know with certainty what  Mrs W wouldve done  at the 
time of sale had she been correctly advised.  Mrs W tells us now that she wouldnt have 
chosen to contribute to the in-house  AVC. But I have to make a decision based  on what  
I think is most likely,  according to the evidence available from the time and without using the 
benefit of hindsight. Having taken into account  everything provided, I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that Mrs W wouldve purchased added years rather than contributing  to her 
employers AVC. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN13502922Mrs Ws representative says that she was risk-averse and had no other  investments at the 
time. So, it follows that she wouldve most likely  opted to purchase  added years, knowing 
this produced a guaranteed amount  at retirement. 
Ive considered this and weighed it against the evidence from the time of sale, including the 
fact-find and the client agreement provided  by Sesame. 
The fact-find completed at the time of the sale showed Mrs W was able to describe her ATR 
as either  cautious,  balanced or adventurous. The fact-find records Mrs Ws ATR as 
balanced. Mrs W signed a copy of a client agreement on 20 May 1994. This included  a 
section entitled  guide to investment risk, explaining the types of investment associated  with 
the risk categories. Mrs Ws representative has pointed out that the balanced category 
included Building  Society  90 Day Accounts,  Guaranteed Bonds and Deposit funds. It says 
none of these products would usually be associated with a risk-taker. But the products were 
presented on a scale of 1  10. The balanced  category occupied  numbers 4  6; the 
products mentioned by the representative  were marked  against  number 4. Other  higher  risk 
products, including Personal Equity Plans, With-Profits funds and Unit Trusts were  marked  
against numbers  5 and 6. I would  expect a balanced  portfolio to have a range of lower and 
higher risk investments and I think Mrs W wouldve understood that to be the case based  on 
the information provided to her at the time. So, overall, Im persuaded Mrs W had a balanced 
ATR, meaning she was willing to take some  risk with her money.
The cost of added years of service  in Mrs Ws occupational pension  scheme was determined 
by the Government  Actuary, using conservative assumptions of likely future investment 
experience. This made them more expensive than if a less conservative  (or more optimistic) 
set of assumptions had been used. The aim was to make sure,  as far as possible,  that the 
cost of added years would  be met by the members. The intention was that this would mean 
there would be no shortfall  that would have to be picked  up by the employer.
The fact-find shows Mrs W joined her employer when she was 29 and had around  8 years 
pensionable service at the time of the advice in 1994. Assuming  Mrs W remained with her 
employer until retirement at age 60, she wouldve needed to purchase around 10 past added 
years. Based  on the cost of purchasing added years, and the amount Mrs W was able to 
commit at the time, she could have bought 7 full years. But Mrs W wouldnt have been able 
to alter her payments as purchasing added years didnt offer that kind of flexibility.
On realistic assumptions of future investment experience at the time of the advice, it would 
probably have  been  shown that the projected benefits from the money purchase approach  
(the in-house AVC) would be greater than the projected added  years benefits. And given 
Mrs W was willing to take some risk to achieve higher returns, I think its unlikely she 
wouldve chosen the more risk averse option of buying added years. Overall, if Mrs W had 
investigated her employers AVC, I think the potential growth of it wouldve looked far more 
attractive than that provided by the added years.
I appreciate Mrs Ws representatives comments that there wasnt  any reliable  way to 
compare projected  benefits  between the AVC and purchasing  added  years.  This is because 
the added  years benefits depended on Mrs Ws final salary,  which  couldnt have been  known  
at the time. But the cost of the added years wouldve  been known to Mrs W, and even 
though we now know she has progressed within her career and retired  on a larger salary, it 
couldnt be assumed  that that would  be the case. So, comparing this unknown  with the lower 
cost of the AVC and the potential for growth,  I still think Mrs W wouldve  opted for the AVC.
Ref: DRN13502923Given the above, Im not satisfied that Mrs W wouldve purchased added years within her 
employers pension scheme. I think she wouldve instead chosen  to contribute to her 
employers AVC.
Sesame has already carried out a redress calculation using the FCAs guidelines, which 
showed Mrs W had experienced a loss based  on the advice to take out an FSAVC. It offered 
Mrs W a lump sum of £4,581.66. As Sesame  has already made an offer in line with the 
FCAs guidance, it has done what I wouldve expected it to do. So, I wont  be asking it to do 
any more to put things right.
My final decision
Sesame Limited has made  an offer to pay Mrs W £4,581.66.
My decision  is that Sesame Limited should  pay Mrs W £4,581.66 if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1350292