K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that hes been charged  interest on his credit card balance even though 
HSBC UK Bank Plc had closed his account.
background 
Mr S had some banking facilities with HSBC.  In 2010, HSBC  notified Mr S that it would no 
longer be offering him banking  facilities and it was closing his accounts.  As Mr S still had an 
outstanding balance on his HSBC credit  card, he continued to make  payments. During  this 
time his account remained open, but his card was closed  so he was unable  to use his 
credit card.
Mr S made a payment each month,  but in May 2018 he went into branch to make the 
payment but wasnt able to. He called HSBC  and was told to wait for a letter and was 
assured he wouldnt  be charged a fee. However, he was then charged a late payment fee. 
Mr S complained about this. He also complained that he shouldnt be paying interest on his 
balance as HSBC  had closed the card  so he wasnt getting any benefits from it.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ss complaint.  He explained that he would only consider the 
interest and charges that had been  applied in the last six years  due to the time limits in 
which were able to investigate. Mr S agreed with this. Our adjudicator  felt the interest had 
been correctly  applied to the account.  Mr S had spent that money  using his credit card and 
so its reasonable  that he should pay the contractual interest  on that amount  when  repaying  
the balance. Our adjudicator did feel that one of the late payment charges should  be waived, 
as Mr S had tried to make the payment on time. HSBC agreed to do this, it also offered to 
waive another late payment fee, and pay Mr S £100 compensation for the trouble and upset  
that error  had caused him.
Mr S disagreed. He believes it was wrong for him to pay interest on something  he couldnt 
use. So, hed like the interest hes paid refunded.  He asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the offer HSBC 
has made is fair and reasonable,  so I wont be asking  it to do anything  more. Ill explain why.
Interest on the balance
Mr S feels  he shouldnt  have been  charged  interest  on his account after HSBC stopped 
offering him banking  facilities. I understand it must  have been frustrating for Mr S when 
HSBC decided it would close his accounts, but it was entitled to do this. When it notified 
Mr S of this in 2010, it said if Mr S had an outstanding balance, he would have to repay it. 
So, when Mr Ss credit card was closed,  the account remained open until the balance was 
repaid. I note Mr S made the minimum repayments  every month.  This is reflected in his 
statements. When Mr S used  his credit card, and spent the money, he knew he would have 
to pay the contractual rate of interest.  Mr S had the benefit of the credit  card by using it to 
purchase things, so its right that he repays the balance with the contractual interest applied.
Ref: DRN11486682I understand Mr S wasnt able to use his credit card after HSBC decided to close  it, but this 
doesnt mean interest shouldnt be applied to the balance.  Mr S would have always had to 
repay this debt, with the interest, whether  his card was kept open or not. As HSBC didnt act 
unfairly when closing his credit  card,  the interest has been applied fairly,  and in line with the 
terms that Mr S accepted  when he first opened his credit card account. So, I wont be asking 
HSBC to refund any of the interest it has applied to Mr Ss credit  card balance.
Late payment fees
Mr S made at least  his minimum  payment  each  month. In May 2018, he couldnt make this 
payment in branch and so he called.  He was told by HSBC to wait to receive a letter. In this 
call, HSBC confirmed  he wouldnt receive a late payment fee. However,  I can see that he 
did. This wasnt fair, but HSBC has since offered to refund this late payment fee, along with 
another that was charged. HSBC has also offered compensation  of £100 for this error. I can 
imagine it was very frustrating being  charged £12 when  he was told he wouldnt  be. But I 
think HSBCs  offer compensates Mr S fairly  for the trouble and upset this error caused. And 
the refund  ensures Mr S isnt out of pocket. So, I wont be asking  HSBC  to pay anything 
more than the offer its already made.
my final decision
My decision  is that the offer HSBC  UK Bank Plc has made is fair and reasonable. If it hasnt  
already done so, HSBC must  refund £24 in late payment fees to Mr S and pay him £100 
compensation as offered if he accepts this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1148668