K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc withdrew  the overdraft facility on his current/business 
account and reported adverse data on his credit  file. 
background
Mr S held an arranged  overdraft on his account  of £5000. In June 2017 Mr S called
Santander and asked for the overdraft to be increased temporally to £5270.  Santander
agreed to the increase but told Mr S that the increase would be removed shortly  after.  In July
2017 Mr S made an online payment of £300 to another account, which took him over his limit
and into an unauthorised overdraft. Mr S complained to Santander.  He said that the bank
shouldnt have allowed  the payment to go through.
After Mr S went  over his limit, Santander removed the overdraft  and asked Mr S to repay the
full amount. Mr S entered into a payment plan with Santander and started  to repay  the
overdraft. Mr S complained to Santander  as he said they were reporting that he was in a
payment plan on his credit file, but also that he was missing payments. And the way this was
being reported was different to the other  businesses  he was in arrangements  with.
Santander looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that Mr S was made
aware on a phone call with one of their advisers how the overdraft would work and what
would happen  if he broke the agreement by going  over the limit. They  said that the terms
and conditions of the account  say that they will make a requested payment, even if the funds
arent available,  and Mr S was aware of these  terms and what  his balance was when he
made the transfer.
It went on to say that they had a legal obligation to report Mr Ss payment history accurately
to credit reference agencies and this is what they have done. They expanded on the
reporting by saying that it reported that Mr S is in a plan and their reporting had stopped at
the point they would record a default.
As Mr S was unhappy  with Santanders  response, he brought the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that one part of it should be upheld.
She said that Santander had taken too long to notify Mr S that they had withdrawn his
overdraft facility  and for that they should  pay a distress and inconvenience payment. She
didnt think Santander  had acted unfairly  when they withdrew the overdraft facility, allowed
the payment to go through or how they had reported  the payment  plan.
Mr S remained unhappy,  so the complaint  has been  passed to me to issue a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 02 August 2019. This is what  I said - 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on the information Ive seen from
both parties, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why -
payment
Ref: DRN11270532Mr S has complained that the payment he made via his online banking  took him over the
authorised overdraft - and it shouldnt have been  allowed to go through. A bank can decide
to approve payments when there  isnt enough  available funds in a customers  account, and
this is outlined in Santanders terms and conditions.  Mr S also had the facility  in place to
check his balance before  he made the payment  So I dont think it was unfair for Santander
to allow  the payment to be made.
Details of this can be found in section 2B, 7.1 of the account terms and conditions  booklet.
overdraft withdrawal
In June 2017 Mr S called Santander and asked for a temporary increase on his overdraft.
This took the overall amount from the previous  limit of £5000  to £5270. He then made an
arrangement to reduce the temporary  increase by £135.00 on or around  1 July 2017  and
then be removed completely on or around  1 August. Ive listened to a call between  Mr S and
a Santander adviser  and the reduction  of the temporary overdraft  and the terms of being
added were explained clearly.
Mr S transferred £300.00  out of his account  on the 4th July 2017 bringing the balance on the
account to £5,269.30 overdrawn. The overdraft was then reduced by £135.00 as previously
discussed - meaning  Mr S was in excess of the agreed limit by £134.30. Due to this, on the
13th July 2017, the Santander Collections Team began the process  of removing the full
overdraft limit.
Having listened  to the call Mr S had with the Santander agent, it was clearly explained that if
Mr S broke the agreement  he had in place, by going over the agreed limit, Santander would
withdraw the whole  facility.
Our investigator said in her view that she felt Santander took too long to let Mr S know  his
overdraft had been removed  10 days.  Having looked at the information Santander has
supplied, the collections team didnt  start the process of removing the overdraft until
13 July 2017,  the day before Mr S called  Santander. A letter was then sent on 14 July from
the collections team to notify Mr S of the removal and to arrange payment of the outstanding
amount. I dont find Santander have made  an error here or delayed  in notifying Mr S of the
removal, so I wont  be instructing them to pay the £50 recommended by the investigator.
data reporting
Having looked  at how Santander recorded the payment arrangement to the credit reference
agencies, its in line what I would  expect to see. I understand Mr S has highlighted that other
organisations have reported their payment plans differently, but Im only looking at the
actions of Santander in this complaint  and whether it has acted fairly in the circumstances.
When Mr S defaulted on his overdraft and the facility was removed it effectively put him into
an unauthorised  debt  so although he then agreed  a payment plan with Santander, he still
owed an outstanding amount of money   and this is what has been  reported on his credit
file.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Santander accepted my provisional decision.  
Mr S said  
Ref: DRN11270533The complaint  was not just the removal of overdraft,  but also the handling  of the 
matter. 
Issues with Santanders customer service needs to be investigated. 
Santander did not act positive or sympathetically. 
Santander have  not acted fairly in the way they have  recorded payments. 
The data reported is in conflict with advice from the ICO, DPA Act 2018 and GDPR. 
my findings
Santander did not act positive or sympathetically  
Mr S has said that Santander  didnt  act positively or sympathetically towards his situation  
but I dont agree. Santander agreed  that they would take a reduced payment and put Mr S 
on a repayment  arrangement.  The amount of £50 was discussed and put forward  by Mr S 
and agreed by Santander. It also agreed not to default Mr Ss account, even though he had 
a large unauthorised outstanding balance. 
Santander have  not acted  fairly in the way they have recorded payments & The data 
reported is in conflict with advice from the ICO, DPA Act 2018 and GDPR. 
The guidance published  by the ICO states that temporary reduced  payments will still be 
reported to the Credit  reference agencies  and that depending on the period and amount of 
the arrangement, arrears  may continue to be reported. It goes on to say that following a 
satisfactory period  of payments,  a lender could agree to reset the score.
I also havent found any information in the DPA Act or under GDPR that would prevent 
Santander from reporting the information it has.
Im satisfied that the data Santander reported on Mr Ss credit  file was accurate  and fair in 
the circumstances. The agreement that Mr S had with the bank was on a temporary basis  
and as mentioned  above, Santander also agreed  not to default the account. 
Customer service  
Santander sent us a number of calls between Mr S and their advisors. On the whole from the 
calls I listened to, I havent found  any issues with the service  it provided - but there  are still a 
number of calls that couldnt be found due to the time thats passed.  
One of the calls I know Mr S is particularly  unhappy about is the call he made  on 02 
November 2017,  when he asked to speak  to a manager following a call with one of its 
advisors. Unfortunately, this is one of the calls that it has been unable  to find. 
Having said that, I can see that Santander  has referred to the call in its final response letter 
dated 05 March  2018 - and it felt that the call could have been handled better. As Im unable 
to listen to the call its difficult  for me to make  a finding on what  went wrong, but Im satisfied 
from Santanders response that the service could  have  been better. In light of this, 
Santander have  agreed to pay Mr S £50 to compensate  him. Im satisfied this is fair in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN11270534my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mr S £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1127053