K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
background
In March 2017 Mr J was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement  with 
BMWFS. The monthly  instalments were £799.99  over a term of four years.
Mr J experienced ongoing  mechanical  and electrical issued with the car which caused him to 
return the car to the dealership several times. Ive summarised the issues as follows:
April 2017. Misaligned headlights.  Front bumper  repaired.
April 2017. Issues with infotainment system.  Telematics control unit replaced.
November 2017. Rattle  issue repaired.  Oil seal for output flange  repaired. Centre 
console replaced. Telematics control  unit replaced  (second  time). Rear tail lights 
replaced. Software update. Insulated  headlining. Insulated pillar trim.
March 2018.  Rear tail lights replaced (second time). Window  regulator repaired. 
Amplifier repaired.
November 2018. Rattle  issue repaired (second  time). Apple Car Play issue. I Drive 
freezing. Brake light suppression filter replaced. Intermittent rev fluctuation. Rear 
lamp condensation. BMW logo badge replaced.
January 2019.  Rattle issue.  DAB losing signal. I Drive  freezing.  Rear lamp 
condensation (second time). Misfire from cold start. Wheel bolts corroded.
All repairs were carried out under warranty and at no cost to Mr J.
In May 2019  the car suffered a brake  system failure. A diagnostic check carried out by the 
recovery company identified that the I Drive system was freezing and there was a fault with 
the DSC  control  unit.
Mr J first complained to BMWFS in April 2018. In response, BMWFS  acknowledged  that Mr 
J had experienced  some  issues  with the audio control unit and a rattling  noise. It offered to 
refund two monthly payments  of £799.99,  which Mr J accepted.
Mr J continued to experience issues after this so he complained again.  He said the car had 
been returned to the supplying dealer six times  in two years for sixteen  different  issues.  He 
felt that hed given BMW ample opportunity  to fix the car but the repairs hadnt been  
successful and he wanted to reject  the car.
BMWFS rejected the complaint on the grounds that Mr J had previously accepted a refund 
as a resolution. Mr J wasnt happy  with this response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the dealership had been given multiple 
opportunities to repair the car but had not done  so and that because  of this Mr J could reject 
the car.
Mr J agreed with the investigators view but BMWFS didnt  respond so Ive been asked to 
make a final decision.
Ref: DRN11273672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres an implied term 
that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what  a  reasonable person 
would regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as price paid, fitness for 
purposes specified, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and 
durability.
I would expect a brand new car, such as the car supplied to Mr J, to be of a very high 
standard as compared to a used  car which I would expect to have  a degree of wear  and 
tear.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one opportunity to 
repair the car. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer  can reject the car.
In this case, Mr J experienced issues with (amongst other things)  the infotainment system 
within the first few weeks of supply.  I can see that this was repaired in April 2017  but by 
November 2017  he was experiencing the same  issues  and the infotainment system was 
replaced again. This suggests to me that the infotainment system was faulty at the point of 
supply and that the attempt to repair it in April 2017 wasnt  successful. This gives  grounds 
for Mr J to reject the car.
There are a number of other issues which Mr J experienced which  were  repaired within  the 
first 6 months.  The issues are mainly  electrical  ones,  which isnt something I think  can be put 
down to wear and tear, taking into account  that this was a brand new car at the point of 
supply. I dont think a reasonable  person would expect to experience  so many electrical 
issues with a brand new car. And again, I can see examples of attempts at repair  being  
unsuccessful. For instance, the rear tail lights were  replaced in November 2017 only to 
require further  repair in March 2018. 
There are further issues with the car relating to the I Drive freezing and the Apple Car Play 
not working which the business has said are known issues. The I Drive and the Apple Play 
feature are part of the cars infotainment  system, which has already been replaced  twice. It 
appears to me that repeated attempts to repair this have been unsuccessful. Mr J has 
provided video  evidence showing the ongoing issues with the system. Based on this, Im 
satisfied that the attempts  at repair have been  unsuccessful and I dont  think  the business 
should be given  any more opportunities at repair. 
Mr J has explained that hes still experiencing issues with the rear tail lights  steaming up. 
Hes provided photo evidence of this. I can see that the rear tail lights  were replaced in 
November 2017  and again  in March 2018.  Based on what  Ive seen, I conclude that the 
repairs have been  unsuccessful. I dont  agree  with the business  when it says that the tail 
lights are within tolerance. If this was the case,  then repairs wouldnt have been attempted 
twice before.
Ive taken into account what BMWFS has said about  previously accepting  a refund in 
resolution of his complaint. However, I dont think Mr J anticipated when  he accepted the 
refund, that he would experience further  and ongoing issues with the car. He had every  
Ref: DRN11273673expectation that the repairs would  be successful. In the event they werent.  Further, the 
repairs carried out in March 2018 (when  the refund was offered) related to the rear tail lights, 
the window regulator and the amplifier. Even  if Mr J compromised his complaint in relation to 
those issues, Im satisfied that there are other issues hes experienced both before  and since  
then which  would warrant him bringing  a further  complaint.
In relation to BMWFSs comments that the car has been modified, I understand that these 
are external  modifications  to the spoiler  and wing mirrors. I havent  seen anything to suggest  
that these modifications  are related  to the electrical issues  which  Mr J has experienced.
Taking all of the available evidence into consideration,  Im of the view that the car had faults 
at the point of supply.  The dealership has had more  than one opportunity to repair  these and 
the repairs have  been unsuccessful in relation  to the infotainment system and the rear tail 
lights. I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and because  the 
attempt at repair was unsuccessful Im of the view that Mr J should be allowed to reject  the 
car.
In considering redress, Ive taken  account of the fact that Mr J has had impaired use of the 
car for the majority of the time hes been  in possession of it. I think Mr J should receive a 
percentage of his monthly payments back to reflect his loss of enjoyment.  Given that Mr J 
accepted a refund of two instalments in April 2018,  I think the percentage refund should run 
from May 2018 onwards.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr J.
Refund Mr Js deposit together  with simple interest of 8% per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund 10% of Mr Js monthly  payments from May 2018 to date
Pay £250 compensation for trouble and upset
Remove any adverse  information relating to the agreement from Mr Js credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1127367