K820x#14complaint
Ms H is unhappy that £600 was debited from her Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post 
Office Money) current  account  without her authorisation.
background
Ms H has a current account with Post Office  Money  and on 28 February 2018 a £600 
payment was taken  from the account  and paid to a third party. When  Ms H phoned the bank  
a couple of weeks later - Ms H says it was 11 March, Post Office Money says it was 
12 March  to check  the balance  of her account she queried the fact the balance was lower 
than she expected. When the bank  went through the list of account transactions Ms H said 
she didnt authorise  the £600 debit, so Post Office Money  said it would carry out an 
investigation.
On 16 March Post Office  Money completed its investigation and, satisfied Ms H hadnt  
authorised the payment, it refunded the money  to her account. 
Whilst the investigation was ongoing  a direct debit that was due to be paid from the account 
couldnt be made due to insufficient funds being available.  Ms H was aware  this was going to 
happen and chose to make the payment due directly to the other business concerned rather 
than simply pay that money into her Post Office Money current  account so the direct debit 
would be paid as normal. Because  the direct  debit wasnt paid Post Office Money made  a 
£15 charge.
Post Office  Money agreed to refund  the £15 charge and offered £100 compensation. Our 
investigator thought  that was a fair resolution.  Ms H didnt agree  and so itd been passed  to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I trust Ms H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment on any specific  point  its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to 
reach the right outcome.  
Whilst Ms Hs complaint originally also encompassed some  other  issues  relating to a 
standing order on her account, she accepted our adjudicators findings on that and said she 
only wanted the £600 debit issue reviewed again.  For this reason I wont go into any detail 
about the other issue in this decision, other  than to say Im satisfied the compensation 
offered by Post Office  Money is fair in the circumstances  and so I wouldnt  make any other 
order or award for that.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple  human  error that meant £600  was debited from Ms Hs 
account that shouldnt have been.  Once  Ms H disputed  the debit, Post Office Money quickly  
investigated the matter  which it had to do so it could be satisfied Ms H hadnt authorised 
the payment  and refunded the sum within five days. The only financial loss Ms H incurred  
Ref: DRN19328122due to the incorrect debit was a £15 fee for an unpaid direct debit and Post Office Money 
has already said it will refund that to her account.  So Ms H isnt out of pocket due to this. 
Post Office  Money offered  £100 compensation. Ms H says she wants  more because  she got 
£100 for the other  error (that she didnt want to appeal) and she thinks  this is a more serious 
error so should mean a higher level of compensation. She also asked why the banks 
systems are not programmed  to automatically cancel a failed direct debit charge rather than 
it being charged and then needing to be refunded.
Its not the role of this service to fine or punish businesses,  and our awards of compensation 
arent punitive. Ms H has talked of unwanted  consequences but the only consequence was 
the unpaid direct debit and Post Office  Money has said it will refund the fee charged for that. 
Whilst I acknowledge Ms H made  various phone calls to Post Office Money those werent  
needed as until it completed its investigation  there  was nothing it could tell her. As soon as 
the investigation was complete the £600 debit was refunded. Having considered  everything  
Im satisfied the £100 offer made  by Post Office  Money is fair in the circumstances, and no 
higher award  is warranted. 
Were not the regulator  thats the Financial  Conduct Authority  so I cant  comment on Post 
Office Moneys processes  such as why its systems didnt stop the failed direct debit charge, 
rather than it being charged and then refunded and why it didnt automatically  write to tell her 
when the debit was refunded.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider  the sums already offered by Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc are fair.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my 
decision before  6 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1932812