K820x#14complaint
Mrs I complained that when she looks at her National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest for 
short) account  online  she sometimes  sees her husbands details. She also complains that 
she tried to cancel her debit card but was unsuccessful in doing so in two separate  attempts.
background
Mrs I says that NatWest has treated her unfairly  because it should respect her confidentiality 
during her online interactions  with it. Shes  also concerned that even  though she tried to 
cancel her card on two separate occasions when the Police returned  her card to her it still 
worked.
NatWest says its treated  her fairly.  It says its offered her £150 for not dealing  with her 
request to cancel her cards as well as it could have  done. It also says it doesnt think its 
done anything  wrong with regard to her online banking.
Mrs I complained to NatWest and it said it treated her fairly. Mrs I disagrees. The adjudicator 
at this service felt that the offer and what NatWest  has said about her online banking issues  
that overall NatWest  had treated her fairly.  As Mrs I remains  unhappy  this complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint .
Firstly I think it worth  noting  that Mrs I has spent a substantial amount of time raising her 
concerns about  this matter. And her representative clearly believes NatWest  has something 
to hide and both the representative and Mrs I are clearly vexed by what  has happened.  
However there is no persuasive evidence that Mrs I has lost out financially due to the 
problems with cancelling her card or the issues with her logging onto the systems. There is 
no evidence of any money being stolen  from her accounts or her data being available  
outside of her financial relationships with the bank. So although these matters are clearly 
important there isnt any substantial financial loss suffered  here. As a consequence any 
award will be at the lower end.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons:
Im not persuaded NatWest has done  anything wrong with regard to its online systems  in 
Mrs Is case. I can see from the banks internal records that Mrs I tried to cancel her card 
having logged  in utilising her husbands unique identification number. This number is only 
used internally by NatWest to identify  its customers and isnt generally  available to its 
customers. I appreciate  Mrs I contends this point strongly. However  I prefer  the evidence  
created automatically  on NatWests systems  over what Mrs I has said in retrospect. 
NatWest has said that at the time in question  it didnt have a Mobile App registered against 
the mobile phone  number  it has on its systems for Mrs I. But it points to her husbands 
comments about her entering  her details on a mobile app. So it has suggested that she must 
have tried to use her husbands mobile application  on his mobile  phone  to access  her 
account (which she isnt allowed to do). And it says thats potentially  how her request to 
Ref: DRN13208772cancel her card was linked to her husbands  unique  identification  number.  These arguments 
arent unreasonable in my opinion.
Mrs I points to a welcome message which isnt to her name  and says she cant  have  entered  
this message so it must be a fault with the application.  However  NatWest  has persuasively 
shown that the welcome message can be changed at any time by the user through  the 
settings of the application. So I dont  think what Mrs I says here is persuasive.
Mrs I points to video  shes submitted of using the application. However this doesnt include  
the logging on process to the application.  So it is impossible to tell whether  its being  logged 
onto correctly, which is key to this complaint around confidentiality. I appreciate Mrs I doesnt 
want to video the keying in of her codes to enter  her application  for security reasons. 
However considering  that this is crucial to support her complaint and as there is evidence of 
cross usage of unique  identification numbers it is clearly possible that either both Mrs I and 
her husband  are trying to use the same  application  on the same phone-which they arent 
allowed to do. So I dont consider the video is persuasive of any significant  fault by NatWest.
NatWest has accepted it should have  done more when it was on notice that Mrs I had lost 
her card. It has recognised this and offered  £150.  Considering Mrs I has regained her card 
via the police and there  hasnt been any unauthorised  usage  of the card there isnt any 
financial loss here. So all things considered  I think the £150 is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances including  the issue of the email NatWest said it sent but which transpired not 
to have been sent. Mrs I also points to the time and effort going to the police station to 
collect the lost card.  However NatWest isnt responsible for either losing the card or how the 
Police force works. 
I dont think Mrs Is comments are persuasive. She hasnt been able to demonstrate any 
specific instances of failings by NatWest other than those it has already accepted.  I cant see 
any significant mistake that NatWest  has made.  So all in all Im not persuaded she has been 
treated unfairly  by NatWest in the circumstances. So, in short, this complaint does not 
succeed. I appreciate  this will be a disappointment to Mrs I. I am empathetic towards  her 
situation and glad she takes  her banking security so seriously. But I dont think NatWest  has 
done anything  sufficiently wrong  that warrants me making it do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc. Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1320877