K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited  (trading as Legal & General) did not pay 
him the full amount he was insured for on his payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
Fairmead says Mr B was over-insured and could never claim the full amount. It has instead 
repaid him the premiums  he overpaid. 
background 
Mr B took out a PPI policy in 2004. At the time the policy benefit was set at £1,625.  The 
policy stated that the maximum benefit was the mortgage repayment  and associated 
insurances plus 25%.
In 2017 Mr B made a claim on the policy. The policy paid out £1,242 per month for 12 
months.
Mr B complained the policy  had not paid the full amount  of £1,625  per month.  
Fairmead said it had paid the correct maximum amount under the policy terms and 
conditions. But it agreed to refund premiums Mr B had overpaid since  2015.  It paid Mr B 
£772.90.
In 2019 Fairmead  agreed to pay a further  £1,672.92 for all the overpaid premiums.
Mr B asked this service to step in. He feels  Fairmead should  have paid him £1,625  per 
month and not £1,242. So Mr B says Fairmead  should have paid him an additional £4,596 
over the 12 months  of his claim.
Our adjudicator thought Fairmead had acted correctly in paying Mr B the maximum benefit  
as set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. The adjudicator also thought Fairmead 
was correct to refund  the overpaid premiums. But the adjudicator  thought Fairmead should 
also have added compensatory interest to the overpaid premiums.  They  asked Fairmead to 
calculate and pay Mr B 8% simple  interest on all the overpayments, and Fairmead  agreed  to 
this. 
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators findings,  so the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B believes he should  have been paid a monthly benefit of £1,625 for 12 months  instead  
of the £1,242 he received.  
Ive thought about this, but the terms and conditions of the policy set out the maximum policy  
benefit which in Mr Bs case was £1,242. He could not have received £1,625 per month as 
this would be above the maximum monthly  benefit.  So, I think  Mr B received the correct  
amount when he made his claim.  
Ref: DRN17929232However, Mr B paid higher premiums for a benefit  of £1,625 so he should have received a 
refund for the extra he paid. I can see Fairmead  has already refunded the extra  he paid and I 
think that is fair.
But Mr B has been  out of pocket for the amount he overpaid each month.  So he should  be 
compensated for this. I can see our adjudicator asked Fairmead to pay Mr B interest  
calculated at 8% simple on the amount  Mr B overpaid. And Fairmead has agreed to this. 
Taking everything into account  I think this is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
putting things right
Mr B has been out of pocket for the extra amount he paid each month. Fairmead needs to 
put this right so it should.
Calculate the overpayment Mr B paid each month for the policy benefit of £1,625  rather than 
£1,242.
Calculate and pay simple  interest on each overpayment from when Mr B paid it until he gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Fairmead to take off tax from this interest. Fairmead  
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr B received the correct amount for his claim under the policy  
terms and conditions.
Fairmead Insurance Limited has already repaid to Mr B the overpayments he made because 
the policy benefit was set at a higher amount than the terms and conditions allowed Mr B to 
claim. I think  that is fair.
I direct  Fairmead Insurance Limited to work out and pay Mr B compensatory  interest for the 
time he has been out of pocket. It should  calculate and pay compensatory interest  on each 
overpayment as Ive set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1792923