K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to Mrs S. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2003 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs S was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.   
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs S has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Mrs S appears to have filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a 
choice, which you make  by signing in a box.
 It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs Ss individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs S to decide  whether it was suitable.
 However AXA did need to give Mrs S clear and fair information, so she could make  an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Mrs S. So Ive thought about  whether  better  information  is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, even if shed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. The PPI would  have paid out if she was unable to work  
through sickness  and it appears  she didnt have employer  sick pay entitlement. Also 
it seems she didnt  have definite alternative means to pay her living expenses and 
credit account for long,  if she lost her income;  and even  if she did, she could have kept 
that in reserve  for longer. Also it doesnt  look like shed have been affected by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have  seemed  
potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN12390882Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1239088