K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Startline Motor Finance Limited  (SMF) wouldnt pay for a repair to a car 
he bought under a hire purchase agreement.
background
In July 2017 Mr L bought  a second  hand  car which was some seven years old and had done  
almost 74,000 miles. Mr L says that he took it back to the dealer in October  2017  as he was 
experiencing problems with the car misfiring.  It carried out a diagnostic test but was unable 
to replicate the problem.
Mr L said the issue was intermittent, but the problem persisted and in January 2018 he took 
it back to the dealer  and again it was unable to replicate the problem. He says he carried on 
driving the car as he couldnt afford to have  it dealt with elsewhere. As the problem was 
worsening he arranged  to have an AA approved garage inspect the car. It identified that the 
'number 4 injector' was faulty and needed repairing. The total cost for repairs was quoted at 
£556.90.
Mr L asked SMF to reimburse the cost, but it declined and said there was no evidence to 
show the fault was present when he bought the car. It also pointed out the fault hadnt been 
reported until six months after the purchase and Mr L had done over 8,000  miles.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that The Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 says that a car must  be of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose  and as 
described. If a fault occurs within the first six months  of purchase, it's for the finance  provider  
to prove  the fault wasn't present when  the car was purchased. If it's found  that there was a 
fault with the car when it was sold, the consumer is entitled to ask for a repair or replacement 
or rejection of the car.
She said that after taking account  of all the information she believed there was a pre-existing 
fault with the car at the time of purchase. She said Mr L had twice  complained  about the car 
misfiring and the engine  management light coming on, both within  six months of purchase. 
She accepted that he complained to the dealer but this couldnt  be disregarded just because  
he didn't contact SMF directly.
Although the dealer couldnt  find any fault after conducting diagnostic tests  it was later 
identified by a separate  garage. The fault it identified was the same one Mr L had 
complained about originally.  
She was satisfied that the fault was developing at the time of purchase and it was up to SMF 
to prove  otherwise. She suggested SMF repair the injector on the car as per the job sheet 
dated 25 May 2018; and reimburse Mr L for the costs of obtaining the inspection 
reports/checks subject  to him providing proof of receipts.
Mr L agreed, but SMF didnt. It said that there  was no evidence to support  the investigators 
theory and it said that it couldnt make decisions on assumptions. It accepted a vehicle 
should be fit for purpose at sale but Mr L only brought his concerns to it after six months  and 
having covered  over 12,000 miles. It thought it more prudent  to conclude  that on the balance 
of probability the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN16907252As the dealer couldnt find any fault with the vehicle and Mr L hadnt provided any evidence 
that these faults  were  at point of sale, which as per the CRA legislation, he is required to 
provide, it believed the complaint should  be rejected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
SMF is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
The Consumer Rights Act says that if the consumer demonstrates that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality in the first six months after purchase then broadly speaking the onus is 
on the supplier to show that the goods  did actually conform  to the contract  when supplied.  I 
am satisfied  from the evidence that Mr L was having  problems  with the car from about two 
months of ownership and I have seen nothing that allows me to conclude  that SMF has 
shown the fault wasnt  present at the point of sale.
I appreciate that the dealer couldnt  find the fault,  but that doesnt mean it wasnt present. If 
Mr L had only taken  it back once  I might have reached a different  conclusion, but the 
problem was such that he took it back a second time. When he could afford it he sought an 
independent inspection which identified the fault.  I believe  it quite  clear  that on the balance 
of probability that the fault was, more likely than not, present at the point of sale and so Mr L 
should not have to pay to have it rectified.  
Ref: DRN16907253my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Startline Motor Finance  Limited to 
arrange and pay for the repair the injector  on the car as per the job sheet dated 25 May 
2018; and reimburse  Mr L for the costs  of obtaining  the inspection reports/checks  subject to 
him providing proof of receipts. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before  1 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1690725