K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited terminated his agreement when 
he missed some of his monthly  payments.
background
In February 2018  Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with BMWFS.
BMWFS requested a payment in March 2018  but the direct debit was rejected. It tried to 
contact Mr K and sent an arrears letter.
Mr K made a manual card payment in April 2018 and a direct  debit payment in May 2018.  
He missed his payment  in June 2018  but made a manual card payment in July 2018.
BMWFS wrote to Mr K in August 2018 advising him that there  were  arrears on the account  
as a result  of the missed payments. Mr K didnt respond  and BMWFS sent a further arrears 
letter.
BMWFS attempted to contact Mr K but was unable to do so. It sent a default notice in 
October 2018 and terminated the agreement shortly afterwards.
Mr K contacted BMWFS.  He wasnt happy  that the agreement had been terminated.  He said 
he hadnt received  the arrears letters because he had changed address. He said he wanted 
to try and pay off the arrears and make  further payments under the agreement.
BMWFS said it was Mr Ks responsibility  to update his contact details. It said it couldnt 
reinstate the agreement  once it had been  terminated  and told Mr K it would give him some  
extra time to settle  the agreement otherwise it would arrange to collect  the car.
Mr K wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt that BMWFS had taken reasonable 
steps to try and contact  Mr K before it terminated the agreement.
Mr K didnt agree. He said hed changed  address and hadnt  been made aware  of the 
arrears letters.
Since then,  Mr K has told this service  that he has handed the car back to BMWFS.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the payment history  of the account  that Mr K missed payments in March 2018 
and June 2018. The last payment he made was in July 2018.  Its not clear  why Mr K missed 
these payments. Hes recently said that he handed  the car back  because he couldnt afford 
the payments.  I dont  know whether  Mr K was unable to afford the car from the start of the 
agreement or whether  his circumstances changed.
Ref: DRN14051962I can see that when  Mr K missed his first payment in March  2018, BMWFS sent him an 
arrears letter. The letter included advice on where  Mr K could seek help if he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. When a consumer  is experiencing financial difficulties, I 
would expect a lender  to respond positively  and sympathetically. I think  it was reasonable for 
BMWFS to write to Mr K and advise him where he could seek help.
When Mr Ks payments stopped in July 2018, I can see that BMWFS  made several attempts 
to contact him. But Mr K didnt respond to any letters or calls.  I appreciate  that Mr K has said 
he wasnt living at home during  this time but its up to Mr K to make sure he updates his 
contact details with BMWFS. I cant see that he did this. So I dont think BMWFS did 
anything wrong  in trying to contact Mr K at the address it held for him.
I appreciate that Mr K feels it was unfair of BMWFS to terminate the agreement.  But I think  
BMWFS made reasonable  attempts  to contact Mr K before it took this action. If Mr K had 
responded to the letter  sand calls, it mightve  been possible for him to reach  an arrangement  
to pay off the arrears.  But in the absence of any response from Mr K, I dont think  BMWFS  
acted unreasonably in terminating  the agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1405196