K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about MCE Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy with the value it has 
placed on his bike following  a claim under his motorcycle insurance policy.
background 
Mr C bought a brand  new bike in June 2018.  Unfortunately it was stolen within a few days  of 
buying it having only done a few miles.  MCE  dealt with the claim and paid Mr C the market  value of 
his bike. But as this was about £1000  less than he paid of it Mr C wasnt  happy.  
So he complained to MCE and then this service. Our adjudicator  looked  into things for him and 
upheld his complaint. She didnt think that MCEs offer was fair. This was because  it had only been 
able to rely on one valuation  guide  in forming its view and so she felt that the fairest thing to do 
was to consider  the bikes value from the time it was first purchased, three  days  before the theft.
As MCE  didnt agree  the matter has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so I think that the complaint should be upheld. 
And Id like to explain  why.
Although I can understand MCEs position,  and I dont think  that it has acted unreasonably, but its 
valuation of Mr Cs bike creates  an unfair  outcome in my view.
Mr C bought his bike just a couple of days before it was stolen. And hed hardly done any miles on 
the bike at the time of theft.  
I can see that MCE has tried to act reasonably here in how it has valued the bike. But it has only 
been able to provide a valuation from one guide  when ordinarily it would expect to rely on a few. I 
cant hold MCE responsible for the guides not providing valuations  but I expect this is because the 
bike is so new.
So, the strongest  evidence  we have in relation to the bikes valuation  is from the time Mr C 
purchased it. As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for MCE to pay Mr C the purchase  price of his motorcycle.  
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr C the value he paid for the bike (£8,599) less his excess. And 8% 
simple interest from the time of the theft to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject 
my decision  before 2 February 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1445598