K821x#15Complaint
Mr B has raised a complaint on behalf  of the estate  of Mrs B about  the way the termination  
of Mrs Bs hire purchase agreement was dealt with by BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited 
(trading as MINI Financial Services) (BMWFS).
Background
Mrs B entered a 48 month  agreement  with BMWFS in March 2018 to acquire a new car. 
Sadly, she passed away in October 2018.  BMWFS was contacted about Mrs Bs death and 
a copy of the will was provided. Mr B says he was told he needed to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. This resulted in an outstanding balance of over £8,300 to pay which  Mr B says 
he needed to borrow to settle.
Mr B says that the way the agreement termination  was handled was disrespectful and 
unprofessional. 
BMWFS sent final response letters in February  2019. It said that it was instructed to deal 
with the solicitor acting  for Mrs Bs estate  regarding the agreement  and that it sent the 
options to her. It said the options  included the car being returned  under Voluntary 
Termination (VT), the agreement being settled in full or transferred to a third party. It said the 
solicitor confirmed the car should  be returned under  VT and it acted on this instruction. It 
apologised for any upset it caused through  this process.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He thought  that although BMWFS  had followed its 
processes correctly in terms of the agreement, it should have offered the option of voluntary 
surrender (VS) to the estate when considering the options for returning the car. He accepted 
that VS wasnt directed  under the regulations, but said it was an industry wide accepted 
option and given the age and mileage of the car it was something that should have been 
offered. He noted  the car had been sold for £17,500. He didnt think BMWFS did anything  
wrong by applying a last monthly rental on 5 November as the car remained on the 
possession of the estate.
Our investigator noted the comments Mr B had made regarding  the service  he had received 
and understood  how distressing the issue must  have been. He explained this service cant  
award compensation to the estate  for poor customer service, but he noted the issues to 
BMWFS and thought  it might consider a goodwill gesture.
BMWFS didnt accept our investigators view. It said that VS wasnt part of its process and 
wasnt a requirement  under the rules or regulations. It said it presented  the options available  
to Mr Bs solicitor and was told to proceed with a VT. It didnt  accept that VS needed to be 
included in these.  It did offer to pay Mr B £100  compensation for the upset  he had been 
caused.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering a complaint, I take into 
account all relevant rules  and regulations  however my decision is based  on what  I consider 
fair and reasonable given the individual circumstances of the complaint.
Ref: DRN15048092In this case Mrs B had acquired a new car through a hire purchase  agreement in March  
2018. Sadly, she passed away  in October  2018  and so only had use of the car for a few 
months. I understand  the car had only been driven around 1,700 miles.  
I accept that BMWFS provided the solicitor acting for Mrs Bs estate with the options  
available including  VT, settling the agreement to transferring it to a third party, however 
when asked about the options available I think it would have been fair to also explain the 
option of VS and how this would work  compared to the other options available.
When a car is returned under VS the car is sold and the proceeds used to reduce the 
outstanding balance. There can be a negative impact on the consumers credit  file but as 
Mrs B has passed away this wasnt relevant in this case. Mrs Bs car was only a few months 
old and had a low mileage  so a relatively high sales price could be expected. In contrast, as 
she had only been in the agreement for a few months there was a significant amount still 
needing to be paid under  VT. Given this I find it would have been fair to provide Mrs Bs 
estate with the options it did as well as the option  to VS.
I do not have all the information  required to be able to say what  the outcome of VS would be, 
but the total amount  payable under  the agreement was £30,022. BMWFS said in its 
termination options letter that Mrs B had paid £6,678 and Mrs Bs estate was then required 
to pay a further £8,333 to meet the 50% required under the VT terms. The car was sold for 
£17,500. These three amounts  total over £32,500.
In summary,  while I note BMWFS provided the options required to the estate of Mrs B, I 
think that given  the age and mileage of the car and how long Mrs B had been in the 
agreement it should also have included the option  of VS. I think  that had this been explained 
there is a reasonable chance  this option would have  been taken by the estate of Mrs B. 
Therefore, I uphold this complaint.
Our investigator explained that we cannot  award  compensation for the distress caused  in 
dealing with the return of the car as the complainant in this case is the estate of Mrs B 
although I note BMWFS  did provide Mr B with an offer of £100  compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial  Services  (GB) Limited  
(trading as MINI Financial Services) should  put the estate back in the position it wouldve 
been in had the VS option  been offered and accepted. 
BMWFS should calculate how much the estate paid towards the agreement (including  the 
amount paid to VT the agreement)  and apply the sale proceeds  (£17,500) towards the 
outstanding balance. If this total is more than would have been due had VS taken place it 
should refund the excess along with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement. 
If after recalculating  - BMWFS find that the estate wouldve  in fact owed more under  a VS, it 
should not seek to recover this.
If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell the estate  of Mrs B how 
much its taken off. It should also give the estate of Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if asked 
for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN15048093Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B on behalf of the 
estate of Mrs B to accept  or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1504809