K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W submitted  a buildings insurance claim to Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance  
Company Limited  (LV)  for damage to their roof following  a storm. This was declined due to 
wear and tear. 
background
Mr and Mrs W say that following a storm in February 2019,  they submitted a claim to LV for 
damage to their roof. This was declined by LV due to wear and tear. 
An assessor  appointed  by LV went to see the roof. Mr and Mrs W say that even  though the 
assessor had ladders  with him, he didnt  go up to the roof to inspect it despite it being a high 
roof, but instead he took photos using his mobile phone from street level which is around 50 
to 60 feet away. Mr and Mrs W then had their own roofer assess the tiles and produce a 
report which was sent to the assessor  who maintained his opinion that the damage is not 
covered as it results  from wear  and tear. LV accepts there were  storm conditions  but says 
that the root cause is wear  and tear. 
An adjudicator looked into the complaint. They agreed with LVs response and didnt uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  The adjudicator  felt that the photographs taken by the assessor 
were sufficient to make  an assessment  on. He also felt that both reports supported a 
conclusion that the mortar  had failed. 
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy and want an ombudsman to have  a look at things again. They 
say that what is shown on the mortar  in the photos is moss  on the roof which  is the same on 
all the properties.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr and Mrs W that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said and 
provided. But having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why in 
more detail.
When this service investigates storm complaints, there are three  main  issues  we consider. 
They are:
On the balance of evidence,  do we agree  that storm conditions occurred on or 
around the date the damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed  for consistent with what we generally  see as storm damage?
Were storm  conditions the main  cause of the damage? It could be that other factors  
were involved  and the damage might have occurred without  the storm.
Unless the answer to all three of these questions is yes, its unlikely that the complaint would 
be upheld.
LV doesnt  dispute that there was a storm on the loss date. It says a weather  report shows 
that there  were winds of 57 mph.
Ref: DRN13981722In order to decide whether the damage  to Mr and Mrs Ws roof is consistent with storm 
damage, Ive looked at the assessors report and the roofers  report.  The assessor said that 
whilst strong  winds  can cause ridge  tiles to become  detached, the tiles would usually blow 
off completely rather than slip. He said he would have expected to see disturbance to the 
surrounding tiles if the ridge  tiles had been dislodged by a storm. 
The roofers  report also says that the ridge  tiles have slipped rather  than lifted. 
LV has said that whilst it accepts that storms can cause damage  to roof tiles, in this case the 
fact that the tiles have slipped rather than blown off, and the fact that none  of the 
surrounding tiles have been  disturbed  suggests that the storm was a contributing factor  but 
not the main cause  of the damage. Based  on what both of the reports  say, Im minded to 
agree with LV.
Ive thought about the cause of the damage. The assessors report says the mortar has failed 
and relies on photos of the roof which he says show the mortar  in poor condition. He says 
the reason for the mortar failing is probably due to the mix being too weak.  I think the 
approach taken by the assessor  is reasonable based on the evidence Ive seen.
The roofers  report says that all of the ridge  tiles need to be re-bedded and pointed off. Ive 
taken into account  what Mr and Mrs W have said about the mortar  being  damaged  after the 
ridge tiles had slipped but I havent seen any photos  of the roof before the storm so I cant 
safely conclude that this was the case.
Ive also taken into account what Mr and Mrs W have said about the photos showing  moss 
on the roof rather than failed mortar.  Even though the photos  have  been  taken from ground 
level, they are good images and I can see the ridge tiles clearly.  I think  the material under 
the tiles looks  more like mortar than moss.  But even if Im wrong  about  that, I still think  that 
the mortar  is failing  because both the assessor  and the roofer have made  comments  which  
support this. In particular,  I dont think the roofer would have recommended lifting  and re-
bedding all of the ridge tiles (rather than just those which slipped) if there wasnt a problem  
with the mortar.
On balance, I think the nature of the damage  is consistent with failed mortar causing the 
ridge tiles to slip. This is a wear  and tear issue which has developed over time and which 
was exacerbated  by the storm. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think it was unreasonable  for LV to decline the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020. 
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1398172