K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains Instant Cash Loans  Limited (The Money Shop) lent him money he couldnt 
afford to repay.
background
Mr K took out an instalment loan with The Money  Shop.  He took out this loan on 
12 February 2018 for £600 and was required to repay this amount over 2 instalment  
amounts of £373.64  and £373.63. When Mr K through his representative, brought  his 
complaint to us there was a balance  to pay on his loan and this is still outstanding.
Mr Ks representative says that Mr K was vulnerable and The Money Shop should have 
picked up on this and not lent him money.  When Mr K complained  to The Money Shop about 
this, it didnt agree. It says its staff didnt pick up on any vulnerability from Mr K and that their 
staff were entitled to rely on the information Mr K gave about his income and outgoings, and 
when it did so it saw that the loan was affordable for him. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ks complaint not be upheld. She says The Money  
Shop carried  out proportionate checks for the loan and so it didnt do anything  wrong.
Mr K through his representative  disagreed with the adjudicators view. As both parties are 
still not in agreement, the complaint has come to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain  why.
The Money Shop was required to make sure Mr K could repay any money  that it lent to him. 
Any checks  had to be proportionate to things  such  as the amount of the loan, the 
repayments and any borrowing  history.  But there wasnt a set list of checks  it had to carry 
out.
Mr Ks loan was for £600 to be repaid in 2 instalments. The Money Shop says he told it he 
was earning £1300 and declared expenditure of £250. I can see the monthly repayment was 
affordable compared  to Mr Ks self-declared disposable income and this was his first loan 
with The Money  Shop. For these reasons I think it went  far enough with the checks it has 
showed us it did carry out. So taking into consideration all that I have already mentioned,  I 
am satisfied  The Money Shop carried out proportionate checks  when it agreed to lend him 
money.
Mr K, through his representative,  has said that due to his circumstances at the time, The 
Money Shop shouldnt  have lent him the money. He says he was unemployed and was 
vulnerable at the time and this should  have been  picked up by staff at The Money  Shop and 
they shouldnt  have lent to him. 
This was the first time that staff from The Money  Shop would have  met and discussed a loan 
with Mr K. So I think after considering everything  that Mr Ks representative has said, I think 
The Money Shop was entitled to rely on the information Mr K gave it at this point (with  it 
being his first loan). And overall, Im not satisfied after reading both parties  account  of what  
Ref: DRN14973922happened, that there was anything which  should  have made it consider at this point that he 
wouldnt be able to afford to repay the loan,  or which ought to have  prompted  it to carry out 
more detailed checks. 
In conclusion, although I acknowledge what Mr Ks representative has said,  I consider on 
balance the affordability checks that The Money Shop made on Mr Ks loan were 
proportionate and sufficient. His repayments were well within  what  Mr K said his stated 
disposable income was. So I cant say now that it was wrong for The Money Shop to give 
this loan to Mr K. And so I cant require it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1497392