K821x#15complaint
Mr M was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. He instructed Kindertons Ltd, trading 
as Kia Accident  AfterCare, to manage the repairs to his car.
background
Mr M is unhappy  with the repairs to his car. The car was returned to him in August 2018 and, 
about a month later,  he took his car to a garage  as the fuel gauge  was sticking. He was told 
that this was likely to be the result of the fuel tank being damaged when his car was 
recovered. Mr M complained to Kindertons about  this on 26 October.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. This means that only Kindertons service was considered,  and not what 
the recovery agents may or may not have  done.
Our investigator found Kindertons hadnt  provided  a reasonable service. They investigated 
the damage to the fuel tank,  which the recovery agent denied  causing; and images sent to 
an independent engineer  showed that the damage may have been caused by recovery.  The 
investigator felt Kindertons shouldve instructed the engineer to have physically inspected 
the car at this point. By not doing  so, Mr M didnt have the opportunity to potentially pursue 
this recovery agent for the repairs. He recommended that Kindertons  pay Mr M £150 in 
recognition of this loss of opportunity.
Kindertons also took more than eight weeks to respond to Mr Ms complaint. The investigator  
felt that this wasnt unreasonable as the delay was due to third parties and outside of 
Kindertons control. He also felt that Kindertons communicated with Mr M through the 
complaints process.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator.  He says the level of service he received from 
Kindertons was appalling and has explained  why he considers their complaint handling to 
be unacceptable. Because of this he feels it goes  beyond the recommendation for them to 
pay me £150.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
damage to the fuel tank
Ive seen Kindertons  took Mr Ms concerns seriously. They  arranged  for an engineer to 
inspect images of the damage to the fuel tank.  The engineer  thought that this mayve been  
caused by the recovery  agent, but didnt say the damage was definitely  caused by recovery.  
I agree  that, at this point, a physical  inspection of the car wouldve been  the most  
appropriate thing  to do. A physical inspection couldve  allowed the engineer to make a more 
definite finding. 
Ref: DRN19853792Kindertons were aware that the recovery agent  didnt  take responsibility  for the damage.  So, 
if theyd had an inspection  done, and had this said the damage  was caused on recovery,  
Kindertons wouldnt necessarily be able to make the recovery agent fix it. But it would have 
given some evidence  which  couldve been  used to take further action against the recovery 
agent.
Kindertons failure  to ask the engineer to physically inspect the damage lost Mr M the 
opportunity to try to get the recovery agent  to repair  the damage.  Because of this, he has the 
frustration of never knowing what couldve happened. I agree that Kindertons should  
compensate Mr M for this, and I think the £150 recommended  by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
complaint handling
Mr M is unhappy  with how long Kindertons took to deal with his complaint. Hes said he 
didnt receive a reply  within eight  weeks, as promised,  and as required by the Legal 
Ombudsman rules. At this point Mr M had the right to contact the Legal  Ombudsman and 
ask them  to look at his complaint, but he chose not to do this. Instead he chose to 
constantly chase  Kindertons for updates.
Im in agreement that Kindertons took more than eight  weeks  to respond  to the complaint, 
and this was in part due to delays  outside of their control. I also appreciate  that the updates 
Mr M chased for and received were  not as in-depth  as he wouldve liked.  But I cant say that 
Kindertons should  compensate Mr M for the fact that he chose to wait for their final response 
before going to the Legal Ombudsman, when he had the right to do this much earlier. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Kindertons Ltd should pay 
Mr M £150 to compensate  him for the frustration  caused by not having an engineer  
physically inspect the damage to his car, and the loss of opportunity to pursue the recovery  
agents.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1985379