K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) declined  her residential 
property owners buildings insurance  claim  for damage caused by an escape of water. 
background
Mrs S owns  a property she lets to tenants. She took out landlords buildings  cover with L&G 
in November 2017. In June 2018 her tenant  reported the kitchen floor was bowing. Mrs S 
reported the matter  to L&G who asked  her to get a cause of damage report. Mrs S said she 
would have the leak traced.  
Mrs S arranged for contractors to attend to try and find out what the problem was. Eventually 
her plumber identified  a slow leak from the stop cock located at the back of the kitchen sink 
cupboard. He reported that it had been leaking for some time, had rotted  the floor joists  in 
the right-hand  corner of the kitchen  causing the floor to drop and caused considerable 
delamination to the kitchen units and laminate floor. 
Mrs S sent her plumbers  cause of damage  report  and some photographs of the damage  to 
L&G. She also sent in some quotes  that included a replacement kitchen. L&G appointed its 
surveyor to validate  the claim. The surveyor carried out a site visit, spoke to the tenant and 
reported to L&G. He said that the damage was old and was pre-policy inception. L&G 
declined the claim. 
Mrs S disagreed with L&G. She said the information  her tenant had given the surveyor  
hadnt been accurate and that the damage wasnt pre-inception. L&G maintained its position 
and told her to pursue  the claim with her previous insurer. 
Mrs S complained to L&G. It looked  into her complaint  and said its surveyors  report was the 
only professional  opinion available regarding the cause of damage  and, as such, it was 
unable to ignore  it. It said the claim remained declined.  
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to L&G,  Mrs S complained to this service.  Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  and recommended that it was upheld.  He said the leak 
was clearly ongoing whilst L&G had been  on cover. He also said it wasnt  unreasonable   
given its location   that it had gone  undiscovered. He thought  Mrs S had acted correctly by 
having the remedial works  done  in order to mitigate  further damage but he didnt  think  L&G 
had treated Mrs S fairly by declining the claim. He said it should reimburse Mrs S for the 
repair works she had completed  and pay interest  at this services  usual  rate of 8% simple 
per year on the amount shed paid. 
Mrs S accepted our investigators findings  but L&G disagreed. It said the damage  had 
occurred well before  the policy incepted. Our investigator wasnt persuaded by what L&G 
had said. He said he was satisfied from Mrs Ss plumbers report that thered been an 
ongoing leak which was causing damage  to the property within  L&Gs period of cover. He 
said damage caused by an escape of water was covered under the policy.  And he said 
damage that happened gradually, but which  a policyholder couldnt have reasonably been 
aware of, wasnt something that could be fairly excluded.  
L&G asked for the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN18729642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy covers  her for damage  caused  by an escape of water and its indisputable that 
theres been one at the property thats  caused damage.  Contrary  to L&Gs assertion that its 
surveyor produced  the only professional opinion into the cause of damage,  Mrs Ss plumber 
also provided a report  into the cause and nature of the damage that pre-dated both the 
surveyors visit and the repudiation. He found the leak he was there to repair  to be ongoing. 
Thats means theres evidence of damage caused by an escape of water whilst L&G is on 
risk. 
I think its clear  from what Ive said above,  that Mrs S has been able to show they she has a 
valid claim under the policy. That being  the case, L&G must settle the claim unless it can rely 
on one of the policy exclusions to defeat  it. L&G is relying on the Existing damage exclusion 
to defeat Mrs Ss claim.  That says damage that occurs before cover commences is 
specifically excluded. I think theres  evidence damage occurred after cover commenced. 
That means I dont  think  L&G hasnt fairly  relied on this exclusion. Ill explain why. 
Before I do, I should also say that I accept its possible  that the leak started causing damage  
before L&G came on risk (unbeknown  to the tenant  or Mrs S). But, for the reasons I set out 
below, damage  also occurred whilst L&G was on risk. In circumstances such  as these this 
service takes the approach that its the current insurer that should deal with the claim and 
the old insurer (subject to being approached by the current insurer  and the necessary proof 
being provided) should contribute to the claim costs. But that is something that should be 
resolved between insurers, not something we expect policyholders to become involved in. 
It is clear from Mrs Ss plumbers report  which provides far greater insight  into the damage 
than the report  prepared by L&Gs surveyor  that a leak was ongoing and damage had 
been caused by it. From the available evidence, I dont think  its reasonable to think  that a 
slow-ongoing leak caused the damage  evident at Mrs Ss property prior to L&G being on 
risk. According to L&Gs analogy, the damage  caused by the escape of water  mustve all 
occurred prior to November 2017.  So it says Mrs S must  make  a claim to her previous 
insurer. But Mrs Ss plumber  reported differently, and I cant reasonably ignore what  hes 
said. 
Nor can I reasonably  ignore the lack of detail an insight in L&Gs  surveyors  report.  He refers 
to the two-storey property as a bungalow. He also says the tenant said thered been no 
escape of water since hed moved in, nor in the last 12-18 months (although its unclear how 
he would  know that as hed only been  in the house 6 months). But given it took a while  for a 
qualified professional to locate the leak, I dont think its unreasonable  that the tenant was 
unaware a slow leak was going on.
I note that the surveyor says the tenant said that Mrs S told him thered been a leak about 5 
years ago. Mrs S says the same but that doesnt mean the 2018 escape of water  is the 
same leak.  Theres  no evidence  that it was. The evidence points to a slow leak from the stop 
cock that had been ongoing for a while whilst  L&G were on risk. Other than citing  some  
inconsistent comments from the tenant, the surveyor provides no insight into where any old 
escape of water may have come from to have caused the damage now present. He also 
makes no comment  on the plumbers findings. But he does say the tenant said the flooring 
Ref: DRN18729643had slowly deteriorated since  he moved  in, which supports the conclusion  that the leak had 
been ongoing and causing damage  whilst L&G was on risk. 
So I dont  think L&G has fairly and reasonably relied  on the existing damage exclusion. 
Taking all the evidence into account, I dont  think its been able to show  that the damage was 
all caused pre-inception.  I think it should deal with the claim (which here will mean  settling 
Mrs Ss invoices) and, should  it so wish, approach the previous insurer  for a contribution. 
There is some mention on the file of Mrs S giving the details of her previous insurer to L&G 
during the course of the claim.  But should  L&G not have those details in full, Mrs S should 
now provide them. 
Its reasonable to conclude  that the damage  occurred gradually  and whilst  I note that L&G 
hasnt relied on the gradually operating exclusion  to decline the claim, I can see that its 
applicability has formed part of our investigation.  
As L&G is aware, this service doesnt  consider its fair for an insurer to apply the gradually 
operating exclusion  to defeat  a claim where  the damage hasnt been something  the 
policyholder should reasonably have been  aware  of. I think thats the case here. The 
plumbers report says it was a small water leak coming from under the kitchen sink. 
From his comments, the tenant had no idea there  was a problem until the floor started 
bowing. From its location it was clearly hidden from view. In circumstances such as these it 
wouldnt be fair for L&G to apply  the gradually  operating exclusion.  
When L&G declined the claim, Mrs S rightly took steps to mitigate the damage and had 
repairs done and the kitchen replaced  (at what appears to me to be for a relatively modest 
cost). Subject to the production of the necessary receipts and proof  of payment, L&G should  
now reimburse Mrs S for the cost she incurred  in repairing the insured damage.  As shes  
been out of pocket for that money, L&G should  add interest at this services usual rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date Mrs S paid each  invoice to the date it settles my award.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited 
to do the following:
Subject to the provision of the relevant invoices and receipts by Mrs S for the insured 
damage caused by the escape of water,  reimburse  her for the sums she paid out to 
repair the insured  damage in the kitchen less any applicable policy excess;
Interest should  be added to any sums paid at this services usual rate of 8% simple  per 
year from the date Mrs S settled  the invoices to the date Legal  & General Insurance  
Limited settles my award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1872964