K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs L completed a postal application  to apply for a credit card in 2000. The PPI was sold at 
the same  time in connection  with this credit card account. 
The policy cost 89p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs L was off work sick or lost her job. And it wouldve 
cleared the balance if Mrs L died. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the policy was 
presented as optional and wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mrs L.
Mrs L disagrees. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint.
The PPI was applied  for on a postal  application  completed by Mrs L when she applied  for a 
credit card. Mrs L hasnt  been able to give us much detail about  the sale but given the length  
of time that has passed I think this is understandable. So Ive looked to the documents from 
the time of the sale to help me decide  how the PPI was presented to Mrs L at the time of 
sale and how it came to be applied to her account.
Capital One have given us a copy of the original  credit card application form. I can see in the 
section that deals with PPI it says Please enrol me in Capital Ones Payment Protection 
scheme with a Yes or No box just next to this. I see Mrs L has selected the yes box. 
If Mrs L didnt  want  to take out PPI she couldve selected the No box like she did with the 
other options given  to her. Because  Mrs L was given the option to select  yes or no to PPI, 
I think its likely she knew she had a choice about  taking  out PPI and chose to take it 
because she wanted the cover.
Because the application was by post and appears  to have been completed without the 
involvement of a sales representative  in Mrs Ls own time, I dont think Capital One advised  
Mrs L to take the cover.  What  this means is that PPI wasnt recommended  to Mrs L by 
Capital One, it just gave her information  about  PPI. This information  needed  to be given in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could  make an informed choice about  
buying PPI.
For information on PPI the application  form says see leaflet enclosed. I havent  seen a 
copy of the leaflet so I dont what  information  was given to Mrs L at the point of sale.  So 
Ref: DRN12410192I dont know whether the information given was good enough. That being  said if Capital One 
did give all the information Mrs L needed to make  an informed choice on taking out the 
policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs L says she was entitled to some sick pay and had savings  
she could use to make her credit card payments if she couldnt work  or lost her job. But 
the policy  wouldve paid out of top of this and for potentially  longer up to 12 months  per 
claim.  
So I think the policy provided a useful benefit for Mrs L in her situation.  
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs L and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs L on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to because:  
When the policy was sold, Capital  One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about 
that. Because Capital One didnt  tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs L any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12410193
Ref: DRN1241019