K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained about the service provided  by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited after she 
made a claim for breast cancer  treatment under her private medical  insurance  policy.
background
In 2015, Mrs K was sadly diagnosed with breast cancer. She underwent a mammoplasty 
procedure. AXA PPP provided  cover for this under her policy.
Mrs Ks consultant later advised that the cancer was still present and that she needed a 
mastectomy with immediate reconstruction to her right breast, along with surgery to her left 
breast to achieve symmetry. Mrs Ks husband  rang AXA PPP to establish what cover was 
available under the policy. AXA eventually  agreed to provide cover  for the surgery  to the 
right breast but not for any treatment to the unaffected left breast.  It said that the policy 
allowed cover  for a symmetry  operation  on one occasion only and this had taken place  at the 
time of Mrs Ks initial  surgery. It furthermore said that the consultant (who Ill call Dr J) who 
was due to carry  out the reconstructive  surgery on her right breast charged beyond its fee 
limits and so there would be a shortfall  which she would have to pay. 
In 2016, Mrs K had the operation on her right breast.  Mrs K made arrangements  to have the 
symmetry operation on her unaffected breast  at a later date through  the NHS.
Later in 2016,  Mrs K complained to AXA PPP about  its handling of the claim.  She also said 
that when talking to her husband about  her cover, AXA PPP had disclosed confidential 
information about her condition  and treatment.
AXA PPP issued a final response letter in which it acknowledged that it had been  wrong  to 
decline cover  for symmetry surgery in her unaffected breast  in 2016. It noted that she had 
since transferred to the NHS but invited her to contact it if she now wanted to have this 
treatment privately after all. It offered £500 compensation for the poor service  it had provided 
in this respect. It also apologised for discussing Mrs Ks medical situation with her husband  
rather than simply  information about her policy. In view of this, and the fact it had taken 
longer than it should to deal with her complaint,  it offered  her a further £100 compensation.
Mrs K didnt transfer back to private care for her symmetry operation.  In January 2018, her 
policy with AXA PPP lapsed.
In July 2018, Mrs K received a statement  from AXA PPP saying she owed £4,900,  relating to 
Dr Js fee for the 2016 operation. Mrs K contacted  AXA PP and it said she didnt  need  to 
worry about this as it had already settled the invoice. It confirmed this in writing at Mrs Ks 
request.
A short time later, Mrs K received an invoice directly  from Dr J for £2,150. She questioned  
this with AXA PPP.
AXA PPP issued another final response letter in which it acknowledged it had advised Mrs K 
wrongly when it said the invoice  had been settled. In fact, it had been  settled only up to AXA 
PPPs fee limit and Mrs K was therefore  responsible for the shortfall of £2,150. It was 
satisfied it had made Mrs K aware of this at the time of her treatment but it apologised for the 
confusion caused  by its recent wrong  assurance. On reviewing its file, it also noted that 
when it was speaking  to Mrs K before her 2016  operation, it hadnt offered to find a different 
Ref: DRN13040022surgeon whose  fee it would  settle  in full. It didnt think  Mrs K would necessarily have chosen 
to use such a surgeon because it would have  meant  changing both her hospital and her 
treating consultant. Nonetheless, in view of its failings on these matters it offered her a 
further £150 compensation.
Mrs K was unhappy at AXA PPPs response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. While  
acknowledging the mistakes made by AXA PPP, she was satisfied that its offer of 
compensation was fair.
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that AXA PPPs delay in accepting  
liability for the symmetry  surgery meant that it hadnt  been  possible to combine the 
mastectomy and symmetry operation at the same time with the grafting taken from the same  
donor site, as recommended  by the consultant. As a result,  the symmetry operation  shed 
eventually undergone through the NHS  would never be as well matched and shed  
furthermore had to wear prosthesis for two and a half years while waiting for this. She also 
reiterated her concerns  about the other  failings by AXA PPP.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why, dealing with each  matter under a separate  heading.
decline of claim for symmetry surgery
Mrs K contacted AXA PPP after undergoing her mammoplasty to explain that further surgery  
was necessary. Mrs K thinks that AXA PPP unreasonably tried to avoid liability for any cover 
by disputing her consultants finding that cancer was still present in her breast. However, 
having listened to the relevant  telephone  calls, I dont think AXA PPP was at fault in this 
respect. It was simply trying to establish her clinical condition which it needed to do before  it 
could confirm what cover it would provide. Having received the necessary information, AXA 
PPP correctly confirmed  it would  provide  cover  (up to its fee limit)  for a mastectomy  and 
reconstruction of the affected breast.
However, AXA PPP also told Mrs K that it wouldnt provide  cover  for a symmetry operation 
on the unaffected breast on the grounds  that Mrs K had already undergone such an 
operation. It later accepted that this decision was wrong and it advised Mrs K of this error  but 
this wasnt until January 2017 which was some eight months after the mastectomy operation  
had taken place.  The question is what compensation is warranted for this error.
Mrs K says that if AXA PPP had accepted liability at the appropriate time, the symmetry 
surgery would have  been carried out at the same time as the surgery on her affected breast. 
Not only would that have been  more convenient for her, she says it also would have resulted 
in a better outcome. As it was, she had to wait two and a half years  to receive a symmetry 
operation on the NHS.
I agree  that AXA PPP made a serious  error  in denying  liability  for the symmetry operation 
and this will have resulted in significant  inconvenience for Mrs K in that she was forced to 
Ref: DRN13040023undergo the operation separately at a later date. However, when it realised its error, AXA 
PPP offered  Mrs K the opportunity  to have the operation privately. Mrs K decided against  
this and has explained to our investigator  that this was partly because  she was dissatisfied 
with the work of the surgeons  who had treated her in 2016. I cant  reasonably  hold AXA PPP 
responsible for the two year or so wait for Mrs K to receive her symmetry  surgery  through  
the NHS  after it had offered her the opportunity to transfer back  to the private  sector. 
Furthermore, while I recognise there were reasons to believe that carrying  out the operations  
on both breasts at the same time would result in a better cosmetic  outcome, there  was no 
guarantee that this would have been the case,  particularly  bearing in mind Mrs Ks 
subsequent dissatisfaction with the surgeons concerned.  I appreciate that the whole  episode  
will have caused distress  and inconvenience  to Mrs K but overall I am satisfied that AXA 
PPPs offer of £500 compensation  was fair.
disclosure of confidential information
Mrs K says that while she had given  AXA PPP permission to speak to her husband,  this was 
in respect of policy administrative matters only, not in respect of her medical treatment. Her 
husband rang AXA PPP to discuss the moratorium underwriting under their policy  and to 
make sure Mrs Ks planned  treatment  would be covered. Mrs K says that in the course  of 
this conversation the adviser disclosed information  which she didnt want her husband  to 
know.
I appreciate that Mrs K was very distressed  by the telephone call and AXA PPP accepts it 
was in the wrong. However, having listened  to a recording of the call it seems  to me that 
most of the information about Mrs Ks condition and treatment was volunteered by her 
husband and the adviser just clarified the medical  terms for the operations  in question.  
Mrs K has explained that in the course  of both this and another  conversation  between  her 
and AXA PPP, third parties overheard what she and her husband  were  saying and were able 
to work out information which she had been trying  to keep confidential. This is very 
unfortunate but I cant reasonably hold AXA PPP responsible  for this. If Mrs K or her 
husband hadnt wanted to continue the conversation in the environment they were in, it was 
up to them  to tell AXA PPP of this.  
     
Overall, Im satisfied that AXA PPPs offer of £100 compensation was fair.
incorrect advice about invoice / failure  to offer fee-assured  surgeon in 2016
In 2018, AXA PPP sent Mrs K a statement implying  that she needed  to pay Mr Js 
outstanding full fee of £4,900  for the surgery he carried  out in 2016. Mrs K telephoned AXA 
PPP and it assured her that this was wrong and that it had already settled  Mr Js invoice in 
full; it also confirmed this in writing.
However, shortly afterwards Mrs K received  an invoice directly  from Mr J for the amount of 
£2,150. She again contacted AXA PPP and it acknowledged  its error  in its earlier 
communications. It confirmed that Mrs K was indeed liable for this amount. 
I appreciate that AXA PPP gave conflicting  information which  served to confuse  Mrs K. 
Nonetheless, I am satisfied that it eventually advised  her correctly. Dr J charged above AXA 
PPPs fee limit. Consequently,  it would  pay only £2,750 towards his fee of £4,900 for the 
2016 reconstruction surgery, leaving Mrs K liable for the shortfall of £2,150. Furthermore,  I 
am satisfied  that AXA PPP explained  this clearly to Mrs K at the time, both over the 
Ref: DRN13040024telephone and in writing,  so she was well aware of this before she underwent her treatment. 
She should therefore have been  expecting to receive such  an invoice at some point.
AXA PPP also acknowledged in retrospect  that it should have offered to find a surgeon  who 
would have carried out the reconstruction  surgery within its fee limit. I agree that this would 
have been appropriate. However,  AXA PPP has explained that this would have meant Mrs K 
would have had to receive her treatment in a different hospital and this, in turn, would have 
meant she would  have had to change to a new treating consultant. It considers that Mrs K 
would have been reluctant to transfer from the consultant who had been treating her until 
that time and I tend to agree. I therefore  consider that AXA PPPs  failure to offer to find a 
fee-assured surgeon  probably didnt result  in any disadvantage to Mrs K.
AXA PPP has offered  £150 compensation for the errors over the invoice and the failure  in 
respect of offering  to find a fee-assured surgeon.  On balance, I think this is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1304002