K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, closed her account and 
registered a default on her credit file when they had told her that all actions would  be put on 
hold for 30 days.
She would like the default removed from her credit file and compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  suffered by her. 
background
Miss A held a Reward Current Account with Halifax. She was overdrawn. She says that she 
received a letter from Halifax on 15 June 2018  asking  her to repay the outstanding balance 
on her overdraft. 
Miss A says that she called Halifax on 17 July 2018  to discuss the letter. She says that 
Halifax agreed to put her account on hold for 30 days and asked her to call again on 17 
August 2018.  But, when  Miss A later checked  her account, she found  that it had been  closed  
and passed to a debt collection agency. 
Miss A raised a complaint  with Halifax. 
Halifax wrote  to her on 16 August 2018. They said that Miss A had been given incorrect 
information on 17 July 2018. They said that she shouldnt  have been told that the account 
would be put on hold because the process  to close it had already started by then which 
couldnt be stopped. They offered her £100  compensation for the incorrect information that 
they had given to her. 
Regarding the default being applied to her account, Halifax didnt think  that they had done 
anything wrong. They  said that they had sent a letter to Miss A on 9 May 2018 asking her to 
repay her balance within 60 days. As this wasnt done, they had started the process  to close  
her account  and pass it to collections.  They said that they were right to register a default on 
Miss As credit file on 19 July 2018,  as it provided a true and accurate reflection of her 
account. 
Miss A didnt agree with this decision  so she came to us. 
Our adjudicator thought that Halifax hadnt done anything  wrong  in registering the default.  
She thought  that Halifax had given incorrect information to Miss A but she thought  that £100 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss A didnt agree with this. In particular, she said that:
she hadnt received  the letters that Halifax claimed to have sent to her; 
the letters from Halifax shouldve  been  sent by registered post or shouldve been 
signed for;
Halifax had offered her £100 compensation because they were  at fault.
The complaint has now come to me. 
Ref: DRN14259302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Miss A wont be happy  with my decision. I think  that Halifax has acted fairly 
and reasonably in offering £100 compensation in this case. I dont think  that they need to do 
anything else. I will explain why. 
Ive seen the business file from Halifax. It shows that letters were sent by Halifax to Miss A 
on 13 April 2018, 1 May 2018, 9 May 2018 and 15 June 2018.  All said that they would close 
the account if the overdrawn balance  wasnt repaid.  I have also seen copies of these letters.  
I dont doubt that they were sent.  I appreciate that Miss A says that she didnt  receive some  
of these letters, but I cant hold Halifax responsible for this as I do believe  that they sent 
them. If Miss A didnt get the letters, it couldve been  the fault of the postal service  over 
which Halifax has no control. 
The letter on 9 May 2018 gave Miss A 60 days to repay the balance.  It was a formal  demand 
letter. Miss A says that she didnt get this letter. She says, as it was such an important  letter, 
it shouldve been  sent my registered post or shouldve been signed for. Im afraid that I dont 
agree with this. I think that Halifax should be able to rely on the postal service and assume 
that anything that they send will get to the recipient. It is their business  decision to not use 
the registered postal service.  This isnt something that I can interfere with. 
I have considered whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in closing the account. The 
letter dated  9 May 2018  was a formal demand. The 60 days given to repay the debt wouldve 
expired on 9 July 2018. At this point, Halifax wouldve started  the process to close the 
account. I think that 60 days was enough  time to give to Miss A. Also, other  letters were sent 
before this asking  her to repay the debt. Again, I have noted  that Miss A has said that she 
didnt get some of these  letters. I have also noted  that Miss A knew  that she was overdrawn 
above her limit and she wouldve known that this would have some consequences. Also,  
after receiving the letter dated 15 June 2018  giving her 30 days  to repay the debt, she didnt 
call Halifax  until 17 July 2018.  I believe that she had plenty of time to negotiate with Halifax 
and shouldve done so. When Halifax finally closed that account and registered  a default, I 
think that they had acted  fairly and reasonably. 
Halifax has admitted giving Miss A incorrect information when they spoke on 17 July 2018. 
But this is the only fault that they have admitted. They told Miss A that they would put the 
account on hold when, in fact, the process  to close it had already  begun.  I do think that they 
were wrong to tell Miss A that her account would be put on hold. But I dont think  that they 
were unfair or unreasonable  in closing the account and registering the default. Had Miss A 
been given the correct  information on 17 July 2018, that is, been told that her account was 
being closed,  I dont think that it couldve changed anything. In particular, I dont think  Miss A 
wouldve paid off her balance. So, I think that the £100 compensation offered for the 
incorrect information being given is fair and reasonable. 
I know that this isnt the outcome that Miss A had hoped for. But I do believe that Halifax has 
been fair and reasonable in this case. I hope that I have adequately explained why I think  
this. 
Ref: DRN14259303my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, to pay to 
Miss A £100 compensation, if it hasnt already been  paid, for the incorrect information given 
to her on 17 July 2018. I dont require them to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1425930