K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy that his claim under a warranty for his gas fire was declined  by 
Domestic & General Services Limited (D&G).
background 
Mr H has told us that he purchased a gas fire in 2011. In 2013 he took out a warranty  with 
D&G. This provided cover  for mechanical/electrical breakdown or if it stopped  working 
because of accidental  damage.  the warranty said that if any of these things happened D&G 
would repair or replace  the item, or pay the cost of replacing it. 
There were also exclusions  contained within the warranty. The potentially relevant ones 
were: 
5. Your equipment must not have been  lost, stolen, neglected, poorly  installed,  subject  of 
malicious damage, 
9. You are liable for the cost or repairs if there is no fault found with the equipment  or to the 
extent that it required  routine  maintenance, cleaning, servicing, cosmetic repairs 
In April 2014 Mr H had the flue swept.  The invoice  said that the chimney  had been  
thoroughly cleaned and a visual inspection  of the lower part of the flue (that which was 
visible) showed  it to be in excellent condition with no excessive build-up  of deposits.
In February 2015  Mr H made a claim under the warranty as his gas fire wasnt  working 
properly. D&G arranged for an inspection. It was concluded that the fire was showing 
excessive signs of spillage and was unfit for use. Spillage meaning fumes from the 
combustion process entering the room rather than being vented up the flue. As such, it was 
disconnected from the gas supply and a warning label attached. The claim was declined 
because D&G considered  the problem was with the installation of the fire.
Mr H didnt accept D&Gs  conclusions and had the chimney/flue inspected by a local 
chimney services company. This concluded that there were no signs  of damage or cracking  
to the flue. There  were  no obstructions or any build-up of deposits within the chimney. A 
smoke test was done and it was confirmed the flue was drawing properly and there  was no 
spillage back  into the room.
Mr H also had the fire inspected by a large gas services company. This report said that the 
fault was the fire was heavily sooted , beyond repair and immediately dangerous. In the 
tick-box  sections it said that:
The appliance was not operating correctly
The appliance flueing  was not safe
Ref: DRN16503132The safety warning/advice notice  said that the fire was Immediately Dangerous  which it 
defined as an appliance or installation  that if operated or left connected  to a gas supply  is an 
immediate danger  to life or property. Immediately below this it contained three statements 
about the fault:
Fault
An escape  of Gas has been  detected on the appliance or gas installation.
A problem  has been identified  with the flue of your appliance
The appliance is not operating/installed safely.
The second  and third statements were ticked. The engineer wrote  Fire already capped by 
3rd party. Left capped due to fire spilling fumes into room.  Fire heavily  sooted   beyond  
repair.
During the course of our investigation, D&G  made a goodwill offer to Mr H. It offered  to 
refund the premium  he had paid for the policy up to the point it had been  cancelled (the 
remainder having  already  been refunded) plus interest. It also offered him £200 for any 
costs, losses and distress or inconvenience  its handling of the claim may have caused him. 
It offered  interest on that sum too. 
Mr H didnt accept the offer as he considered that it wasnt sufficient. He said that the fire 
was the only form of heating in his property and because it wasnt  working he had had to use 
electric heaters and had very high utility  bills because of that. He also pointed  out that had 
D&G replaced the fire as he believed it should have, that would  have cost considerably  more  
than the £200 offered.
Our adjudicator, therefore, considered the merits of Mr Hs complaint. He didnt recommend 
that it be upheld.  Mr H didnt accept this view. He said that the information about  the flue 
shouldnt be ignored  and that this was the only information specifically about the flue, which  
D&G said, was the reason it declined the claim. Mr H also said that the gas fire had been 
serviced at least once a year since it was installed.
Mr Hs comments  didnt change the adjudicators  view and so the complaint was referred to 
me for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has evidenced that the flue in of itself appears to be functional. However,  the remaining 
evidence, both from Mr Hs engineering inspection and D&Gs  one, clearly  shows that the 
fumes produced  from the fire were not venting  up the flue properly, but rather  leaking into 
the room. D&Gs engineer attributed this to incorrect installation. Mr Hs engineer  ticked the 
statement which included unsafe  installation.  On balance, I am satisfied that both 
engineering opinions indicate that there  was an installation  problem  which led to the fire not 
venting properly.  
Incorrect or poor installation is something  that is specifically excluded under the warranty  
terms. As such, I dont  consider that D&G  acted  inappropriately when  it declined  Mr Hs 
claim. 
Ref: DRN16503133D&G made a goodwill  offer to Mr H. This offer may still be available  to Mr H, but he will have 
to speak to D&G if he now wishes to accept the offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept  or reject my decision before 
15 February 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1650313