K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc wont pay her full claim under her executive 
business policy for redecoration of rooms in her guest house affected  by water damage.
 
background
Mrs W owns a guest house.  In September 2018  she made a claim to Covea in respect  of 
separate water leaks which affected two separate rooms. Mrs W wanted  to use her own 
contractor to carry out the repairs and redecoration and he submitted a quote for approval. It 
was established  that the damaged  area was from the ceilings down to the dado rail but it 
was agreed that the whole of the walls would be allowed for in the redecoration work. 
However Covea queried the inclusion of the doors  and windows and woodwork as these 
werent affected by the water damage. The contractor took out the doors and windows from 
his quote but explained  that the skirting boards and dado rails would be affected by the 
painting of the walls. This included  the replacement of a wallpaper border above  the dado  
rails. Covea  then agreed to pay the contractors  quote with just the doors and windows not 
included, less the respective excesses.
Mrs W complained  that the doors and windows needed to be included  as the job would  only 
look half done. She has since paid for this work out of her own pocket.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Covea had acted reasonably. 
Mrs W disagreed  and the matter has been  passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Put simply the policy covers damage to the property insured. So the upper half of the walls, 
and the ceilings, were  damaged by water. I think it was reasonable to include the lower  half 
under the dado rail as these were  effectively part of the same walls,  and were the same 
colour. In its payment  to Mrs W, Covea included the cost of painting  the dado rails and the 
skirting boards. I think this was reasonable since the contractor explained that they were 
going to be affected by the rubbing  down and emulsion painting  of the immediate areas.  But 
the doors and windows  werent damaged, and the contractor responded by removing those 
from his quote  when asked by Covea.
Whilst I fully appreciate that for the look of the overall redecoration it would be better to 
include the doors and windows, those  werent damaged  by the water leaks and werent 
affected by the redecoration to the other  parts. If they had been I think the contractor  would 
have said. So the cost of repainting those wasnt covered under  the policy and I dont think  it 
was reasonable  to expect Covea to cover  that cost. So Im afraid  I cant  ask Covea to pay for 
this part of the redecoration.
Ref: DRN17884402my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1788440