K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS)  overcharged him 
interest when he cancelled his hire purchase  agreement. 
background
Mr M bought  a car funded  by hire purchase provided  by VFS. The agreement  which  is 
headed Hire Purchase Agreement  regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974  was signed 
on 11 December 2017. It was for a period of 24 months with a balancing payment due 23 
months after the date of the first repayment. He contacted VFS by phone on 2 January 2018 
to cancel the contract and it sent him a statement which  showed  he owed 58 days  of 
interest.
He paid the sum requested, but complained to VFS. It responded to say that under 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004 the settlement date was deferred by 
28 days from when the quote was requested. It added that this was set out in clause 7 of the 
agreement. It also explained that as the agreement  was for more than one year the 
Consumer Credit Act entitled  it to charge an additional 30 days interest. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said the business was closed over the 
Christmas period and he had made his request to cancel within  14 working days.  He also 
said that his contract  didnt refer to the business being able to charge  for 58 days interest.  
The adjudicator said that his request was made  outside the 14 calendar  day time limit for 
withdrawing from the contract. She also explained that the Consumer Credit  (Early 
Settlement) Regulations  2004 set out the rules for calculation of interest in his situation. 
These entitled the business to add on 58 days  interest  after a request was made to settle an 
account. She concluded that VFS hadnt done anything  wrong.
Mr M didnt  agree and said the agreement didnt refer to calendar days and even if it did the 
VFS office  was closed  on the 14th calendar  day. He didnt  agree that the cooling off period 
commenced on the day he signed the agreement, but on the day he collected the car, 
though he didnt say on which date he took delivery.  Finally, he said that the contract didnt 
set out the 58 day charge and it wasnt reasonable to expect the average  consumer  to be 
aware of the regulations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  However,  I 
would add that it is not my role to make  findings  on legality.
The agreement was signed by Mr M on 11 December 2017  and it states that he has a right 
of withdrawal. However, this is time limited and the agreement says: The withdrawal  period  
is 14 days, beginning with the day after the day on which this agreement is made. The 
Ref: DRN11788042legislation operates on calendar  days and not working  days, and even allowing for the two 
bank holidays which fell within the period, Mr Ms request to withdraw was made out of time.
The requirement is that the consumer issues a notice to withdraw within the time limit and it 
was open to him to have written a letter or sent an email within the 14 day period for his 
request to have been valid. He was not prevented from doing so by the offices of VFS being 
closed.
I appreciate the contract didnt set out the consumer legislation, but it does make it clear that 
it is so regulated. In reality  not every  situation is set out in such agreements and while I can 
see why Mr M believes  his circumstances should have been explained I cannot safely  
conclude that the business did anything wrong. The law entitles it to charge for 58 days and I 
cannot say that it was wrong in its calculation  of the interest charge.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
23 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1178804