K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about the cancellation  of the travel  insurance policy  she had with Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre).
background
Mrs D had a travel insurance policy with Mapfre. Shortly before she was due to go on a trip, 
she contacted  Mapfre to inform it of some medical investigations which  were going  to be 
carried out. Following  this Mapfre declined to offer cover and cancelled the policy. 
Mapfre allowed Mrs D to make a claim for the cancellation of her trip, which  she did. She 
cancelled the trip as she was unable to get insurance cover  with anther provider, due to the 
investigations which were  being carried out. Mrs D maintained  that she would have  
continued with her trip if she was able to get cover which  excluded  claims related to the 
investigations which were  being carried out. Mrs D wanted compensation for the trip being 
cancelled as she felt the cancellation was unnecessary. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and thought  that Mapfre  had acted  in line with 
its policy terms and conditions when  cancelling the policy.  Mrs D did not agree, so the case  
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding  this complaint and will explain why. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy state:
Changes to health  after purchasing your policy. 
If there are any changes or additional medical  conditions which occur before the start date of 
your trip and after the policy  has been issued, the person(s) whose health has changed must 
call (and inform us of) the changes. We have the right to change  the conditions of your policy  
in line with the changes in risk.
When Mrs D informed Mapfre of the medical  investigations being carried  out, it assessed the 
risk and decided  that cover could no longer be offered. It therefore cancelled  the policy  in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. 
The most Mapfre would have been  obliged  to do in these circumstances is to process a 
claim for the cancellation  of the trip, if Mrs D decided to cancel it. In this case  Mrs D did 
cancel the trip and Mapfre processed  the claim for this. 
Compensation for the cancellation  of the policy and the trip would only be required if I 
thought that either the policy terms did not allow Mapfre  to cancel cover,  or that they did so 
obviously unreasonably. I havent got enough proof of either of these.
Ref: DRN10999542The policy terms are reasonably clear, and do allow  Mapfre to change  the policy when a risk 
is reassessed, as here. On that basis I think they can decide not to continue  cover,  as long 
as they agree to consider  any cancellation claim under the policy, as they have done.  
As for the reasonableness of the cancellation  it is down to an insurer  what  risks it will cover,  
and I cannot substitute my view of what should,  or shouldnt be covered for that of the 
business. I can only look at the general reasonableness  of what  the business  did. 
In this case Mrs D was having further  tests, and they had a cardiac connection, which  can 
obviously lead to very serious issues, and to be blunt quite expensive  insurance claims. 
From the businesses details of its underwriting policy its clear  they dont want  to cover such 
risks, and that doesnt seem unfair to me. So I wont be asking them  to change that view, as 
I dont think the cancellation of the policy was unreasonable.   
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. I make no award  against Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1099954