K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that Citifinancial Europe Limited  (Citifinancial) mis-sold her a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss P was sold a PPI policy in connection  with a loan during a meeting in April 2002.
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Ps complaint should  be upheld because  they thought  that 
the cost of the policy had not been  made  clear  to Miss P.
Citifinancial didnt agree with our adjudicator  and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. I will now explain why.
Citifinancial had to make  the cost of the policy clear  to Miss P. It says that the costs were  set 
out clearly in the documents  provided to Miss P. However, I have seen a copy  of these 
documents and I dont  think  the costs were  set out clearly  enough.  
Miss P was sold a single premium policy which meant that the cost of the policy was added 
to her borrowing and she would have been charged  interest on this. In these circumstances, 
I would have expected Citifinancial to set out the cost of the PPI premium,  the interest  to be 
charged, the total cost of the PPI including interest and the monthly PPI repayment so that 
Miss P could make an informed decision about the cost of the policy and whether it was of 
value to her. However, the insurance application form simply set out the cost of the PPI  
without interest.
Ive also seen a copy of the credit  agreement to check if the costs had been  set out any 
more clearly here. But they werent.  This only set out a total amount for both insurances  sold 
to Miss P but no breakdown was provided. Although it showed  interest  would be added,  it 
didnt set out the amount  of interest that would be charged (it only provided a percentage 
figure) and I wouldnt expect Miss P to work  this out on her own.
I think that if the costs  of the PPI had been made clear to Miss P as they should  have been, I 
dont think she would  have taken the policy out as I dont think  she would have considered  it 
to have been good value  for money  in her circumstances.
It follows that I think Citifinancial mis-sold Miss P this PPI policy.
fair compensation
Miss P borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
Ref: DRN16828032she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Miss P needs to get back the extra shes  
paid.
So, Citifinancial  should:
 Work out and pay Miss P the difference between what  she paid each month  on the 
loan and what she wouldve paid without  PPI.  
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss P paid from when  she paid it until she 
gets it back. The rate of interest  is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then 
on.
 If Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Citifinancial can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 I know  that Citifinancial made an offer to refund some of the commission  it received 
for Miss Ps PPI premiums. If this has already  been paid to Miss P, Citifinancial can take 
off what she got for the commission from the amount  it owes  her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Citifinancial to take off tax from this interest. Citifinancial 
must give Miss P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ps complaint against Citifinancial Europe Limited and require them  to pay 
Miss P the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1682803