K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Mrs M opened  a store  card account  in a shop in 1997. At the same time, she took out a 
PPI policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Ms store  card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included life cover  and purchase cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ms case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she cant remember being sold the PPI. She says she had no reason to 
take it out, and all she wanted was the store card. Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ms 
application for the store  card.  It includes a section on PPI. Theres brief summary of the 
cover, with a space  to tick if the applicant  wished to take it, alongside  the statement 
Yes, I want my Account  covered  by Payment and Purchase Protection Insurance 
(subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until 
further notice . Theres a tick in the space on Mrs Ms form, to indicate that she wished 
to take the cover.  And she signed  the application form.
I acknowledge  that Mrs Ms commented that she feels that the fact that she ticked  a box 
doesnt mean anything. But I think that the way the PPI was set out on the form made  
it clear that it was optional. And I think that Mrs M chose to take the PPI, knowing that 
she had a choice  about it- although I can understand why she may no longer remember  
this, so many years  later.
FICL didnt advise Mrs M to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check if the policy 
was suitable for her. But it still needed  to make  sure it gave Mrs M enough information 
to enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what  alternative  means  
shed have  had of making her monthly  repayments  if she was unable to work.
Ref: DRN11409082Mrs Ms told us shes unsure how much  sick pay shed  have  been  entitled to from her 
employer at the time. But she says she worked  for a good  company, with good benefits,  
and shed have  been paid if shed  been  off sick. She also says she and her husband  
had some  savings, although  shes confirmed that they wouldnt have been a lot.
If Mrs M had made a successful claim on the PPI, it would have paid a monthly benefit 
15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would have  done  this each month until 
her credit agreement ended, or she returned to work,  or the outstanding balance  had 
been repaid- whichever was the earliest.  So it would potentially  have covered her for 
longer than shed  have  been  entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out 
in addition  to any payments  Mrs M received  from her employer,  and she wouldnt have 
had to use her savings to make her monthly store  card repayments. So I think  the policy  
could have  been useful for her.
I accept that its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But Ive concluded that Mrs M chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably  forgotten  that 
now. She was eligible  for the policy, and doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of 
the main things it didnt  cover (for example  provisions  about unusual  working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions). Im satisfied  that it would have been clear 
from the application form that there  would be monthly  premiums to pay for the cover. 
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that the policy was unaffordable  for Mrs M.
Taking everything  into account, Im not convinced that better  information  about the PPI 
would have  put Mrs M off taking it out. So I dont think  shes lost out as a result  of 
anything that FICL  may have done wrong.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ms comments,  including what  shes  said about  not having  
received any policy  documents.  FICL  says it would have sent Mrs M documentation with full 
details of the insurance by post.  And I dont have strong  enough evidence  to convince me 
that theres any reason why it would have  departed  from its usual procedures in this case. 
Ive also borne in mind  that the premiums for the PPI would have been shown on Mrs Ms 
store card statements from the beginning.  If she didnt realise shed taken the cover, and 
didnt want it, I think its likely shed have contacted FICL to query the payments.  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that she did so before she brought her complaint in 2016. So this doesnt 
change my conclusion.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1140908