K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1995 to cover  a 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
The sale of the PPI took place about  24 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mrs and Mr G have said the PPI was added without their knowledge.  However it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude  this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of 
this. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something  wrong,  
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should  present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt  do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. It would  be more usual for the PPI 
to have been mentioned in the documents at the time, and I think its more  likely this is what  
happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice, even if Mrs and Mr G doesnt  now 
remember it. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mrs and Mr Gs consent. 
I think Lloyds probably recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr G, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach  during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mrs and Mr Gs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  And it looks  to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Gs situation at the 
time: 
I dont have strong evidence that Mrs and Mr G were not eligible for the policy.  
Ref: DRN14183972The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mrs and Mr G received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs and Mr G would need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have 
had for paying  the mortgage  and other  living costs. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr G in a more secure position, if theyd eventually  lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some  things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr G would have been affected  by any of these,  taking  into account their 
circumstances including  their medical  history  and the type of work  they did when the 
policy started. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and that a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mrs and Mr G took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were  greater than 
Mrs and Mr Gs sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high.
So I havent decided  the PPI was mis-sold.  But Lloyds has paid back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs and Mr G because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs and Mr G about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
Mrs and Mr G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN14183973my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs and Mr G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  30 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1418397