K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited (Clydesdale) shouldnt have 
agreed to lend to her under a conditional  sale agreement (agreement). She says the 
agreement was unaffordable.
Mrs B is represented in her complaint by her husband. However, for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions made by Mrs Bs husband  as if they had been made  by Mrs B.
background
In March 2018 Mrs B entered  into an agreement  with Clydesdale for the acquisition  of some  
furniture. The sum advanced  was £2,544 repayable over 48 months at £53 per month. The 
interest rate was 0%. Shortly  after entering  into the agreement Mrs B says she was unable  
to maintain the monthly payment required of £53 and felt that the credit shouldnt  have been 
advanced to her.
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary she concluded that Clydesdale  hadnt  acted irresponsibly  in 
granting the credit of £2,544 and that since becoming aware  of her financial difficulties it had 
treated Mrs B fairly.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs B has very strong feelings about this complaint.  She has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of her view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time. This 
includes, amongst  other things, having regard to Clydesdales regulatory obligations under 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC says that lenders  need to carry out checks to ensure  any lending it gives  is affordable 
and sustainable  for the borrower.  This is often referred to as an affordability  check.  These 
checks need to be proportionate to the situation. In deciding what is proportionate  lenders 
ought to have regard to, but not restricted to, the following:
The size and duration of the credit; 
The overall cost of the borrowing  and the size of the repayments; and 
The borrowers personal circumstances. 
Ref: DRN18641092To assess whether  Mrs B could sustainably afford to repay the credit, Clydesdale  ran a 
credit check  and took into account her declared income of £35,000.
Now Ive seen the results of Clydesdales credit  check and can see that that although Mrs B 
had a number  of debts recorded,  none were recorded as ever being  in arrears. I can also 
see that all the credit recorded  was made  available  to Mrs B between  2 and 15 years before 
the credit  subject to this complaint. I also think it worth pointing  out that one of the debts was 
in respect of a mortgage.
Given what I say above, Mrs Bs declared  income  of £35,000 and the terms of the credit  
being granted (size, duration, overall cost and the size of the repayments) Im satisfied that 
Clydesdale carried out a proportionate assessment  of Mrs Bs ability to sustainably  repay  
and therefore  its lending wasnt irresponsible.
I can see that shortly after taking the credit Mrs B fell into financial difficulties. But based on 
what both parties have said and submitted I cant see that Clydesdale  has done anything  
other than treat Mrs B fairly and with forbearance and due consideration, in line with what I 
would expect it to do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. However, I would  remind  Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited  of its obligations  to continue to treat Mrs B with forbearance and 
due consideration whilst she is in financial difficulties.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1864109