K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL")  mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Ms B took out in 2001. It 
was sold to her in store. Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Ms B didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that she only thought  she was signing for a store card;  PPI wasnt  
mentioned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain  why.
The application form included  a separate section headed Protecting your Account which  
included the instruction, only sign this box if you require Account Cover . Ms B signed the 
box to indicate  that she wanted  it. I accept its likely that PPI wasnt  discussed,  but this 
doesnt make a difference to my conclusion - I think the application form made it reasonably  
clear that Ms B had a choice about  buying  the policy and she chose to take it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms B got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions or limits  on the PPI cover  and it looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely Ms B wouldve made  a different decision if better  information  
had been provided. 
Ive taken into account that Ms B recalls she wouldve received three  to six months  pay from 
her employer if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. But the PPI wouldve 
covered her until she returned  to work,  so couldve been a useful benefit in addition to her 
existing arrangements. It also covered her if she became unemployed.
Overall I dont think Ms B has lost out by anything FICL might  have  done  wrong.
Ref: DRN11128152my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1112815