K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender  acted irresponsibly  when  it 
provided three loans  to him. Hes also unhappy about what happened when he was in a 
repayment plan.
background
Mr Lender provided three instalment loans to Mr G. From  some of the information provided, 
Ive prepared the table below to outline the borrowing history.  For ease of reference I've 
rounded the figures.
 date  
takenprincipal 
amountrepaidnumber  of repayments 
under the credit agreement highest 
repayment  
due
Loan  1 20/08/17 £300 30/11/17 6£106 
5/10/17
Loan  2 30/11/17 £300 06/12/19 6£117 
28/12/17
Loan  3 03/02/18 £1,000 outstanding 12£199 
22/3/18
Mr Lender doesnt agree  that it was irresponsible  when  it provided the loans  to Mr G. But in 
its final response letter (FRL) dated  17 October  2018 it made an offer to reduce the amount 
owed on the amount outstanding for Loan 3 to £702.50 which could be repaid through an 
affordable repayment  plan.  
On the day he received  the FRL, Mr G sent his complaint to us.  Around two weeks  later,  on 
1 November 2018, Mr Lender wrote  to Mr G telling him that he had until 16 November to 
respond to the FRL- if he failed to respond  his account would be placed  back into collection 
status and interest  applied at the contractual rate.  The  following day (2 November) Mr G 
replied to Mr Lender telling it to set up a £1 repayment plan.
Mr Lender responded  the same day to Mr G confirming that a plan was now set up and that 
£1 per month from 15 November would be payable.
Although the actions  werent related, this Service also sent a letter  to Mr Lender on 
2 November, informing  it of Mr Gs complaint and asking it to send us its file. It replied to us 
on 5 November to the effect  that Mr G had accepted an offer to settle his complaint.
There wasnt any contact between us and the parties until late January 2019. At this point 
Mr G told us about his debt having  been  sold on to 3rd party by Mr Lender.  He said he was 
waiting to hear back from us but wanted to share  with us the latest developments. He said 
hed made  the repayments under the plan early  each  month  in November, December  and 
January, but was now being told that his outstanding  balance had reverted to around  £1,500  
by a third party  debt collector.
In early May 2019  we told Mr Lender that we would look into the merits of Mr Gs complaint 
and it sent us its business file shortly after that.
Ref: DRN11717862One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Gs complaint and recommended  that Mr Lender  
reduce the outstanding balance on Loan 3 to £300. But it doesnt agree. It says that it isnt 
fair to ask it to write of part of the principal sum owed.
As agreement hasnt been  reached the case has come to me for a final decision. If Mr G 
accepts my decision it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr Gs complaint throughout  has been  that Mr Lender approved credit to him irresponsibly.  It 
seems that in November  2019 he agreed  to a repayment plan to settle  the outstanding 
balance on Loan  3. But I note that this was in response to the letter from Mr Lender  telling  
him he had to reply  by 16 November or his account would be returned  to collections. So I 
dont find it surprising that Mr G agreed a repayment  plan. However I'm satisfied that when 
he did this he wasnt agreeing to withdraw his complaint  he wasnt  accepting the action 
Mr Lender proposed  as  a full and final settlement of his complaint. Rather he was managing 
the debt whilst his main complaint  that Mr Lender  had lent to him irresponsibly  in the first 
place - was continuing.  
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr G 
could afford  to pay back each loan sustainably  before it lent to him. This meant that Mr G  
shouldve been  able to repay the loans out of income and or savings whilst also meeting his 
other normal outgoings and existing credit, without  undue  difficulty over the life of the credit 
agreement. Theres  no set list of what a lender should do to check affordability in every case.  
But checks  should be proportionate to things like the size of the loan, the repayments, what  
the lender knows  about the consumer  and what the consumer tells the lender about  their 
circumstances.
Mr Gs first two loans  were for £300.  They were both due to be repaid through six 
instalments the highest being  £106  on Loan  1 and £117 on Loan  2. Mr Lender says Mr G 
declared that his income was £1,922 per month and that after his expenses were accounted 
for he had a disposable income of £300 per month before Loan 1 and £207 before Loan 2. 
At the time of Loan 1, given the amount  being borrowed and the information Mr Lender says 
it had, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to conclude that Mr G would be in a position to 
sustainably afford to repay it. 
But I think that Mr Lender  shouldnt have provided Mr G with Loan 2. Mr G repaid Loan  1 
early and on the same day he took Loan 2. He says he applied  for £1,000 but a 
representative called him and it was agreed  that the loan would be for £300.  I find his 
recollection to be plausible but whether or not that is what  happened the fact remains that Mr 
Lender provided a high cost instalment loan (due to last 6 months)  to someone who was 
declaring that they only had £207  per month  left after all their usual outgoings.   I accept that 
the amounts repayable over the term gradually  reduced month on month. But in months  1 
and 2 Mr G was due to repay £117  and £106.  This left him with less than £100 to cover all 
his other  expenditure for the month.  I think its important to remember  that the sums  declared 
by him related  to regular expenditure and so were essentially  a minimum spend per month. 
Ref: DRN11717863So I dont  think Mr Lender was responsible  when  it provided Loan 2 to Mr G.
Mr G says he took Loan 3 after he received correspondence from Mr Lender to the effect 
that he was approved for a loan of £1,000.  He says that he was in very difficult  
circumstances and so he decided to apply and it was approved  very quickly. 
As I've explained above, Mr Lender  offered to remove  all interest  and charges and to apply 
payments made against the capital   leaving a capital amount outstanding  to be repaid  
through an agreed repayment plan. This is broadly in line with what  we would ask a business  
to do where we uphold a complaint about irresponsible lending. And ordinarily  I wouldnt 
usually go on to consider whether Mr Lender  had acted irresponsibly but in the 
circumstances of this case I think its important to think about  what  happened when Loan  3 
was approved and then how Mr Lender treated Mr G after he complained.   
At the point Mr G applied  for Loan  3, Mr Lender  says he declared  that his income  was 
£2,500 and that he had a disposable income  of £583. This loan of £1,000  was to be repaid  
over 12 months. So Mr G was applying for a much higher  amount  over a much  longer period 
even though his declared income and outgoings  suggested that he was in a much better 
financial position than he had been two months previously.
Mr Lender says it did a credit check and its shown  us the results of this. In particular I note 
that the outcome was identical to the two earlier checks it did. And the information  obtained  
was very narrow. I dont think the checks went far enough given the history.  And I think Mr 
Lender shouldve  done a much more thorough assessment of Mr Gs financial circumstances 
before approving Loan 3.
From documents, including  banks statements and a recent credit report  from Mr G, I can see 
that Mr G was in a very difficult financial situation  in January 2018. And had Mr Lender  done 
proportionate checks it wouldve  known this and not provided Loan 3. 
For example Mr G had taken a large  debt consolidation loan of over £7,000 in December 
2017  from which hed repaid Loan  2. In the month before he took Loan 3 he was paying  
several high cost credit cards, he borrowed over £1,200 from other short term and high cost 
lenders and he was in a debt management  plan.  I also note that a number of direct debits 
and standing orders were  returned unpaid. These included a telephone provider, a water 
utility company, a car insurance provider, his council tax. 
So, had Mr Lender done proportionate  checks it wouldve seen that Loan 3 couldnt be 
repaid sustainably by Mr G and indeed he failed  to repay his first instalment  as planned  
paying only interest on 22 February. After that he went into a repayment plan from May.  
So I'm satisfied that Mr Lender was wrong to provide Loan 3 to Mr G.
Our usual  approach to putting  things  right would be to require a lender to refund interest and 
charges made by a borrower on loans  found to be irresponsibly lent. We also ask 
businesses to add 8% interest  to that refund. But in cases  where there is an outstanding 
principal balance on one of those loans we would usually allow a lender to offset a refund  
against that principal  balance.  
In this case Mr G borrowed £1,000. From what Ive seen he has made some payments but 
not enough to repay  the entire principal even considering  those payments to be solely 
Ref: DRN11717864against the principal borrowed. And it seems  from its FRL that Mr Lender agreed that the 
payments made by Mr G meant that there  was around £700  of the principal still to pay. 
Ive mentioned above that Mr G is unhappy  with the way in which Mr Lender  handled  his 
loan after a repayment plan had been arranged in November 2018. I can see that the receipt  
of correspondence  from the third party  debt collector caused Mr G considerable distress and 
worry  especially given  his broader, very difficult financial  circumstances. 
Mr G has provided  bank  statements and I can see that he did make payments to Mr Lender  
in line with the plan it proposed but always  a week or so early.  So the proposal was to make 
a payment on 15 November: Mr G made it on 8 November. The same happened  in 
December and January  according to the bank statements.  
But I note from the transaction  history provided by Mr Lender that there doesnt appear to 
have been a payment received from Mr G after 6 December. And it seems that this was the 
point at which Mr Lender sold the debt to the third party. And Mr G was told by them on 
25 January that he now owed  them  (and not Mr Lender) £1,449.50.
I havent seen  any evidence to show that Mr Lender  contacted Mr G about any missed 
payments before selling  on the debt.  And Mr Lender  was aware that Mr G had an open 
complaint with us about irresponsible lending. In these circumstances I find that Mr G was 
caused considerable upset as a result  of Mr Lenders actions. I accept that it wasnt  Mr 
Lender that wrote to him in January  demanding payment.  But it had sold on the debt in the 
circumstances I've outlined. So I am going to take into account  the impact  this had on Mr G 
when coming to my decision about how Mr Lender  should put things right.
In the unusual and specific circumstances of this case I am going  to require Mr Lender  to 
write off some  of the principal owed.  I note that Mr Lender was unhappy  with this when it 
was recommended by our adjudicator.  But my role is to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. And whilst usually I wouldnt require a lender to write off capital, I think that, to 
address the trouble and upset caused to Mr G in relation  to a loan which should never  have 
been provided in the first place, the right thing to do in this case is to reduce the outstanding 
capital balance as Ill outline below.
Ref: DRN11717865putting things  right
I require PDL Finance  Limited to:
A.calculate all interest and charges Mr G paid in respect of Loan 2. [From  what I can he 
paid £14.40]. To that it must add 8% simple  interest a year, from the date Mr G paid 
them to the date it is applied to the outstanding balance  on Loan 3 as explained 
below
B.remove all interest and charges applied to the full outstanding balance  on Loan  3, 
then apply all payments received from Mr G as though they were  against the 
principal sum borrowed. This will leave  an outstanding principal balance
C.apply the refund calculated in A in respect of Loan 2 to the outstanding principal 
balance on Loan 3 calculated at B
D.if the outstanding balance on Loan 3 calculated at C is more  than £300,  it should 
write off any sum above £300 to leave an outstanding principal balance of £300.  A 
mutually agreeable repayment plan should then be arranged. 
E.remove any adverse entries relating to Loan  2 from Mr Gs credit file.
F.remove any adverse entries relating to Loan  3 from Mr Gs credit file once repayment 
of the outstanding balance of £300  has been repaid.
If the debt relating to Loan 3 is still owned by the third party Mr Lender may consider buying 
it back in order to carry out my requirements  A to D. But if it doesnt buy back the debt it 
should come  to some agreement directly with the third party to ensure that the balance 
sought by the third party from Mr G is reduced to £300. 
To be clear Mr G should not be required to repay  any more than £300 in respect  of Loan 3. 
And this should  be through  a mutually  agreeable repayment plan. I would remind Mr Lender 
of its obligations  to treat Mr G in a positive and sympathetic way
my final decision
For the reasons  above I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and I require PDL Finance Limited 
to put things right as outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1171786