K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank Plc closed  his account without providing proper notice or 
giving reasons for its decision. 
He complains too that the bank registered  a default marker with credit reference agencies.    
background
In April 2017 TSB took the decision to block and then close  Mr Ds accounts.  At the time 
Mr Ds savings account was in credit, but his current account was overdrawn.  TSB lifted the 
block to allow him to withdraw  money  from the savings account. 
In August  2017  TSB wrote to Mr D to say it would be closing the current account  and to 
demand repayment of the outstanding overdraft. Mr D complained about the blocking of the 
accounts and the decision to close them. In a letter of 5 September  2017 TSB said that it 
had explained  the position in April and that formal  demand for repayment had been made in 
August 2017.  The letter  said too that TSB would refund the charges that had accrued from 
April, but that it required  repayment of the balance due on the account. It would send a 
cheque for the charges refund.  
The letter of 5 September 2017 also said that it was TSBs last word  on the matter and that 
Mr D could refer his complaint to this service if he wished to do so  but he would need to do 
that within six months. 
In July 2018 Mr D found  out that TSB had applied a default marker  to his credit  file. He 
thought this was unfair and complained to the bank. In November 2018 he referred  the 
matter to this service. 
One of our investigators  considered what had happened. In summary, he concluded:
The complaint about the closure of the account had been referred to this service more 
than six months after the letter  of 5 September 2017. That meant that we had no power  
to consider it. 
He didnt  think TSB had treated  Mr D unfairly  by registering the default. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review  
them.   
my findings
account block and closure
The rules  under which I must consider  Mr Ds complaint  are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook,  and specifically in that part of the Handbook dealing with dispute 
resolution  known as DISP rules. The DISP rules include rules about the extent of my 
powers to decide  complaints, including rules  about  time limits.  
DISP 2.8.2 says that I cannot generally consider a complaint  which is referred to the 
ombudsman service more  than six months  after the date on which the financial business 
complained about has issued its final response. Thats a term defined in the Handbook, 
meaning a written response that acknowledges the complaint, provides a response to it and 
Ref: DRN10292522indicates that the complaint should be referred  to this service within six months. Im satisfied 
that TSBs  letter of 5 September  2017 met that definition. 
I note that TSB sent a second final response in January 2018,  this time dealing  with the 
refund of interest  and charges and a query about  paying off the overdraft. Again, it met the 
relevant definition. 
Mr D didnt refer his complaint to us until November 2019, some months outside the relevant 
time limit.  
I can disregard time limits in some cases  for example,  where the delay in referring the 
complaint to this service  is the result  of exceptional  circumstances.  But I dont believe there  
are any in this case. It follows therefore that this part of Mr Ds complaint was referred to this 
service out of time and that I therefore  have no power to consider it.   
registering a default     
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
view as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Mr D has says that he hadnt missed any payments and that his overdraft was within the 
agreed limit when TSB demanded payment. An overdraft  is a debt; but it doesnt operate in 
the same  way as a loan or credit  card, for example. It doesnt  require regular  fixed  or 
minimum payments. The overdraft was payable on demand;  that is, TSB was entitled  to ask 
Mr D to repay it in full simply by giving  notice to him. At that point, he owed the money hed 
borrowed from the bank.  
TSB contacted Mr D about  repaying the overdraft on several occasions, but it didnt receive  
payment. In the circumstances, I dont believe it treated Mr D unfairly  by registering a default 
or by passing the debt to debt collectors.  It may be that they can arrange a suitable 
repayment plan,  but I cant  properly say that TSB acted unfairly. 
my final decision
For these reasons, Ive decided that the Financial Ombudsman Service  has no power to 
consider Mr Ds complaint  about the blocking and closure of his accounts or the refund of 
interest and charges. 
In respect of Mr Ds complaint about  the registration  of a default, my final decision is that I 
dont require TSB Bank Plc to take any further steps to resolve it. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN10292523Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1029252