K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Succession Wealth Management Ltd (Succession Wealth)  has 
provided  him with incomplete and inconsistent  information about his intended 
retirement plan,  delayed  the start of his annuities  and provided  poor service  resulting  
in a financial  loss and significant  distress  and inconvenience.
background
In October  2018, Mr S employed Succession  Wealth  to assist  with his retirement 
planning.  He had four pension plans,  two of which included a Guaranteed Annuity Rate  
("GAR"). Succession Wealth  advised Mr S to leave these plans with the current  provider 
whom Ill call provider A and to transfer  the plans without a GAR to another provider, 
whom Ill call provider B, on the basis that he'd receive a better annual income.
Mr S says the brief he gave his financial adviser was to provide as seamless as 
possible a transition from working life to retirement.  He was to retire in January 
2019 and hoped to begin receiving an income  from his pension  plans from 
February/March 2019.
Mr S says he completed  the relevant forms for both providers on time and chose 
to take tax-free cash ("TFC") and buy an annuity on all four plans.  But, things 
didn't work  out as planned because  Succession  Wealth sent incomplete retirement 
forms to the providers  and caused  delays,  which resulted in him missing the initial  
quotes he agreed to with both providers. 
Provider B was unable  to provide an income,  due to incomplete information until April 2019. 
When it did, the TFC was £22 more than the original quote  but the annuity income was £79 
less each year. Mr S didnt receive the TFC and annuity income  from provider A, until August 
2019. In both cases, this was because the original quotes had expired following delays in the 
providers receiving the necessary information. When the information was eventually 
received the quotes had to be revised,  this resulted in a slightly higher TFC but a lower 
annuity payment.  Mr S also had to pay an upfront fee of £1420.77, which was different to the 
3% charge  he was quoted. 
Mr S complained to Succession Wealth but after receiving a letter confirming  receipt and 
advising they needed more time to deal with his complaint, he has not heard anything 
further. Mr S says this matter has caused  him a great deal of distress and inconvenience 
and so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into matters for Mr S. She reviewed information  from all parties and 
was provided with information  from both the receiving providers. She concluded that 
Success Wealth had provided  a very poor service to Mr S and caused unnecessary delays 
to the provision of his TFCs and annuity  income from both providers. 
She said Succession Wealth should approach  both providers  to get the relevant  information 
about the TFC and the annuity Mr S wouldve received  if it had sent all the required 
information within 30 days of the original quotes. It should then compare this to the TFC and 
annuity Mr S received  to work out if hed suffered a past and future loss. This means  it would 
have to:
Ref: DRN17565612work  out the total that Mr S received to date - this will be a combination  of any 
tax-free lump sum and the annuity  payments,  net of tax
work  out the total that Mr S could have  received to date had the annuity 
purchase  not been deferred   again,  this will be a combination of any tax-free 
lump sum and the annuity payments, net of tax
She said, if there has been a loss, then Succession Wealth  should pay the difference, 
plus 8% simple  interest. In order to ensure that Mr S doesn't suffer  a loss going 
forward, Succession  Wealth  should  also:
work  out the cost now of replacing the annuity in payment using Mr S's 
current  age
work  out the cost now of purchasing the annuity  Mr S could be receiving had it 
not been delayed,  again using his current age
If this calculation shows that Mr S would continue to suffer a loss because of the delay,  
then Succession Wealth may need  to buy an additional annuity alongside his current 
annuities  as a supplement, or pay a one-off lump  sum.
The investigator  also found  the poor service  and delays  had caused  Mr S significant  
distress  and inconvenience,  for which  she said Succession  Wealth,  should  pay £500  
compensation.
Mr S accepted  the investigators  findings.  He said he felt sheer  relief  that the trouble  and 
upset  this matter  has caused  him has been  recognised  and that a resolution  was in 
sight.
Succession  Wealth  didnt  respond  to the investigators  view.
As Succession  Wealth  didnt  respond,  the matter  has been  passed  for an ombudsman  
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh, and considered the evidence from the two receiving providers. Having done 
so, Im in agreement with the investigators  view.  Ill explain why.
I have to take into account  relevant  law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and (where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been  good 
industry practice.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, Ive considered the information  provided by both Mr S and Succession Wealth  
alongside the timeline of events provided  by the two providers.
Ref: DRN17565613On 21 January 2019, Succession Wealth provided Mr S with a recommendation report.  It 
told Mr S the two pension  plans with a GAR, should remain with provider A and the two 
other plans  should  be transferred to provider  B. It went onto say to meet  his retirement  
objectives; Mr S should take TFC and buy an annuity on all of his plans.
Succession Wealth went on to obtain  TFC and annuity quotes from both providers in 
January 2019.  The quotes received each had a 30-day  guaranteed  period. Succession 
Wealth retuned the relevant instruction forms to both providers. I have carefully reviewed  
both forms and its clear there  are several key items  of information, necessary for the 
providers to carry out the instructions, missing.  
I have looked  at evidence from Provider  B to show it wrote  to Succession Wealth  on 
14 February requesting  the missing information, but Succession Wealth  did not provide this, 
until 14 March 2019. I can see Provider  B received  the transferred funds on 1 April 2019, 
but because the quote had expired, it didnt agree to honour  it as it said Succession Wealth 
was responsible for the delays. It provided a revised quote, which Succession Wealth 
accepted on 11 April 2019, and paid the TFC and the annuity shortly afterwards.
So, from what Ive seen  Succession Wealth was responsible for the delays in respect of 
provider B.
Provider A, was the original provider of all four-pension plans. Ive looked at the 
Benefits Instruction form it received from Succession Wealth on 12 February 2019. There is 
information missing and so provider A sent new annuity forms on 22 February 2019 and 
went on to make Succession Wealth aware of the information it needed  on 8 March  2019.
Succession Wealth requested a revised  annuity  quote and new annuity  and LTA forms on 
2 April 2019. There doesnt appear to be any further communication  until 11 June 2019  
when Succession  Wealth  requests  another revised quote. I havent seen and information to 
explain why Succession  Wealth wasnt able to provide the missing information or indeed why 
there was a delay  between  April and June  2019.
On 25 June 2019, Mr S, who explains he was increasingly frustrated  in not getting  any 
response or explanation from Succession Wealth,  contacted provide A directly. He asked 
for assistance in competing the annuity forms and returned them on 1 July 2019 but 
unfortunately, there remained  missing information.  I can see, eventually, the information was 
provided on 23 July 2019 and the TFC was paid on 1 August 2019,  with the annuity shortly 
after.
So, from what Ive seen  Succession Wealth are also responsible for the delay in necessary 
information being provided to allow provider A to pay the TFC and annuity  to Mr S and this 
also directly led to a revised quote being  issued.
Secondly, Ive looked at the communication between Succession Wealth and Mr S and I 
have to say I find it falls woefully short of being  fair and reasonable. It has failed to provide 
Mr S with a final response to his complaint and didnt take any steps to address his concerns 
or provide any explanation of why the delays occurred.  This is further compounded when I 
consider what Mr S says his brief was in the first place to his advisor, namely to ensure a 
smooth transition  of his finances into full retirement.
Ref: DRN17565614Mr S has explained he has health  issues that have been exacerbated by the stress and 
inconvenience of trying to resolve what should have been a relatively straightforward matter.  
I can understand from what he has said how difficult a time this has been for him.
Im not satisfied Succession  Wealth has acted fairly  and reasonably  in the circumstances of 
this complaint. In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should 
be to put Mr S as close to the position  he would probably now be in if the delays hadnt  
occurred and in effect he had received his TFC and annuity  based on the original quotes 
given in January  2019.
To do this, I direct Succession Wealth to:
approach both providers to obtain the relevant  information about the TFC and 
annuity Mr S wouldve  received if all the information had been  provided within  the 
window of the 30 day guaranteed quote  provided on 21 January 2019.
calculate the total that Mr S received to date - this will be a combination of 
any tax-free lump sum and the annuity  payments, net of tax
calculate the total that Mr S could  have received to date had the annuity 
purchase  not been delayed  again,  this will be a combination  of any tax-free 
lump sum and the annuity payments, net of tax
if there has been a loss, Succession  Wealth must pay the difference  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date each payment should have been made to the date 
of settlement..
In order to ensure  Mr S doesnt  suffer a future loss, Succession Wealth must:
calculate the cost now of replacing  the annuity  in payment using Mr S's 
current    age
calculate the cost now of purchasing the annuity Mr S could be receiving had 
it not been delayed,  again using his current age
Succession Wealth should arrange  an additional  annuity to make  good the future  
loss. If that is not possible a payment  should  be made to Mr S as a cash  sum for 
the cost of buying the additional  income using an annuity.  The payment should  
be reduced to allow  for the tax Mr S would have paid on the annuity payments he 
has received. the cost of providing  the annuity  should use the same terms and 
the same  provider as the annuity  actually  purchased.
Further,  I direct  Succession  Wealth  to:
pay Mr S £500  for the significant  trouble  and upset  this matter  has caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I uphold the complaint.  My decision is that Succession  Wealth  
Management Limited should pay the amount calculated  as set out above. 
Succession Wealth Management Limited should  provide details  of its calculation to Mr S in a 
clear, simple  format.
Ref: DRN17565615Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1756561