K822xcomplaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs and Mr C hold jointly with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
The complaint is that Barclays allowed Mr C to draw over £4,700  on the overdraft facility  of 
the linked  Mortgage Current Account (MCA) in 2013 after Mrs C had informed the bank of a 
marital dispute. 
background 
Mrs C contacted Barclays in 2013  to tell it she and Mr C were  in a relationship dispute, and 
that the MCA should be capped. It wasnt, and Mr C was able to make a series  of 
withdrawals totalling  £4,700. Mrs C didnt pursue the matter further at the time, but in 2018, 
went back to the bank to ask how much  extra interest shed become liable for because of the 
2013 withdrawals.
Barclays accepted  it shouldnt have allowed Mr C to make the withdrawals.  It said it wouldnt 
waive the £4,700 altogether; it would still be repayable upon the sale of the property and 
redemption of the mortgage. But it agreed  not to pursue Mrs C for the extra money or the 
interest on it. It also offered Mrs C £500  compensation.
When Mrs C complained  to us, we explained  that, as this was a joint mortgage,  Mr C should  
join the complaint  too. He did so, and the complaint was brought  on their behalf by their son, 
whom Ill call Mr D to avoid confusion.
Barclays agreed to increase its compensation offer from £500 to £800,  due to some 
shortcomings our adjudicator identified in the way it handled matters in 2018. She said the 
bank was slow to respond to Mrs Cs new letter and failed to check whether the marital 
dispute marker needed to be restored. The adjudicator considered this a fair settlement in all 
the circumstances, but Mr D doesnt  agree  and wants  the matter  reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Im aware of having  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented. No 
discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
havent mentioned  something,  it isnt because Ive ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt  think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  
Were impartial, we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a complaint, 
and we dont regulate or punish financial businesses. Ive considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In some ways, this is a tricky situation for the Financial Ombudsman Service.  On the one 
hand, we have a complaint from Mrs and Mr C about what  Barclays has done (or failed to 
do) and we are here to deal with things  like that. On the other hand, though, we have a 
complaint from Mrs C about what Mr C has done, and we most definitely  arent  here to deal 
with things like that. 
Ref: DRN13971702Barclays has admitted getting  things wrong in 2013,  such that Mr C was able to borrow  
money without Mrs C knowing. That doesnt  mean Barclays  shouldnt be repaid  that money 
and the interest  on it. It just means the bank shouldnt try to recover  it from Mrs C personally 
(and its agreed not to do that). But Barclays can still pursue Mr C for the debt (including 
interest) formed by the 2013 withdrawals, and in any event can fairly  expect to be paid back  
in full in the event that the house  is sold. At that point, itll be for Mrs and Mr C to decide any 
financial settlement between them.
I dont doubt for one moment  that this has been  a very stressful  and upsetting  experience for 
Mrs C. But I must also keep in mind that what happened is as much  a consequence of what  
Mr C did as is it a consequence of what the bank  did. In that context, the proposed  total 
compensation of £800 payable to Mrs C is, in all the circumstances,  fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs C £800.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1397170