K821x#15Complaint
Mr K has complained about the advice he received from Portafina  LLP to transfer  a defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  The funds within the SIPP  were then used to invest  in 
several unregulated  collective investment  schemes  (UCIS).
Mr K is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr K.
Background
Mr K was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after hed been in contact with another  business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were  permitted to 
provide pension transfer advice. 
A fact-find  was completed which noted  that Mr K was 42 years old, single  with two children, 
and earned approximately £55,200  per annum. He had no recorded  savings or investments. 
It was noted Mr K held retained benefits within an OPS, which had offered a Cash  
Equivalent Transfer  Value (CETV) of £29,797. This was projected to provide a pension of 
£3,112 per year from age 60. The fact-find recorded  that Mr K wanted to retire at age 62.
Mr K held another, separate  OPS with a different  former employer which  was projected to 
provide an income  of £3,034 from age 65. This pension  wasnt included as part of the 
transfer and Portafina recommended that he leave it with his employer.
Portafina carried out a risk-profiling  exercise  and determined  Mr K had a moderately 
adventurous attitude to risk (ATR). Portafina  wrote  to Mr K on 19 January 2015 to 
recommend that he transfer his OPS benefits into a new SIPP. It also said that the 
investment advice would be provided  to him by Firm C.
The new SIPP  was opened in February 2015 and the CETV of £31,882.81  was transferred 
on 19 August 2015. The following investments were made later that year, with the remainder 
held as cash:
UCIS
Brisa Investments  £2,400
Biomass Investments  £3,500 
UK Strategic  Residential  £3,500
Lakeview UK Holdings   £3,500
Motion Picture Global  £3,500 
Regulated Investments
Beaufort Total Return Portfolio  Highest  Risk - £15,401.68
In January 2019, Mr K complained to Portafina  that the advice to transfer his OPS benefits 
was unsuitable  for him and had his needs and circumstances been considered, the
recommendation would not have been made. However, Portafina rejected  his complaint,
saying the transfer was suitable for him and met his objectives of consolidating his pension, 
taking control of the investment and obtaining  superior death  benefits. It also said that it 
Ref: DRN17763122wasnt responsible  for providing any investment advice, as this was the responsibility of 
Firm C. Mr K then brought his complaint to this service.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She didnt think 
Portafina had sufficiently demonstrated that transferring Mr Ks OPS  benefits into a SIPP  
was in his best interests. She noted  that Mr K was 42 and could not access  his benefits  for 
another 13 years, so there was no need  for him to transfer at that time. She did not think  that 
he should have  been classed as having  a moderately adventurous ATR. And she believed  
that the required critical yield and the lower hurdle rate were unachievable, given they were 
both higher than Portafinas own estimated rate of return.
The investigator didnt  think the recommendation was in line with Mr Ks objectives,  as he 
only transferred one pension, so was not consolidating his pensions. She also noted  that 
Portafina should have considered the underlying investments,  as it was not possible to 
provide suitable  advice  without knowing where the funds  were going to be invested.
Portafina didnt  agree. It said that a transfer  was the only means of ensuring Mr K could 
achieve his objectives of consolidating his pension, take on investment risk, improve  death 
benefits and access  his pension flexibly. The critical yield hadnt been  used  and the 
recommendation was based on the hurdle rate of 6.55%. Their model portfolio had projected 
a rate of return of 6.445%  and this was based  on Mr Ks own ATR. Portafina  maintained  it 
shouldnt be held responsible for the investment advice which was to be provided by Firm C.
Because the parties dont  agree, the case has come to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Portafina advised Mr K to transfer his OPS  to a SIPP  but says it didnt  provide  any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Ks underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portafinas responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds  transferred, and the money then made available  
for investment. I believe that as Mr Ks financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable,  notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. 
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying
Firm C would  provide specific investment advice, it set out its own fund  recommendations 
for the asset classes  Mr K should invest  in and to what extent, suggesting that, due to his 
risk profile, Mr K invest in the following assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 70%
Other Fixed Interest   5%
Secured Structured  Bonds 15%
Ref: DRN17763123Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated  collective investments and could 
only be recommended  by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs)  
such as itself. It said that while secured bonds  werent covered by the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations  relating to them were. It added that 
secured bonds  werent volatile and therefore reduced the overall volatility of Mr Ks portfolio.
The recommendations made up a model portfolio for a moderately  adventurous investor,  
which Portafina satisfied  itself Mr K was. And its partly on this basis  that, if Mr K invested in 
line with a suitable model portfolio and achieved the relevant  targeted returns, Portafina 
concluded that transferring could increase his overall pension benefits and therefore  be 
worthwhile.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator  had made its view clear  that it considered in order 
to suitably advise  on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers  () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
Portafina appears to have  been under the impression that, as it told Mr K it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled  it to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
Portafina says that this alert was specific to situations where  the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. It believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Mr Ks transaction from the 
scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess  the 
overall suitability  of the proposed investments. Whilst  Ive given that possibility careful 
thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable  investment advice  generally  requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
Ref: DRN17763124overall proposition  when  advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other  
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Ks case).  It further  refers  to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance  that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases,  regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where  the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated  investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch  and transfer advice,  but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, 
I think this alert is relevant  to firms  in the position  of Portafina in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014,  which  stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying  
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr K under the regulatory  system. So, saying it was operating  under  a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable - again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mr Ks funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was
suitable for Mr K. To achieve  this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain  enough  
information from Mr K to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could  bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
COBS 9.2.2R included  the following wording:
(...) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include,  where  
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Ks objectives - one of 
which was a willingness  to take more risk - and the related risks. It wasnt  free to ignore how 
Mr Ks funds  were going to be invested  irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the 
underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, 
so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer  without knowing what Mr K would invest  in 
within the wrapper,  doesnt in my mind seem reasonably possible.
Ref: DRN17763125Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above. Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind.
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Ks transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated 
and able to provide investment advice  with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw 
no issue with this.
Portafina also says that its advisers  carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, including 
background checks on the company  directors, accounts and information  about previous 
complaints. It maintains  that Portafina followed FCA guidelines when only advising on the 
pension transfer  by performing the attitude  to risk assessment. It said Firm C wasnt  bound  
by this assessment  and could have recommended any investments they thought were 
suitable for Mr K. Portafina says it was satisfied Firm C was qualified to provide investment 
advice and the FCA allows for one regulated firm to assess the pension transfer and the 
other to provide  investment  advice.
Portafina hasnt  provided us with evidence of the due diligence  it carried out on Firm C in 
connection with this complaint. But even if Portafina  had carried the general  due diligence 
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in 
the alerts. The checks it made on Firm C weren't specific to the investments envisaged  for 
Mr K. I also havent seen any evidence that further checks  were  made  by Portafina to satisfy  
itself that the pension  transfer advice it was giving to clients  was aligned  with the investment 
advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary part of the 
suitability assessment carried out by Portafina for individual  clients. But I think  it was also a 
reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship it had with 
Firm C. This wouldve highlighted  any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned  advice, which 
could be identified and addressed.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ks appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ks best interests. And as Ive said,  this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Ks funds would  be invested. 
I recognise that the FCA allows  for two advisers  to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However,  the alerts  makes it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware  of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order  to provide suitable  advice.  So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt  fully 
understand the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  the SIPP,  it 
should not have offered advice on the pension transfer all. So, in the absence  of Portafina 
knowing the investments  Firm C intended for Mr K, I dont think  it could provide him with 
suitable advice  to transfer his OPS.
Ref: DRN17763126As part of its duty of care to Mr K, I consider that Portafina shouldve at the very least asked 
Firm C at the outset for details of the model  portfolios  it adopted for various risk categories.  
And in doing so it ought to have  checked  these lined up with what it considered  to suit each 
risk group. Further to this Portafina shouldve also asked for the details of the portfolio 
intended for Mr K and the proposed investments. Portafina couldnt  reasonably  assess  the 
suitability of the transfer it was recommending without  doing so. 
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, over half of Mr Ks SIPP  was 
invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010  UCIS findings are relevant here. The regulator  
said that as well as UCIS  only being eligible for promotion to certain customers  (generally 
sophisticated, high net worth  investors),  as an example, even when a customer  was deemed 
eligible for the promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's  exposure  to 
these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement  provision. In Mr Ks case over half his 
SIPP, 51%, was invested in UCIS.  I dont think a UCIS was suitable for Mr K at all, let alone 
in the proportion invested. Theres nothing  to indicate Mr K had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept  or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information  about the proposed  investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest Mr K at over three times the level of UCIS funds they 
might have expected,  it couldve queried this, given how at odds it was with what it 
determined an appropriate  asset  allocation for Mr K was.  
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Ks risk rating  as moderately adventurous 
and will explain  why later.  However, I think that had appropriate enquiries  been made,  it 
wouldve become  apparent  something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal  and that the 
transfer was therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr K being exposed to more risk than 
Portafina considered  appropriate. 
I think its likely that, having  realised how significantly the investments Firm C intended to 
make differed from those  it had based  its suitability assessment  on, Portafina couldve taken 
preventative action or at the very least made Mr K aware of the situation so he could, if 
servicing rights had already been  transferred to Firm C, take corrective action himself.  
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition Firm C intended for Mr K. It shouldve asked Firm C for the specifics  
of this or, as a minimum,  an outline  of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C had given 
it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected  Portafina  to have advised 
Mr K that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his OPS in those circumstances. If 
Portafina had warned  Mr K against  investing  in line with Firm Cs proposal,  I think  its more 
likely than not that Mr K wouldve listened  to it and not gone ahead with the transfer. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr K when assessing  the suitability of the proposed transfer  meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  as a solution  to Mr Ks 
needs was being made  on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given  the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Ks SIPP  was invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ks funds were ultimately  invested. Portafinas recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important  consideration. And were it not for the 
Ref: DRN17763127transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding  this, Im not 
persuaded Mr K wouldve  ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to transfer
OPS typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS  guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When  advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
So, the starting point  is that a transfer  wont usually be suitable. Generally, a transfer will 
only be in the consumers best interests  if theres a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr K was 42 years  old, employed and in good health. He 
was a standard retail investor with twenty  years  until his intended  retirement age and could 
not access his benefits  until age 55 at the earliest.  He had another preserved  pension, which 
was projected to pay £3,034 a year from age 65. There was no record  of Mr K having  any 
other savings or investments and although  he was a home  owner, it was noted that the value 
of his property  was lower  than his outstanding  mortgage, so it was in negative  equity.  
It seems  to me Mr Ks OPS was his most valuable asset. It provided a guaranteed income at 
retirement with increases,  as well as a dependents  pension should he pass away before his 
children reached 18. Based on this, I think Portafina  should have recognized  the significance 
of Mr Ks OPS and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his OPS  meant  that Mr K would be losing his guarantees and would instead  be 
relying on investment  performance from a new scheme. But I dont think  his situation  lent 
itself to taking such  risks. I think it shouldve been clear that while Mr K may have been open 
to taking some risk, he wasnt prepared or able to take a significant  amount of risk. 
The report  showed  that a critical yield of 10% per year was required to match the benefits 
from the OPS. But it did not make  any allowance for advice, plan or other ongoing charges. 
This meant the growth needed just to match the benefits being  given up was understated. 
Like the adjudicator,  I feel the growth required to provide an increase in benefits  for Mr K 
was too high to make  the transfer viable.
Furthermore, and as the regulator has made plain, when considering whether to make a 
personal recommendation to transfer  away from a defined  benefit scheme, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which  may replicate the benefits being  given up from an OPS as 
sufficient in itself (COBS  19.1.7B G). In light of that, I think  its important to emphasise that 
the starting point for the transfer advice in this case ought to have been that it was 
unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6G). So I think Portafina  ought to have made Mr K aware that it was 
in his best interest to preserve his OPS  benefits.
Ref: DRN17763128The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even  if the personal pension had achieved the highest 
maximum growth at that time, it was unlikely  Mr K would receive a materially  higher pension 
at retirement as a result  of transferring. This is supported in the suitability report where 
Portafina estimated  that, based  on Mr Ks moderately adventurous attitude to risk, his 
personal pension  would  grow at a rate of 6.445%.
Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate instead of the critical yield,  
saying this was a more accurate means of measuring  the ceding  schemes  benefits  and was 
appropriate for Mr Ks situation, as he preferred the flexibility of varying  his income.
Putting aside the fact that I do not believe the critical yield can simply be disregarded, this 
lower target of 6.55% was still higher than the level of growth Portafina believed  was 
achievable, based on their own projection  of 6.445%.  At no point within the recommendation 
did Portafina acknowledge  that the projected  growth rate was lower than the target rate and 
it was likely that Mr K would receive  less money in retirement by transferring out. In fact, the 
opposite was stated,  when page 17 of the Suitability Report  noted:
The gross investment  return  after charges required to match your scheme's benefits based  
on the agreed planning assumptions is 6.55% per year.  Therefore  we believe that a transfer 
could be able to increase  the overall pension and tax free cash  benefits available to you
While the difference  between  6.55%  and 6.445% appears slight,  it should be borne in mind 
that the projection does not make  any allowance for scheme  management, or other related 
charges and the net growth figure  for the benchmark would be lower.  
In its response to the adjudicators original  investigation, Portafina stated that the proposed  
scheme charges  had been factored into the Transfer  Value Analysis report (TVAS) 
projections, as listed on page 25 of the report. I have read the TVAS and page 25 does  not 
make any reference to growth rates or charges. I cannot find any reference  elsewhere within  
the document which supports this statement. By comparison, page 17 of the Suitability 
Report states that scheme charges have not been included in the projected  growth  rate:
Future Assumed Investment Returns: we believe a suitable "model portfolio" for you could
achieve targeted returns of 6.445% before initial and on-going  advice charges and plan 
charges.
 
Given this, Mr K was clearly not going  to be able to match the benefits he was giving up by 
transferring out. Although both the critical yield and the hurdle rate were higher than the level 
of growth a moderately  adventurous  investor  could reasonably expect to achieve, I still feel it 
is necessary to confirm  that Mr K should  not have  been  classed  as being able to accept this 
level of risk in the first place.
Portafinas report defines moderately  adventurous investors as usually being  fairly 
experienced, who have used a wide range  of investment products. They  have moderate to 
high levels  of financial knowledge and are willing to take on investment risk. They  will usually 
take gambles  and accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long-term 
investment.
Ref: DRN17763129Mr K had no investments  and could not be described as being an experienced investor.  The 
report presented to him on 19 January  2015 shows that, when asked about his tolerance 
and capacity for loss, he confirmed that he could only accept losses of up to 20% and 
wanted to a have a portfolio that avoided too much volatility. Neither of these responses are 
in line with a moderately adventurous ATR.
I think it would have  been clear to Portafina  that Mr K could not realistically  be classed as a 
moderately adventurous investor. Giving advice is not a tick box exercise and the fact a risk 
profile questionnaire  had marked  him out as having a higher ATR should  not have 
overridden the evidence Mr K had provided  to Portafina about his own attitude  to risk.
Mr K stated  in his complaint that he had a low ATR. I have considered this and believe that, 
given the length of time until retirement,  his stated acceptance of losses up to 20% of his 
pension, as well as his other (smaller) OPS plan, he was probably  able to accept medium  
risk investments.
As per the COBS guidance  applicable  at the time, 19.1.7:
When a firm advises  a retail client on a pension  transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the client's attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment  growth  that would
have to be achieved  to replicate the benefits  being given up."
As noted previously, even a moderately adventurous portfolio could not be expected to grow  
by enough to match either the critical yield, or the hurdle rate. Using  a lower  and more 
accurate medium growth rate of 5% simply makes the gap larger.  Based on this, not only 
was the critical yield of 10% unachievable, I think the lower  hurdle rate of 6.55% was also 
above the level of growth  which could reasonably be expected for a medium  risk investor.
Portafina have  argued that Mr K wanted to access his pension  flexibly, which gave him a 
much longer  investment horizon of twenty  to thirty years, based on mortality in his mid-
eighties. Although  the Suitability Report  recorded  that Mr K preferred a drawdown 
arrangement over an annuity  and wanted flexibility, I dont think this was explored by 
Portafina in any meaningful sense.  I also dont think Mr K could say with certainty, having at 
least 12 years before  he could access his TFC and around 20 years before he planned to 
retire, that he was definitely  going  to take his benefits via income  drawdown.  
Portafina also didnt  appear to establish  what Mr Ks future liabilities  and income 
requirements were likely to be. So, despite  having twenty years until he intended to retire  
and him having  a longer  investment horizon to potentially build up additional pension 
provision, Portafina  couldnt say with confidence that transferring was necessary to meet  his 
future income needs or that he wasnt likely  to be heavily  dependent on his OPS in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was right to make the assumption  that Mr K would, more likely than not, 
take his benefits via drawdown when he retired. I also think  Portafina ought to have advised 
him that, it would be more  suitable for Mr K to secure a guaranteed  income.  And so I think  
Portafina shouldve  based its comparison of benefits  on the critical yield rather  than the 
lifetime hurdle rate.
The adjudicator has highlighted  the fact that Mr K was 42 and could not access his pension
benefits until age 55 and Portafina  have  not offered any explanation why it was necessary  to
transfer at this stage  of his life. It was stated  in the report that Mr K wanted the ability  to take
Ref: DRN177631210his benefits flexibly  and at a different age to his ceding schemes  retirement age. However, 
I dont think there was any benefit to Mr K transferring  at this time, when he could not access  
his pension for almost  13 years. And as Mr K was giving  up benefits he had little chance of 
replicating on the open market, there  needed  to be strong reasons to transfer  out. In my 
view, none of the reasons  listed, either individually or collectively, provide sufficient 
justification for the recommendation.
The Suitability Report  states the ability to draw income from age 55 would be a useful 
benefit and that the flexibility to do so was important  to you. However,  there was no 
explanation of why it was important to him. Even  if a reason had been provided, it was 
almost 13 years away, so I think it could have been  delayed until that time.
Mr Ks stated  intended retirement age was 62 - 20 years from the time of advice. It was 
noted that Mr K wanted to retire later than his scheme retirement age of 60, but there was no 
explanation why it would be detrimental to him to receive his pension  for two years  while  he 
was still working. All the projections  provided  at the time only looked  to match  the level of 
income provided by his OPS, so this two years of lost income, over £6,000, would not be 
replaced by a higher regular income  from age 62. So, I think transferring out and delaying 
taking income therefore disadvantaged Mr K financially.
One of Mr Ks listed objectives  was taking control  of his pensions  and to consolidate plans 
into one. But only one of his pensions was being transferred into the SIPP, so I dont think 
this objective was being met. In fact it created additional work for Mr K, as he now had to 
manage his own pension funds.
It was stated that Mr K liked the additional death benefits that transferring out would provide. 
It is true that he had no need for the spouses  pension offered by his OPS and that by taking 
the CETV, he would  be able to provide a higher lump to his children on death. However, this 
was not simply an all or nothing decision and I cannot see that Mr K was made aware  that 
his existing scheme would also pay an income to his children of 50% of the pension while 
they were dependent. So they could still receive  a death benefit from his scheme  for a 
further ten years, until his youngest child turned 18. 
There was also no discussion of how likely it was that Mr K would not live to his scheme 
retirement age, as opposed  to passing  away and losing  any death benefits. Its 
understandable that a parent should  want to provide  for their children in the event of their 
death, but this possibility  should be weighed against  the actual benefits  lost and the 
likelihood of them living  long enough  to use up the cash within their fund and reduce the 
value of any legacy.  With a projected life expectancy  of 81, Mr K was likely to be reliant  on 
this fund for income  long past the point when his children  ceased to be dependent  on him.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability, and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have recommended the transfer  at all.
Ive thought about whether, if hed been  correctly advised by Portafina,  Mr K would  have 
gone ahead  with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances  in 
this case, I dont believe he would. Theres nothing to suggest that he was seriously
considering transferring out of his OPS prior to being referred to Portafina  for a pension  
review. It is clear  from the available information that he had not given any serious thought 
about what he wanted to do with his pension and had not determined  how he wanted to take 
his benefits at retirement.
Ref: DRN177631211As a professional adviser  which,  unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr K from proceeding with the transfer  and subsequent investments.  The fact that 
Portafina did advise  against transferring Mr Ks other preserved OPS and he accepted  this 
recommendation demonstrates  that the actions he took were  as a result  of Portafinas advice 
and not any other party.  Alternatively,  had Mr K proceeded  against  such  advice, Portafina 
couldve discharged  its professional responsibility  to him appropriately. For example, it 
couldve treated him as an insistent client. However,  theres nothing to indicate Mr K 
wouldve acted against the advice hed been given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr K are as a result of the unsuitable advice 
provided by Portafina.  Had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, I dont  believe  he would 
have gone ahead with the transfer  of his OPS, or invested such  a large share  of his pension 
fund in UCIS.
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have  also separately caused  some of Mr Ks 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina.  In the circumstances, though,  I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont  
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which  absolves  Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mr Ks losses.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services designed to bring  about  a single outcome for 
clients  pension-release  advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt authorised to 
provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr K to Portafina. Portafina advised  Mr K to 
transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits  to be 
transferred. I acknowledge that Firm C advised  Mr K to invest a significant  share  of his SIPP 
funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained,  Portafinas understanding  that it could reasonably  limit 
its advice to just the transfer and the SIPP  was wrong; it needed to consider  the proposed 
investments too, even  if Firm C was advising Mr K on the investments. It was only as a result  
of Portafinas  involvement that Mr K transferred the funds held in his OPS to the SIPP. 
Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds 
being transferred  first; if that hadnt happened, Mr K couldnt have invested as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware  that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont  pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction,  and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses.  It has already been confirmed 
with Mr K that he did approach the FSCS to complain about Firm C in 2017, but they did not 
accept his claim and directed him to complain to Portafina. This means that apportionment of 
only part of the loss to Portafina could leave Mr K out of pocket. 
I also think its important to point  out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly responsible  for 
the losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to 
causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible  for the losses Mr K 
suffered in transferring his existing benefits to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to 
my mind, wrong  in law or irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair 
and reasonable position.  So, overall,  I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the 
whole of the loss represents  fair compensation in this case.
What Portafina should  do to put things right 
Ref: DRN177631212A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for Portafina to put Mr K, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the OPS. Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the regulators pension  review guidance  as updated  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9:  Guidance for firms  on how to calculate redress  for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers .
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ks acceptance  of the decision.
Portafina must contact  the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Ks 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ks SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid into Mr Ks pension  
plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
 
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr K within 90 days of the date 
Portafina LLP receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest 
must be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes 
Portafina to pay Mr K.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
A copy of Portafinas calculations should be provided to Mr Ks representative.
My aim is to return Mr K to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of Portafina. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value  cant be determined. That appears to be the case  here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
Ref: DRN177631213calculations should  include anything Portafina  has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied  to the SIPP should  be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr K to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina  asks Mr K to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
If Portafina had given suitable  advice  Mr K wouldnt have the SIPP.  The SIPP  only exists 
because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr K wish to move 
his investment portfolio)  and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments  need to be 
removed from the SIPP.  Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portafina  taking 
over the investments, or this is something that Mr K can discuss  with his SIPP provider 
directly. But I dont  know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties,  I think its fair that Portafina 
pay Mr K an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth  of SIPP  fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees). This should provide  a reasonable  period for the parties  to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1776312