K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that BW Legal  Services Limited  (BWLS) is pursuing him for a debt that 
isnt his.
background
In January 2017 Mr R received a letter from BWLS  that explained they had been asked to 
recover the outstanding debt that he owed to their client   who Ill call P.
But Mr R disputes owing  P any money  and he says that BWLS  has been unable  to provide 
any evidence that he does.
BWLS explained  that the debt was originally incurred when Mr R took a loan out with 
another business, who Ill call M, in May 2012.  The loan was for £700. The loan was 
transferred to P in line with the contract  Mr R had signed. They didnt need to raise  a new 
credit agreement. They provided copies of the original  loan agreement and explained that 
the loan was paid into Mr Rs current account. So they thought they were  entitled to pursue  
Mr R for the debt as it was clear he owed the money.
But Mr R disagreed and he referred his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator  contacted 
the bank the money was paid into and they clarified the account was Mr Rs and that the 
sum had been  credited to his account.  He noted that the sum hadnt been returned and he 
also noted that two other accounts that were used, in relation to the original account with M, 
had been in Mr Rs name.  So he thought it was most likely the debt did belong  to Mr R and 
BWLS were therefore being reasonable when chasing payment.
But Mr R disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I think theres enough evidence here to suggest  that the debt in question  is Mr Rs. I say that 
because:
the account the original loan was paid into was Mr Rs
the original loan agreement was registered  to Mr Rs old address
other bank accounts used on the original loan were in Mr Rs name
Ref: DRN14625522Im required  to decide if BWLS are being  fair in pursuing Mr R for the debt and I think,  given 
the evidence Ive detailed above, they are being.  So I wont be asking them to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1462552