K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wrongly charged him non-sterling  
transaction fees on his credit card account.
background
Mr P opened  a credit card account with RBS in 1997. In December 2018 he complained that 
RBS had been charging him non-sterling transaction fees for all of that time, when on the 
back of his statements  it said that there would be no fee for such transactions.  RBS replied 
to say that the fees had been correctly charged. It said that the reference to no fees only 
applied to Royal Bank credit cards, and Mr P did not have that product,  which  was a new 
product that had been launched earlier  that year. Being unconvinced by that explanation, 
Mr P brought this complaint to our Service. But it was not upheld by our adjudicator.  So Mr P 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  which set out the scope of our Services jurisdiction, I cannot consider a 
complaint about  fees which were charged more than six years  before Mr P first complained 
about them. RBS has not consented to our Service considering older fees,  and Mr P has not 
sought to argue that there were exceptional  circumstances which prevented  him from 
complaining sooner. So I am only considering fees charged since  December 2012.
I have noted that in the course  of dealing with this complaint, RBS and our adjudicator  made 
repeated references  to Williams & Glyn, which was another part of RBS. I think  that this is a 
red herring, and I trust that both parties  will understand  if I say no more  about it here.
I will briefly summarise Mr Ps argument.  On the back of his credit card statement for 
October 2018 there is a summary of charges. The relevant section, titled  Foreign  Usage, 
contains this table:
One or more of the following may 
apply:The Royal Bank Credit 
CardAll other cards
Non-Sterling Transaction Fee 0% 2.75% of transaction
Cash Fee 3% handling  fee 3% handling  fee
Mr P insists  that he had a Royal  Bank  Credit  Card all along, and so the 2.75% fee has never 
applied to him. He says that because his card,  and all of his statements, have  always  had 
RBS printed on them, instead of another brand.
RBS says that the reference to the Royal Bank  Credit Card does not mean any credit  card 
with the RBS logo on it, but a specific one which it introduced from May 2018. RBS has 
provided evidence  (in confidence) to show that the Royal  Bank Credit Card  was a new 
product then. RBS says (and I accept) this product was not issued to existing customers 
automatically, but had to be applied for.
Mr Ps credit  card (when he complained) was issued in April 2018, before the new product 
was available. So I accept  that it was not a Royal Bank Credit Card attracting a 0% fee, but 
Ref: DRN12223612an ordinary RBS credit card which incurred the usual  2.75% fee for foreign  currency 
transactions.
I am reinforced in that view by the following evidence. The following paragraph appears on 
numerous statements  which Mr P received  between 2014 and April 2018  inclusive:
We are making your charges easier  to understand  on your statements. In future, 
when you use your card abroad the Non-Sterling Transaction  Fee which is 2.75% of 
the transaction amount, will be shown  separately on your statement. This fee has 
always been  charged.
That paragraph does  not appear in statements after April 2018,  the month before the Royal  
Bank Credit Card was introduced. And I have not seen  evidence that a 0% non-sterling  
transaction fee was mentioned on statements earlier  than that. (That would explain why Mr P 
did not complain  about  this matter before 2018.)
All of this evidence leads  me to the conclusion that Mr Ps account  was not eligible for the 
0% fee. I recognise that it was not obvious  that his card did not qualify, but that does not 
mean that it would be fair of me to require RBS to refund any of the fees. The fees were  
correctly charged.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before  4 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1222361