K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  treated an incident at her home as a claim on 
her home insurance policy  shes also unhappy about the surveyors  report,  and the service 
she received. 
background
Mrs H told Ageas that, four months earlier, she had seen someone climb up on to her roof 
using a ladder.  She explained she had since  noticed her guttering was bent and she was 
concerned there might  be other damage. 
Ageas appointed a company to report on the damage, which in turn appointed a surveyor to 
complete an inspection. A report was submitted to Ageas which  explained there wasnt  any 
damage to Mrs Hs roof relating to the reported incident. The report noted some wear and 
tear issues  in the valley, and some tile movement  mid-roof   but it said the wear and tear 
issues were the responsibility of the neighbours, and the tile movement was a long term 
issue as evidenced  by the moss growth.  The report also confirmed the claim had been 
declined.
The report  was subsequently  sent to Mrs H and she complained about  its contents. Mrs H 
says the two people who inspected her roof agreed during their visit that her guttering  had 
bowed due to the weight  applied to it via a ladder.  
The appointed company  then sent Mrs H a letter which  explained the surveyor  had reviewed 
the matter further.  The letter explained  although  a section of the guttering had twisted, there 
werent any marks or scuffs (with the inference marks or scuffs would be present if a ladder 
had caused the issue).  The letter also explained  that the gutter clip was set too far from the 
running outlet and not in-line with the manufacturers recommendation  a clip should have 
been fitted between the union bracket and the running outlet.
So in response to Mrs Hs complaint, Ageas  said there wasnt  any damage to her guttering. 
She then complained that a response  had been  given  before she had provided Ageas with 
her own photos. She also explained the surveyor had promised her a letter  confirming her 
guttering had been damaged, which she still hadnt  received  and she was concerned  about  
future claims  should water leak from it. Mrs H also reiterated her guttering  wasnt damaged 
before the incident.
Ageas then sent a further response to the complaint explaining that the twist in the guttering 
isnt consistent  with the reported incident,  and is more  consistent with a lack of clips.  Ageas 
concluded the damage wasnt  caused  by an insured event  so it couldnt consider the matter 
further. Ageas also explained the surveyors calls werent recorded,  but it apologised about 
any distress caused by his attitude, and it said it would provide feedback.
Mrs H then referred her complaint to this service.  She explained she was unhappy with the 
conduct of Ageas and its agents  she said time had been  wasted,  promises  not kept,  and 
she had been  ignored. Mrs H said Ageas had failed to pursue the correct report and send 
another surveyor; she was passed between businesses; and made to send photos and 
letters which  were not reviewed.
Ref: DRN18832502The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She concluded that Ageas had fairly  declined the claim based on the surveyors 
observations. 
Mrs H disagreed with our investigators outcome, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. Mrs H made  the following points when  responding to our investigator:
-She didnt at any time make a claim  but reported the incident  to Ageas just in case any 
damage was caused by the trespasser.
-Both the surveyor and his colleague agreed during their visit that the guttering had 
bowed due to the incident, but they failed to report  this.
-The surveyor didnt mention anything about  the clips  and these are all clearly  visible  on 
the photos.
-Ageas  hasnt acted  fairly since 2018  including threats made over the telephone in 
February 2019.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Shortly after Ageas  sent its second response  to this complaint, Mrs H suffered a leak in her 
bathroom and made  a water damage claim to Ageas. Mrs H also referred a complaint about  
that claim to this service,  which has already been considered by another  ombudsman here. 
The reason  I mention  her other claim and complaint is to be clear that Im only considering 
matters relating to the guttering incident.  So I wont be commenting on anything that 
happened after Ageas  sent its second response in August 2018.
Mrs H has explained to both our service and Ageas  that she was not trying to claim for her 
guttering, but rather she wanted to make  Ageas aware of the incident and damage in case  
further issues arose later down the line. Mrs H has also explained that she wanted a report 
from Ageas  confirming the damage so this could be passed on to the police, who the 
incident had been reported  to.
I accept it wasnt Mrs Hs intention to submit  a claim, but effectively thats what she did when  
she reported the damage to Ageas. In my view,  Ageas couldnt have reasonably treated the 
matter any differently given Mrs H wanted  Ageas  to inspect her guttering  and roof.
I understand Mrs H is unhappy  with the service she received   and I can understand some 
of her frustration. Two different parties  were involved in reporting  to Ageas, and in my view 
there was clearly some miscommunication because the report  didnt address the guttering, 
but Ageas instruction to its appointed  company explained the guttering was a concern for 
Mrs H.
Ref: DRN18832503However, on balance,  Im not persuaded Mrs H was told by the surveyor  that the damage to 
the guttering was consistent with the reported incident given he reported something entirely 
different to Ageas following his further  review. I also dont consider it likely  that the surveyor  
promised to write to Mrs H confirming the damage, when his role was to report  to Ageas.
Mrs H says the damage to her guttering wasnt present before the incident.  But the surveyor  
is of the view that the twist to the guttering is due to the placement of the brackets.  When 
theres a dispute  such as this, we consider the submissions of both parties to determine 
what, on balance,  we are more persuaded by. We tend to place more  weight  on those 
considered to be industry experts. Here,  the surveyor has a given a relatively  detailed  
explanation of how hes reached his opinion, and overall Im more persuaded by his 
explanation  as the expert  than anything else we have been shown or told.
So in conclusion, Im persuaded that it was reasonable for Ageas to deal with the matter as a 
claim  and overall, Im also persuaded  it declined the claim fairly  given  the surveyor didnt 
identify any damage  caused by an event  covered by the policy.  As such,  I consider it 
reasonable for Ageas to not provide any further  assistance.
I do appreciate Mrs H is unhappy with how she was treated,  but I havent seen or been  told 
anything that persuades  me Ageas or its agents  acted unfairly towards her. So having 
carefully considered  all the arguments  made, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H. But for the reasons given above, I dont uphold  her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1883250