K821x#15Complaint
Mrs S, represented by Mr S, complains that the charge imposed by Insurance  Advisory  
Services (Larbert) Ltd (IAS) when  she cancelled her travel insurance policy,  was unfair.
Background
Mrs S contacted IAS by telephone as she required travel  insurance. This was a policy  for 
multiple destinations. 
IAS quoted for her specific needs  and Mrs S agreed to go ahead with the cover at a total 
cost of £2610.48.  IAS agreed to send  the policy documents  and terms of business by post.
Approximately one hour later Mrs Ss husband called  IAS to say she no longer required the 
cover and wished  to cancel. This was confirmed by Mrs S a short while  later who said she 
had found an alternative policy.
IAS contacted the insurer who cancelled  the policy with no penalty.  IAS informed Mrs S that 
she would  be refunded the cost of the policy minus £542.81 to cover its lost commission  plus 
£25 cancellation  fee as this is allowed in their terms of business  agreement.
When Mrs S complained IAS lowered  the commission  charge  to £400 plus the £25 
cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill  and refunded the balance to Mrs S. Mrs S did not 
accept this outcome  and Mr S brought the complaint  to this service on her behalf.
The investigators view was that it was unfair to charge her the lost commission  as she had 
not been told about this possible charge  at the point of sale, and he felt it was likely that 
Mrs S would not have  taken out the policy had she been aware of it.
His view was that IAS should refund the £400 in commission charges. IAS did not agree and 
said this charge was not to offset lost commission but reflected the professional  service  
provided in arranging the cover and it was included in its terms of business  agreement.  The 
matter was referred to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at the case, I agree with the investigators view,  and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain  why.
It is not disputed  by IAS that Mrs S had the right to cancel  the policy, as although she hadnt  
received the documents,  she was, in essence, within  the 14-day cooling off period. What is 
disputed however, is what IAS could charge  Mrs S as a result of the cancellation? 
The relevant  section of the Insurance Conduct  of Business sourcebook  (ICOBS) by the FCA 
says, in summary, that a broker can charge an amount to cover its costs,  upon cancellation, 
for the service actually  provided. I have  asked IAS to explain how the amount it charged 
reflected the work put in. 
Ref: DRN13759522It replied that it reserved the right to charge a fee to compensate them for the time,  
expenses, compliance,  public  indemnity and its regulatory commitments. And that the fee 
charged was proportionate to the work personally  undertaken  in this case.
I accept that work was undertaken on behalf of Mrs S, and that this wasnt a standard 
request for cover. Nevertheless, Im not persuaded that the work undertaken in such a short 
period of time justifies the amount charged. It seems  to me that the amount charged is 
disproportionate to the time taken to arrange the policy  and looks  like a penalty.
In addition to the above,  ICOBS also provides direction on what and when consumers must 
be told in relation to their rights to cancel a policy. Specifically, the consumer must  be given 
information on the amount they may be required to pay if they do indeed  cancel.  This 
information must be provided before  agreeing the policy and also in writing. 
Mrs S has said she was not told this when  she purchased the policy.  IAS have been unable  
to provide any evidence which showed Mrs S was informed, at the point of sale,  how much 
she would  have to pay if she cancelled the policy, and as the policy was cancelled  so 
quickly, they hadnt provided this in writing either. 
On balance I dont  think Mrs S was told and wouldnt  have been aware of the possible 
charges imposed upon cancellation. So, the key question to be asked is, would it have made 
a difference to her decision to proceed had she been aware?
Mrs S was considering other insurance  providers in looking for the cover she required. This, 
on balance, leads me to the opinion that had IAS told her, at the point of sale, the potential  
charges that would have been due should she cancel the policy, it is more likely than not that 
she wouldnt  have agreed to the cover  at that point.
I must also consider the £25 fee IAS charged  for cancellation. I think this is reasonable  
some administration would have been necessary in order to cancel the policy  with the 
insurer. Although Mrs S may not have  been aware  of this, its a normal charge and as such  I 
do not think IAS are unreasonable in charging  this.
I understand IAS will be disappointed with my decision, and I recognise that work was done 
on Mrs S behalf. However,  Im not persuaded either that Mrs S was made aware of the 
charge she would be liable for when taking out the policy or that its justified in all the 
circumstances. Accordingly, I require IAS to pay Mrs S £400 that they withheld from the 
refund.
I have also thought about whether Mrs S was caused any distress  or inconvenience. Im 
sure that being informed  that a large proportion of money due to be refunded to you is being 
retained to cover lost commission would  cause anger, and it is clear in this case that it did. 
However, on balance,  given the information  I have seen, and the fact that she was able to 
obtain insurance cover elsewhere, I do not think the distress and inconvenience Mrs S was 
caused was significant. I will not be making  a financial award to reflect this. 
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN13759523I require Insurance  Advisory Services (Larbert) Ltd to pay Mrs S £400.  This reflects the sum 
withheld from her cancellation refund.  8% simple interest will need  to be added from the 
date of the insurance cancellation to the date of settlement*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Insurance Advisory Services (Larbert) Ltd to take off tax 
from this interest. Insurance Advisory Services (Larbert) Ltd must give Mrs S a certificate  
showing how much  tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN1375952