K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with Santander  Cards UK Limiteds (Santander) response following  her 
complaint about  the commission it got on her payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
that was attached to a store card. 
The policy was sold by a different business. The sale was looked  at separately by our 
service under a different  reference. We thought the policy wasnt  mis-sold.
To be clear, within this decision I have only looked  at the commission  complaint that Mrs B 
has raised.
 
Mrs B has been represented  throughout her complaint.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 20 August 2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out, in full, the background  to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or information 
that they wished for me to consider.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
I cant consider a complaint about  events  that happened before 6 April 2007.
But I can, and have considered, a complaint about  events that happened after 6 April 2007.  
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs B didnt pay any PPI premiums (and therefore  commission) past 6 April 2007, so an 
unfair relationship  wasnt caused. 
As an unfair relationship wasnt caused, there is nothing for Santander to consider giving 
back  it doesnt  need to remedy  any unfairness.
Ref: DRN15125792my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and within my provisional decision I dont uphold  Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
Santander Cards UK Limited doesnt  need  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15125793Copy of Provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B is unhappy  with Santander Cards UK Limiteds (Santander) response following  her complaint 
about the commission it got on her payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that was attached to a 
store card. 
The policy was sold by a different business.  The sale was looked at separately  by our service under  a 
different reference. We thought the policy  wasnt mis-sold.
To be clear,  within this decision I will only look at the commission complaint that Mrs B has raised.
 
Mrs B has been represented  throughout her complaint.
background
In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), issued some 
new rules  about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
Broadly summarised, the FCAs rules and guidance set out how firms, that are lenders,  should assess 
a complaint to establish whether failure to disclose  commission gave rise to an unfair  relationship 
under section 140A  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And also how businesses  should  
determine the appropriate compensation (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI policy  
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back 
the amount of commission  and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Santander, in its role as a lender, wrote out to Mrs B in January 2018 explaining that it was waiting for 
further information from the FCA about the rules  and guidance and what it meant in Mrs Bs case. 
In March 2018, Mrs Bs representatives  chased Santander  for a response.   
As Mrs Bs representatives didnt  hear from Santander again, they referred Mrs Bs complaint to our service.
In July 2018,  the FCA published a consultation paper (CP18/18) about  how firms should handle 
complaints about regular premium PPI policies  in light of recurring non-disclosure (RND) of the 
existence of, or level of, commission and/or profit share. 
In November 2018, the FCA published a further consultation paper (CP18/33) responding to the 
response and feedback it had received on its proposed guidance and provided its final guidance on 
RND. 
While the complaint was with our service,  Santander got in touch.  It explained that the following  the 
FCAs final guidance  it had looked at Mrs Bs account to determine whether she was owed  any 
compensation for the level of commission and profit share it received. It said that as Mrs B hadnt paid 
any premiums  after 6 April 2007 it didnt have to pay her any compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. They  explained that we can only look at whether  
Santander treated Mrs B unfairly  because  of commission it received from 6 April 2007 and as Mrs B 
hadnt paid any PPI premiums after 6 April 2007, they didnt think Santander had to refund any of the 
commission Mrs B paid.
As Mrs B disagreed,  the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN15125794my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
why 6 April 2007 is an important date?
We operate under  rules   known  as DISP and published by the FCA  which set out the extent of our 
powers. These include  which activities were able to look at complaints  about.
Mrs Bs complaint  is that Santanders failure to disclose  the high level of commission it received in 
relation to the PPI, caused an unfair relationship under  the CCA  it is a credit-related complaint 
(rather than being a complaint about the sale of insurance or any other regulated activity).
The rules that applied when  Mrs Bs complaint was referred to the Financial  Ombudsman Service say 
I can consider a relevant  new credit- related complaint  provided  that: 
(a)the complaint  could  have  been dealt with under the Consumer Credit Jurisdiction
(b)the complainant  is eligible and wishes to have the complaint dealt with under  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (DISP 2.2.2-A)
Theres no dispute that Mrs B is an eligible complainant and its clear she does want us to deal with 
her complaint. 
So I need to consider  if her complaint could have been dealt with under  the Consumer Credit Jurisdiction.
The Consumer Credit Jurisdiction resulted from an amendment  to the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (FSMA) as a result of CCA  2006. Section 226A (now repealed)  of FSMA  set out our 
Consumer Credit  Jurisdiction. The DISP rules were updated on 6 April 2007 and from this date we 
were able to consider complaints about an act or omission by a business  carrying on consumer credit  
activities  such as Santander providing  credit  via store cards. But this wasnt retrospective  we 
could only consider  acts or omissions that occurred on or after 6 April 2007.
This means  we wouldnt have been able to consider a complaint about the failure  to disclose commission  
in relation PPI sold with a store card before 6 April 2007 under our Consumer Credit  Jurisdiction. And 
because of this, were not able to do so under our current Compulsory Jurisdiction either.
Put simply, this means I dont have  the power, in this case, to look at what  happened before 6 April 
2007. I can only look at what happened from 6 April 2007  onwards.  
what does this mean for Mrs B?
This means  that I can only look at whether  Santander treated Mrs B unfairly in relation to the 
commission and profit share it received after 6 April 2007  and not before.
Santander has said that Mrs B wasnt charged any premiums after this date. As no premiums were  
charged, no commission  was received. So as Mrs B didnt pay anything, there is nothing  for it to 
consider giving back.  
Santander has provided information to show Mrs Bs store card account opened in 1995. PPI was 
added and commenced on this date also. The PPI was cancelled on 9 December 1999. Mrs B wasnt 
charged for PPI after this date, although I can see her store card account  did carry  on. 
At the time the account opened and PPI was sold, the provision of restricted credit,  such  as store  
cards, wasnt regulated. The omission of Santander not disclosing commission to Mrs B at the point 
of sale in 1995 or at any point between this time and 6 April 2007, wouldnt be something I could 
consider because this complaint couldnt have been dealt with under  the Consumer Credit  
Jurisdiction, as I have said above. 
Ref: DRN15125795Having considered  the evidence  provided  by Santander,  Im satisfied Mrs B didnt pay any PPI 
premiums after 6 April 2007. 
Mrs Bs representatives  have made some comments on the FCAs rules  and guidance and also on 
the consultation  papers  around the guidance. They have explained what they think  it means in 
Mrs Bs case.  I have carefully  considered  what they have said.
First, I would like to explain the changes which  were  made  to the CCA in 2006 explained that the 
unfair relationship  provisions  would only apply to credit agreements  taken out on or after 6 April 2007, 
or agreements taken  out before then, which  were  still running on 6 April 2008. 
Mrs Bs store  card account  was opened in 1995   and as Santander cant  confirm  the exact date it 
closed, it has treated  Mrs Bs account as though  it was still running beyond 6 April 2008. 
So, based on this assumption, the unfair relationship provisions of the CCA would apply  to Mrs Bs 
credit agreement.
So a court might  be able to look at whether  there was an unfair relationship  caused by the non-
disclosure of commission  from when Mrs Bs account opened. But the courts powers  are different  to 
those of the Financial Ombudsman Service  I have to apply the rules set out in DISP. And for the 
reasons Ive already  explained, I can only consider complaints such as Mrs Bs from 6 April 2007.
Mrs Bs representatives  say because the seller of the policy was covered  by our jurisdiction when the PPI 
was sold, then even though the lender wasnt, the non-disclosure of commission should  be considered 
from the point of sale. Mrs Bs representatives feel that it brings the lender into jurisdiction by default. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs Bs representatives have said. The business that took 
responsibility for the sale of the PPI is a different business  to Santander who was the lender.  As 
explained earlier, the FCAs rules and guidance  set out how firms,  that are lenders, should  assess  a 
complaint to establish whether failure to disclose  commission gave rise to an unfair relationship under  
section 140A of the CCA. The FCAs rules are clear  on this. Also,  within FCAs consultation  paper  
(CP18/33) the FCA said that it had not and would not be changing the jurisdiction rules as set out 
within DISP.  So, the rules at DISP App 3, the FCAs  policy  statements and consultation papers in 
relation to the failure to disclose commission  didnt  change our jurisdiction in any way. 
The seller of the policy  therefore  doesnt  need to consider  the commission  it is the lender that is 
required to do so. Section  140A of the CCA relates to the relationship between the creditor and debtor 
and whether the relationship  is unfair to the debtor. Santander was the creditor and Mrs B was the 
debtor. That is why the complaint about commission can only be considered against Santander and 
not the seller of the policy  and Ive explained why I cant consider a complaint about  Santander for 
events before 6 April 2007.
summary
Santander, as the lender , has looked at Mrs Bs store card account in relation to the commission it 
received. And it has done so in accordance  with the FCAs  rules and guidance.  
As our jurisdiction wasnt extended to consider complaints about  consumer credit  until 6 April 2007, I 
simply dont have the power, in this case, to look at what happened before 6 April 2007. I can only 
look at what happened after 6 April 2007 onwards. 
As Mrs B didnt pay any PPI premiums (and therefore commission) past 6 April 2007, an unfair  
relationship wasnt caused, and there is nothing for Santander  to consider giving back.
Ref: DRN15125796my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that I cant consider  a complaint about  events 
that happened before 6 April 2007.
But I can, and have considered, a complaint  about events that happened after 6 April 2007.  
Having done so, I dont  uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs B didnt pay any PPI premiums (and therefore commission) past 6 April 2007,  so an unfair 
relationship wasnt caused. 
As an unfair relationship wasnt caused, there is nothing for Santander Cards UK Limited  to consider 
giving back  it doesnt  need to remedy any unfairness.
I invite both parties to respond by the date set out at the start of my provisional  decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1512579