K820x#14complaint
Mrs B1, who is attorney  for Mr B2, complains that British Gas Services Limited acted unfairly  
and unreasonably by recording the tenant  of the property covered by a home emergency 
policy as the policyholder.  She wants all premiums paid since  2011  refunded  as she felt 
British Gas actions  stopped her discussing the premiums or going to another  insurer.
background
Mrs B1 (as attorney for Mr B2) had a home emergency policy  with British Gas which covered 
a property owned by Mr B2, which was rented out. Mrs B1 was unhappy as she gave 
permission for the tenant to be able to deal with British Gas, not to become the policyholder 
in 2011. After this, Mrs B1 said that British  Gas refused to deal with her, despite her and the 
tenant trying  to explain the situation, while paying the premiums. British Gas then wrote  to 
the tenant in 2018  saying that it couldnt  cover the central heating  system anymore as it no 
longer met gas safety or building regulations, and it would  refund the remaining premium.  
Mrs B1 said that this wasnt  true and on the same day as the letter was sent to the tenant, a 
new policy was taken  out covering the property in her own name.
Mrs B1 complained to British Gas. It said that it had incorrectly recorded the tenant as the 
policyholder in 2011, which meant much of the documentation which shouldve been sent to 
Mrs B1 went  to the tenant instead.  British  Gas thought that this had probably been done to 
make it easier to arrange appointments,  but accepted it shouldve realised this was incorrect  
as Mr B2s relatives and trust were paying  the premiums. British Gas explained  that the 
original policy had been ended when Mrs B1 complained in 2018, and it was likely that the 
member of staff selected the wrong reason for the closure, triggering  the automated letter.  It 
confirmed that the property  was now covered with a policy in Mrs B1s name. 
British Gas paid £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its errors, as well 
as by the delay in resolving the issue, the efforts made by Mrs B1 to put matters  right,  the 
need to take out a new policy and documents not reaching Mrs B1. British Gas refused to 
refund premiums since 2011 as the property  had been covered and work  had been  carried 
out on several occasions.
Mrs B1 complained to us. The adjudicators view was that it was likely Mrs B1 had contacted  
British Gas between  2011 and 2018  to try to sort matters out, but it hadnt been  recorded as 
she wasnt the policyholder. But she also noted that British Gas had attended  the property 
many times between 2011 and 2018  and carried  out work,  and Mrs B1 hadnt cancelled the 
direct debit (or asked the tenant to end the policy), but chose to continue  to pay. The 
adjudicators view was that as the property had been covered, the premiums didnt need to 
be refunded and she thought the £200 compensation paid was fair and reasonable in 
relation to the trouble  and upset caused  by British Gas failings.
Mrs B1 disagreed. She said that British Gas told her not to cancel the direct debit as it might 
affect the tenants credit rating. Mrs B1 also said that she believed  that if shed been  the 
policyholder, she couldve got a lower  premium. The adjudicator  didnt change her view and 
said that the tenant couldve  cancelled  the policy. Mrs B1 provided evidence  that the tenant  
had said shed spoken to British Gas,  but this wasnt evidence  that the tenant had done  so.
Ref: DRN12370162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that British Gas made a mistake  and shouldnt have recorded  the tenant  
as the policyholder. But nonetheless Mr B2 benefitted from the years of work carried  out on 
the property by British Gas, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to refund the premiums  paid.  
And Mrs B1 and the tenant knew  about  the situation,  but continued to allow the policy  to 
continue  the evidence from Mrs B1 only shows that the tenant told her that shed contacted 
British Gas, not that shed done  so. I think its likely  that Mrs B1 did contact British Gas 
several times about the issue, but the calls werent  recorded as she wasnt the policy holder; 
Mrs B1 is clearly unhappy about  the situation  and I think its unlikely she did nothing for 
years.
Theres no evidence available to me that shows due to the tenant being the policyholder, 
Mr B2 was charged higher premiums  for the insurance policy.  This leaves the issue  of 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by British Gas error regarding  the 
policyholder and the efforts of Mrs B1 to put things right. Money never  truly compensates for 
trouble and upset.  In any event, taking into account all the circumstances of this case,  the 
fact that work was carried out under the policy,  and the number of calls made to British  Gas 
trying to deal with the issue, I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B1 to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1237016