K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains he was mis-sold a personal contract hire finance agreement  by Lookers 
Motor Group  Limited. He wants  to end the agreement.
background
Mr H tells us he first applied to have the agreement in the name  of his business but was told 
he had to proceed with a personal application. He says he wasnt told of withdrawal rights  
and that the paperwork was falsified  to put pressure  on him to sign.  Mr H states that when 
he lost his employment contract, the day after entering the agreement, he wasnt  allowed to 
cancel the agreement. He says this has led to financial difficulty and he doesnt feel hes 
been treated fairly. 
Lookers told us it did not consider it had done  anything wrong and refuted  any suggestion it 
had falsified paperwork or not followed correct  procedures.  It said it had tried to assist Mr H 
in negotiations with A, the finance provider, and this had led to a preferential  settlement offer 
being made to Mr H. But Mr H had declined to proceed on this basis.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said the finance 
had been provided by A, not Lookers. So Lookers didnt have the power to cancel the 
agreement. She found Mr H had signed  the agreement  which  under the Key Information  
heading had stated this agreement is not cancellable. And she saw that Mr H - when 
notifying Lookers  of his loss of employment - had said he still wanted the vehicle.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome. He said there had been ample time for the agreement 
to be cancelled. And he didnt think the correct paperwork had been processed by the time 
hed notified his change of circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr H has experienced  the worry and upset which has surrounded the 
circumstances of this complaint. And it was both unfortunate  and unpredictable  that he 
should lose his employment so soon  entering the agreement.
Although I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account. And because this 
agreement is a hire agreement (as opposed  to hire purchase) there are differences in the 
relevant law.
In some situations - a hire purchase  agreement is one example - the provider of finance is 
potentially liable for any misrepresentation and/ or breach of contract  by the credit  broker  
during antecedent negotiations. This would mean that all aspects of a complaint such as Mr 
Hs could be dealt with at the same  time.  But the legislation does not apply in the same way 
in the case of hire only agreements.
This means  that the selling  of this finance  agreement - and what  happened later when  Mr H 
tried to cancel it - have  to be dealt with as separate  issues. And my decision only deals with 
the complaint  against Lookers in respect of its actions as broker  of the agreement. Its 
potentially open  to Mr H to bring  a separate complaint against the provider of finance if he 
feels it has not treated  him fairly in respect  of the financial  difficulties hes described.
Ref: DRN10120392Were an evidence  based  service  - which means we dont just rely on what the parties tell us 
but we also look to any documentary or other  evidence to reach a decision. And where 
evidence is unclear - or contradictory - as some of it is here,  Im required to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities.
I can see that Mr H first tried to take out the agreement in the name  of his business - but 
apparently that application was declined and so it was resubmitted in Mr Hs name. I mention 
- simply for completeness - that as Mr Hs business  appears to be a limited company this 
service would not have  been able to look into any complaint if this hire agreement had been 
taken out in the company  name.
Although Ive seen  a copy of the agreement  - in which the business name is crossed  out and 
Mr Hs name  is inserted by hand - I do not think theres anything  sinister about this. Its clear 
from other documentation - which is in Mr Hs name and apparently signed by him - that he 
was - or ought  to have been - aware  the agreement was being processed  in his name. This 
includes an agreement document which is dated 28 June  2017 and appears to bear Mr Hs 
signature. And on 29 June Mr H emailed Lookers to say I still want the car, still want to go 
ahead.
Our investigator has already explained that Lookers was not the provider of finance and so it 
was not open to them to cancel the agreement. And in any event the agreement  is labelled   
this agreement is not cancellable.
Whilst any delay which followed in terms of the vehicle registration  and collection might have 
given the opportunity for the agreement to be amended or terminated, that was not 
something that Lookers could bring  about.
Mr H has also asked me to explain what would have happened  if, on 10 July 2017, hed not 
paid the balance of his deposit and signed to get the car registered. Im not able to 
definitively answer that question - as it would not be for me to make the decision if that event 
had occurred. But I cant see its likely to have  made  any difference  to his obligations (or the 
ability of the finance provider to enforce the agreement) as by then hed signed the non-
cancellable agreement  document.
In summary,  I do not find that Lookers misrepresented the agreement  or did anything wrong 
in relation to it being processed. As its only the agreement broker it has no power to either 
enforce the agreement  or cancel or amend it once its in force.
Whilst Im sorry my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H Im not going to uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN10120393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1012039