K820x#14complaint
Miss K says MBNA Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Ks credit card account during a phone call shortly after she opened the credit card 
account.
If Miss K had made a successful claim on the PPI, it would have helped  with her credit  card 
repayments until she returned to work or her credit card balance  when she became sick was 
repaid - whichever happened sooner. And it would  have  paid out for up to 12 months per 
successful claim  for unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ks case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain  why.
 Miss K says she wasnt  aware she had the PPI, and cant  see any reason why shed 
have agreed to it. MBNA  hasnt  been able to provide a recording of the phone call. But 
I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given  how long ago it took place. But its 
provided a copy of the call script that was in use at the time.
 The script instructed  the salesperson to get the customers  consent to the policy, and 
to make it clear that it was optional. And Ive not seen anything  to make me think  that 
its likely  that the salesperson didnt follow the script.  Ive also borne  in mind that 
Miss K had already opened the credit card account  without PPI. So I think  shed have  
realised she didnt  have to have it. 
 Whats more, the premiums for the PPI would have shown on Miss Ks credit  card 
statements. If she didnt realise shed taken out PPI and didnt want it, Id have 
expected her to contact MBNA  about  this. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that she did so. 
 Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied, on balance, that MBNA made Miss K 
aware that the PPI was optional and that it was added  to her account  because she 
chose to take it. But I can understand why she may no longer remember  this.
Ref: DRN10434512 Miss Ks told us she cant remember whether MBNA recommended  the PPI to her, or 
advised her to take it. MBNA  says it didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss K. Based on the 
sales script its provided  and our knowledge  of how it sold PPI at the time, I think  thats 
likely to be right. This means MBNA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for 
Miss K. But it did have a responsibility to give her clear enough information to enable 
her to decide  whether she wanted  to take the cover,  knowing what  alternative means 
shed have had of making her monthly  credit  card repayments if shed been off sick, or 
if shed lost her job.
 Its possible the information MBNA gave Miss K about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Ive explained that Im satisfied  that Miss K chose to take out 
the policy. So she appears to have wanted this type of cover,  even if shes 
understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on what  Miss Ks told 
us about her circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover (for example provisions about unusual employment 
arrangements or existing  medical  conditions).  And the policy was apparently 
affordable. 
 So I think the policy could have been  useful for Miss K, especially as shes  told us that 
aside from minimal sick pay, she didnt  have any other  means she could  have used to 
make her monthly credit  card repayments  if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job. 
And I think its unlikely that Miss K would  have made  a different decision if better  
information had been provided.  On balance, I think shed still have taken out the policy. 
And as she was paying for the policy monthly,  she could have cancelled it at any time if 
her circumstances changed.
 Im sorry to disappoint Miss K, but for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think the PPI was 
mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1043451