K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the safeguarding of his assets by Walker Crips Investment 
Management Limited, formerly  Walker Crips Stockbrokers Ltd (WCS), and about WCS 
accountability for them. He says WCS  did not uphold these obligations.  Both parties are 
legally represented.
background
WCS says the arrangements relevant to Mr Bs complaint are:
His investments were advised  by a third party independent financial adviser (IFA).
The IFA and WCS had a master  agreement between them, in November 2007, for 
the IFAs use of WCS  deposit  service.
In December 2007 the IFA entered into a separate agreement with WCS, for the 
IFAs introduction of underlying clients to WCS  the indirect customer service.  
From  2008 to 2011 the IFA opened and managed a WCS execution only nominee 
account for Mr B, under  WCS indirect customer service.
According to Mr B, the key issues in his complaint are:
Unauthorised investments made  by the IFA through  his WCS  account.  Mr B says the 
investments were:  the A fund, invested  around  July 2008; the K fund, invested 
around August/September  2010; and the T fund, invested  between April and June 
2011. His solicitor says a total of £51,000 was used  for these investments.
Unauthorised advisers  fees withdrawn by the IFA from his WCS account. Mr B says 
this took place between July 2008 and April 2011. His solicitor  says about £46,000 
was withdrawn in this respect.  There is also a complaint about erroneous  fees that 
appears to be a part of this issue.
Delayed and insufficient disclosure about  his WCS  account between 2012 and 2014.  
Mr B says he was alerted to the IFAs conduct  in early 2012, after which he made 
enquiries with WCS.  His solicitor says WCS undertook to investigate the matter and 
then said nothing  further. Having heard nothing from WCS his pursuit was resumed 
in 2014, after which he received  information   but there  is some  doubt over the 
completeness of it.
I issued a very detailed  provisional decision on 29 November 2018, covering our jurisdiction 
to consider the complaint  and the merits of the complaint. A copy  is attached  below, so I do 
not propose to repeat  all of its contents. 
WCS solicitors expressed a concern that the thrust of the complaint had changed since its 
inception. I provisionally  concluded that:
the underlying  complaint issues remain the same as I have summarised  above  and as 
this service has treated  it to date. I am not persuaded  that the thrust  of the complaint  has 
changed. The complaint was presented, at the outset, and remains on the basis  of an 
alleged breach of a duty of care and an alleged breach of safeguarding responsibilities 
(which relates to custodian responsibilities).
In terms of our jurisdiction, I provisionally concluded that:
Ref: DRN12428602The complaint  features the regulated activity  of safeguarding and administering 
investments.
Mr B is an eligible complainant because he  was a consumer and his complaint 
arises from a relationship  with WCS that was covered by the regulators rules. The 
reasons for this provisional conclusion were  given  in the provisional decision.
The complaint  was submitted outside  the regulators six years time limit but within its 
three years time limit because  Mr B became aware that he had cause for concern 
about the IFA and events  in his account between January and March  2012,  and I 
have not seen evidence to suggest  he ought  reasonably to have become aware any 
sooner than that. That led to knowledge of the issues  in his present complaint. It is 
more likely (than not) that he knew something was wrong at the time so he either had 
or ought reasonably to have had cause for complaint from that period. As such, his 
complaint to WCS in January  2015 was within the regulators three  years  time limit. 
The reasons for this provisional conclusion were  also given in the provisional 
decision.
In terms of the merits of the complaint I provisionally concluded, in summary, as follows:
by December 2010, at the latest, WCS ought reasonably to have notified Mr B about the 
difficulties and its concerns about the investment, the [K] fund and the IFA.
If WCS had notified Mr B of its concerns in December 2010  it follows  that his awareness of 
what was happening at the time would have led him to take control of his assets.  It also 
follows that the T fund investments between April and June 2011 would more  likely (than  
not) not have  been made. I have not seen enough  evidence to persuade me that WCS could  
and should have been obliged to alert Mr B at an earlier point. The same applies to the A 
fund investment in 2008  I have not seen enough evidence  to show  that the rules 
addressed above,  or comparable rules, engaged WCS liability in terms of notifying Mr B in 
2008.
The TOB [terms  of business] did not oblige  WCS  to monitor the fee withdrawals from Mr Bs 
account. However, it follows that if WCS had told him about its concerns about the K fund 
and the IFA in December 2010 he would have been  on notice from then. He would have 
learnt about the unauthorised fees and he would have prevented  any further fee 
withdrawals. As such, I consider that WCS should  be responsible for all fee withdrawals by 
the IFA, including any erroneous fees, from December 2010 onwards.
Mr B ought not to have  been subjected to the delays,  between 2012 and 2014, in WCS 
meeting his requests for disclosure about his account and assets. That disclosure  would 
have been an urgent matter for him at the time, given  the realisation  that something  had 
gone wrong with his assets. The delay is more likely (than not) to have compounded the 
distress and anxiety he was probably facing at the time.
a delay  in obtaining full disclosure from WCS, which continued for around two years  into 
2014, would  have taken its toll on Mr B. For the trouble  and upset caused to him in this 
respect he should be paid £500.
 there is no merit in the suggestion that [Mr Bs] complaint to this service  duplicates his 
complaint to the FSCS.  However, should  any part of an investment related to the T fund 
become crystallisable (as described by the FSCS), Mr B should  not seek  compensation from 
the FSCS .
Ref: DRN12428603 the regulators rules say that cost awards from this service  are the exception  not the 
rule. I acknowledge that Mr B has been  competently represented by his solicitor. However, I 
do not consider  that there was an absolute requirement for legal representations  on behalf of 
Mr Bs complaint  or a requirement to an extent that warrants a cost award  against  WCS. 
This service has addressed comparable complaints in which  there were no legal 
representations on behalf of the complainant.
Both parties  were invited  to comment on the provisional decision. Mr Bs solicitors said four 
matters should  be considered further.  In summary, they said:
By August and September  2010 WCS  was already experiencing concerns about the 
K fund and about the IFA, so consideration should be given to whether (or not) WCS 
ought reasonably  to have acted upon  the IFAs instructions in relation  to investment 
in the K fund at the time.
The provisional decision did not address the complaint about the A fund.
Based  on the provisional findings, the ombudsman should consider any other fees or 
charges that Mr B should be compensated for. For ease  of reference, the erroneous 
fees which are mentioned in the provisional  decision amount to £3,772.50.
Mr Bs complaint is an exceptional case which has involved complex issues  and, like 
Mr B, WCS also instructed solicitors for assistance and representation. As such, Mr 
Bs legal  costs ought to be acknowledged.
WCS solicitors say their client  does not accept that it is liable for the complaint,  but in order 
to see an end to the matter it is prepared to compensate Mr B in accordance with the 
redress outlined in the provisional  decision.  In response to the four matters raised on behalf  
of Mr B they say the point made about the K fund is a repeat of allegations that stood before 
the provisional decision; the provisional decision  does address the complaint about the A 
fund; the point about compensation  for other fees or charges has been made without a 
basis; and they disagree with the assertion that the complaint is exceptional (in terms of the 
claim for legal costs).
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to alter the findings  and conclusions in the provisional decision.  I incorporate 
those findings  and conclusions into this decision.  The basis upon which  the complaint is 
upheld remains the same as stated in the provisional decision.
I respond to Mr Bs solicitors  points as follows:
The provisional decision gave  reasonably  thorough consideration to when, on 
balance, WCS ought reasonably to have been  concerned about the K fund and the 
IFA  in the context  of Mr Bs complaint. It referred  to evidence suggesting that such 
concern ought  reasonably to have  arisen by December 2010. I said I did not have 
enough evidence  that it arose before the K fund investment, in Mr Bs case,  in 
August/September 2010. I invited  any evidence that might  assist in this respect.  I do 
not consider that Mr Bs solicitors have presented such  evidence. They appear to 
have recited an argument  that the provisional decision already addressed. I am not 
persuaded that any progress has been made in terms of evidence  showing that WCS  
ought reasonably  to have been  concerned about the K fund and the IFA at a 
Ref: DRN12428604particular time before  December 2010.  I retain the conclusion that WCS ought 
reasonably to have  been  concerned in these respects by December 2010.
As WCS solicitors  said, the provisional decision does address the complaint about 
the A fund.  I repeat the quote mentioned above   If WCS had notified Mr B of its 
concerns in December  2010  it follows that his awareness of what  was happening at 
the time would have  led him to take control of his assets. It also follows  that the T 
fund investments between  April and June 2011  would more  likely (than not) not have 
been made. I have  not seen enough evidence to persuade me that WCS  could and 
should have been  obliged to alert Mr B at an earlier point. The same  applies to the A 
fund investment in 2008  I have not seen enough evidence  to show  that the rules 
addressed above, or comparable rules, engaged WCS liability in terms of notifying 
Mr B in 2008. [my emphasis]
The conclusion is that in the absence  of persuasive evidence that WCS could and 
should have been obliged  to alert Mr B earlier than December 2010  or in 2008  
the investment  in the A fund in 2008  happened prior to when the relevant 
responsibility to alert Mr B was engaged.  I retain  this conclusion.
I note the figure given  for the erroneous fees mentioned in the provisional decision.  
However, in terms of considering further compensation for other fees or charges I 
agree with the comment from WCS solicitors. The suggestion to consider such  
compensation does  not appear to have been  presented with reasons  or persuasive 
reasons. I am not persuaded that there  are grounds to consider any such  additional 
compensation in this respect.
I note the points made by Mr Bs solicitors  about the range of issues  that have arisen 
and been considered  in addressing  the complaint. These are issues that this service  
has considered  and addressed. Representations  from both parties  solicitors  have 
been competent and helpful but it remains the case that they were not necessary for 
us to address  the complaint (and its issues)  in the manner that we have. It would 
have been within  our remit and responsibility to address those  issues  even if the 
parties were not legally  represented.  Overall, I retain the conclusion  stated in the 
provisional decision in terms  of Mr Bs legal  costs. 
fair compensation
In terms of redress, my aim is to put Mr B back into the position he would have  held if WCS 
had notified him in December 2010 as I have described in the provisional  decision (which is 
incorporated into this decision). I consider  that a reasonable start date for redress is 1 
December 2010 . In this respect  WCS must: 
Identify and refund to Mr B all of the fee payments from Mr Bs account, to the IFA, 
between December 2010 and April 2011.
Identify and refund to Mr B the fee payments that were  made  erroneously.  Mr Bs 
solicitor says this amounts to £3,772.50, if this is accurate this is the amount due in 
this respect. 
Refund to Mr B the unauthorised payments from his account to the T fund between 
April and June 2011.
Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each  of the payments 
mentioned above to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN12428605In addition to the redress  payment WCS must also pay Mr B £500  for the trouble  and 
upset caused  to him by its delay in meeting his disclosure requests.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in the provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Bs complaint about 
Walker Crips  Investment  Management Limited,  formerly Walker Crips Stockbrokers Ltd. I 
order Walker Crips Investment  Management  Limited, formerly Walker  Crips Stockbrokers 
Ltd, to calculate  redress  as stated above  and to pay Mr B the result,  in addition to £500  for 
the trouble and upset caused to him. I also order Walker Crips Investment Management  
Limited, formerly Walker  Crips Stockbrokers Ltd, to provide a copy of the calculation,  in a 
clear and simple format, to Mr B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the safeguarding of his assets by Walker  Crips Stockbrokers Ltd (WCS) 
and about WCS accountability for them. He says WCS did not uphold  these obligations. Both parties 
are legally represented.
background
WCS says the arrangements  relevant  to Mr Bs complaint  are:
His investments were advised by a third party independent financial  adviser (IFA).
Ref: DRN12428606The IFA and WCS had a master agreement between them,  in November 2007,  for the IFAs 
use of WCS deposit service.
In December 2007  the IFA entered into a separate agreement with WCS, for the IFAs  
introduction of underlying clients to WCS  the indirect customer service. 
From 2008  to 2011 the IFA opened and managed a WCS  execution  only nominee  account for 
Mr B, under WCS  indirect customer service.
According to Mr B, the key issues in his complaint  are:
Unauthorised  investments made by the IFA through his WCS account.  Mr B says the 
investments were:  the A fund, invested around July 2008; the K fund, invested around 
August/September 2010; and the T fund, invested between April and June 2011. His solicitor 
says a total of £51,000  was used for these  investments.
Unauthorised  advisers fees withdrawn by the IFA from his WCS  account. Mr B says this took 
place between July 2008 and April 2011. His solicitor  says about £46,000 was withdrawn  in 
this respect. There is also a complaint  about erroneous  fees that appears to be a part of this 
issue.
Delayed and insufficient  disclosure about his WCS account between 2012 and 2014.  Mr B 
says he was alerted  to the IFAs conduct in early 2012, after which  he made enquiries with 
WCS. His solicitor  says WCS undertook to investigate the matter and then said nothing  
further. Having heard nothing from WCS his pursuit was resumed in 2014, after which he 
received information  but there is some doubt over the completeness of it.
In early 2015 these issues were raised  in a complaint by Mr Bs solicitors to WCS  separately,  a 
complaint was made against  the IFA to the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
WCS solicitors said, to us, that the manner  in which  Mr Bs solicitors have  presented and re-
presented the complaint since its inception  alters the thrust of the complaint.  They  said the complaint 
was previously about WCS  alleged duty of care towards Mr B and that it then morphed  into a 
complaint about WCS alleged duties as a custodian to the IFA. In either  case, the issues that 
prompted the complaint at the outset are as summarised above  and they remain the main issues 
within the complaint at present.
WCS solicitors responded to the complaint on its behalf. The complaint was not upheld,  so the 
solicitors on both sides continued to debate the matters  until it was referred  to this service, and 
thereafter. In the main,  WCS said:
It had no responsibility towards Mr B (its contractual relationship was with the IFA only), no 
responsibility to report to him during the IFAs management of his account, no responsibility to 
monitor the investments  the IFA made through his account and no responsibility to question 
the fees the IFA withdrew from his account.
Mr B (or anyone that was advising him at the time) bears responsibility for not making himself 
aware of the IFAs  conduct before  2012.
Its response to Mr Bs request for disclosure  was reasonable.
Mr B was out of time to complain about any events that were  more than six years old.
In terms of Mr Bs referral of the complaint to this service,  WCS  said we do not have jurisdiction  to 
consider it. It gave reasons for us to dismiss it. An ombudsman (the first ombudsman) considered 
our jurisdiction with regards  to whether  the complaint was a duplication of what  Mr B submitted  to the 
FSCS and whether the complaint was more appropriate for a court.  In September  2016,  she 
concluded that we have jurisdiction to consider  the complaint and that it should not be dismissed. Her 
reasons can be summarised as follows:
Ref: DRN12428607There is evidence from the FSCS  that the complaint it has for Mr B is distinct  and separate  
from the complaint  that has been submitted to this service  so the FSCS complaint ought not 
to be a reason for us to dismiss  the complaint.
Contrary to what WCS solicitors assert,  sufficient evidence has been submitted  to this service 
to allow it to consider  the complaint.
Contrary to what WCS solicitors assert,  there does not appear to be a parallel pursuit, by Mr 
B and against WCS, in the courts and it does not appear to be Mr Bs plan to mount such  a 
pursuit.
 
On 17 November  2016  the first ombudsman issued a provisional decision on the merits of Mr Bs 
complaint. In summary she said:
WCS was the sole custodian  of the assets in Mr Bs account, so WCS  held a direct obligation 
towards him in this respect. 
WCS did not have enough to know something was wrong with the A fund. However, the 
regulators rule at COBS  11.3.2 required WCS to do more  in relation to the K fund when  it 
experienced a delay in receiving contract notes and certificates from the fund. WCS should 
have done more  than it did. 
Had WCS  informed Mr B about the problem in the K fund, as it should have,  he could have 
prevented the T fund investment and the unauthorised  fees withdrawn  by the IFA thereafter. 
WCS should also have  been prompted to notify Mr B in October  2010 when  the IFA withdrew  
fees of £2,800  10 days after withdrawing  fees of £1,200 from the account.  This contrasted 
with the pattern of fee payments of around £1,000 per quarter  previously and should have  
alerted WCS to the need  to inform Mr B.
Mr B should  receive  redress for what WCS did wrong  and £500 for the trouble  and upset  
caused to him.
Both sides submitted  responses to the provisional decision. In summary:
WCS  solicitor repeated  that WCS was not obliged  to monitor  the account or the fees 
withdrawn from it. It said that the process for obtaining  documents for the K fund only became 
unusual around June 2011  when WCS began to consider alerting  the regulator  about  the 
matter; it alerted the regulator in December 2011 after exhausting  its efforts to resolve the 
matter; it had no cause to query the T fund especially as it was an addition to an existing 
holding; this service  should not accept  Mr Bs claim  about the alleged fraud on face value, we 
should verify the details of his FSCS  complaint,  query the arrangement between  him and the 
IFA and verify the investment updates and suitability  reports  the IFA sent him.
Mr Bs solicitor argued that redress should  begin from the A fund because  of the same COBS 
11.3.2 reason the ombudsman cited for the K fund; that WCS  had cause to alert Mr B about 
issues (including a conflict of interest) in the former as it should have done about issues in the 
latter; that, in the alternative, redress should begin from August 2010 in order to capture  the 
full amount invested  in the K fund; that email evidence  shows that WCS had cause to be 
concerned about  the IFA at the time of the K fund, therefore long before June 2011; that an 
error in the fees processed for the IFA caused an additional  deduction of around £3,700 from 
Mr Bs account; that, because the investments were  unknown and unauthorised,  Mr B cannot  
be expected to have the investment updates and suitability reports that WCS  says we should  
verify; and that, in the event of the complaint being  successful, Mr Bs legal costs should  be 
paid by WCS.
Mr Bs complaint was referred  to me in order to address  both parties  comments and in order to 
consider and determine the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12428608In order  to address WCS solicitors concern about a change  in the thrust of the complaint, I have 
referred back to the initial complaint submitted to WCS by Mr Bs solicitors on 16 January 2015. The 
second paragraph of the complaint letter  says:
The purpose of this letter is to set out our clients  concerns regarding  [WCS] negligent administration 
of our clients portfolios and its failure  to safeguard our clients assets 
The letter proceeds  to address the issue  about information disclosure from WCS, the issue about  
unauthorised payments  to the IFA and the issue about unauthorised investments by the IFA. 
Reference is made to an alleged breach  of duty of care by WCS  but, as quoted above, reference is 
also made to an alleged failure of WCS safeguarding  responsibility over Mr Bs assets. 
I consider that the underlying complaint issues  remain the same as I have summarised  above and as 
this service has treated  it to date. I am not persuaded that the thrust  of the complaint has changed. 
The complaint was presented,  at the outset,  and remains  on the basis of an alleged breach of a duty 
of care and an alleged breach of safeguarding  responsibilities (which relates to custodian  
responsibilities).
Jurisdiction
For the sake of completeness, I too have considered our jurisdiction to address Mr Bs complaint. I 
have taken a reasonably comprehensive approach in considering the issues below  which were  not 
addressed by the first ombudsman. 
Regulated Activity.
In the context  of investments, the regulators rules require us to establish that the subject of a 
complaint relates to a regulated activity and/or an ancillary activity   we cannot consider an 
investment related complaint if it does not. As I said above, the complaint is essentially about 
the level of care and safeguarding that was given to Mr Bs assets and investments. This is 
catered for under  the regulated activity of safeguarding  and administering investments. This 
activity is carried out only where assets consist of or include any investment that is a security 
or is a contractually based  investment. Mr Bs assets,  such as the funds mentioned  above, 
are covered by this, so his complaint features the regulated activity  of safeguarding and 
administering investments .
Eligible Complainant.
In the context  of his complaint and in order to establish that he is an eligible complainant  Mr B 
needs to show that he was a consumer and that his complaint  arises from a relationship  with 
WCS that was covered by the regulators rules. 
A consumer  is defined, by the regulator, as any natural person acting for purposes outside his 
trade, business or profession. I have not seen evidence  to suggest that investment dealing  or 
management, safeguarding  or administration  of investments  was part of Mr Bs trade, 
business or profession. Evidence is that he was a director in a number of companies but it 
does not appear that Mr Bs arrangements with the IFA and WCS were undertaken for 
purposes related  to his trade,  business or profession. As such, I am satisfied  that he was a 
consumer.
It is less straightforward to consider whether Mr B had a relationship with WCS that was 
covered by the regulators rules. This is because, as stated above,  the arrangement was 
presented by WCS and the IFA as being a relationship only between  the two of them. 
However, I can and will review whether this was the case in real terms.
Ref: DRN12428609Within the terms  of the indirect customer agreement between WCS and the IFA, WCS agreed 
to treat the IFAs customers as its clients for the purposes of all the Rules of the FSA   
reference to the FSA relates to the industry regulator at the time, the Financial Services 
Authority, now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Within the same terms, WCS  also 
said it would categorise the client in accordance with the regulators rules  and that it would 
deal exclusively with the IFA, who will be acting on behalf of its underlying customer.
In the context  of agency , this arrangement  meant that despite the absence  of a written 
contract between WCS and Mr B, there nevertheless existed a contractual relationship 
between them. The IFA was Mr Bs agent in its relationship with WCS and Mr Bs identity and 
existence as the principal was known to WCS  there is evidence to support this in the form of 
account opening documents completed  by WCS and portfolio valuation  documents  produced 
by WCS,  all of which bear Mr Bs full name.   
I have not seen any evidence of WCS receiving express authorisation  from Mr B that the IFA 
was acting  for him. The indirect customer terms of business entered  into between  WCS and 
the IFA say that the IFA warranted  that he had the underlying clients authorisation to act 
within the terms  of business  and that WCS was to assume the IFA had the underlying clients  
authorisation for the IFA to give his express consent on behalf  of the client,  where the clients 
consent was needed.  As a known and disclosed principal in the relationship between  WCS  
and the IFA, Mr B had an undeniable presence and rights  in the relationship  one of which, 
as expressly stated in the indirect customer agreement and as mentioned above, was the 
right to be regarded as WCS client.
Arguably and because of this content within the indirect  customer  agreement, Mr B might not 
even need to rely upon  the law of agency  to establish that he was a client of WCS.  The 
regulators rules cover the relationship between a client and a business. In the context of the 
relationship between  WCS  and Mr B, Mr B was a client  of WCS  under  the regulators rules. 
The rules say a client is a person to whom a firm provides, intends to provide or has provided 
a service in the course of carrying  on a regulated  activity. WCS  provided Mr B the nominee 
shareholding account  service in the course of the regulated activity of safeguarding and 
administering investments. 
The regulators rules did provide for a firm like WCS to have treated  the IFA as its client,  not 
the underlying  customer  the relevant  rule is COBS  2.4.3(1). However,  because WCS  had 
confirmed in writing (with the IFA) that it would treat Mr B as its client then COBS 2.4.3R(2)(a) 
applies to the relationship and means that Mr B was WCSs  client.  I also note that there are 
portfolio valuation  reports  from WCS, for Mr Bs account,  that were issued in 2010, 2011  and 
2012, and in which Mr B is classified  as a retail client.
Mr B was a consumer  and his complaint arises from a relationship with WCS  that was 
covered by the regulators rules. To be considered an eligible complainant Mr B also needs to 
be a customer of WCS,  on its natural meaning. For the reasons set out above, I consider Mr 
B to have been a customer of WCS because he received  services from WCS  and paid a 
regular fee for this. I consider that none of the exceptions within the rules  apply to negate his 
status in this respect.
Time.
The regulators rules say that we cannot consider a complaint referred more than six years 
after the event or (if later) more than three years after the complainant knew or ought  
reasonably to have known there  was cause  to complain  unless the complainant has a 
written (or some other) record that shows a complaint was made  in time.  A late complaint can 
be considered  where exceptional circumstances have caused the delay.
Ref: DRN124286010The issues within Mr Bs complaint began in July 2008. He needed  to complain by July 2014 
to meet the regulators  six years time limit for all of the issues. There  is evidence  of WCS 
solicitors responding, on 17 April 2015, to the Letter of Claim dated 16 January 2015 sent by 
Mr Bs solicitors. I have  not seen any evidence  of an earlier record  of complaint  from Mr B  
or on his behalf. As such,  it appears  that he complained outsider the regulators six years time 
limit.
However, his complaint to this service can still be considered if it meets  the regulators three 
years time limit  as summarised above.
In their letter to this service, dated 4 September 2015, WCS solicitors said that Mr B 
instructed his solicitors   by March 2012  at the very latest. They  said Mr B  must have 
been aware  that something  had gone wrong by January 2012. They  argued that, in relation 
to the unauthorised transfers  between  2008  and 2011,  it ought to have been apparent to Mr 
B before  January  2012 that  his funds were not being invested  as he believed  so his 
complaint about the investment in The A fund in July 2008 falls outside the three years time 
limit.
There appears to be no dispute that Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware that 
something had gone wrong at a point between January 2012 and March 2012,  during which  
period he instructed his solicitors  if this is in dispute,  I have not seen evidence  to support an 
alternative view.  The regulators rules relate to timely  submission of a complaint either to this 
service or to WCS. As such, if I conclude that Mr B ought reasonably to have had cause to 
complain between January  and March  2012, it follows  that his complaint to WCS  in January  
2015 met the three years time limit. I have drawn  this specific  conclusion.
WCS solicitors have  suggested that such a conclusion  should  not apply  to the matter of the A 
fund investment in July 2008. They do not appear to have said precisely  or roughly when, 
prior to January  2012, or why they assert that Mr B ought  reasonably to have had cause to 
complain about this investment.
Having considered  evidence in this case, I am satisfied that the relevant  events that feature 
the IFA were concealed by the IFA from Mr B up to 2012  and WCS did not bring  them  to his 
attention at the time. Around  the middle of 2011 his accountant  was in the process of 
preparing his tax returns and faced problems  in getting portfolio related information from the 
IFA. Over the following months the accountants pursuit for that information was redirected  to 
WCS and by early 2012 Mr B realised he had cause for concern. Further below, I elaborate 
slightly on this in terms of addressing WCS solicitors claim that Mr B ought to have suitability 
and advice related evidence for the investments. In terms of our jurisdiction, I am satisfied 
that a lack of knowledge about the investments  would have meant that Mr B was unaware 
that they were being made without his consent  or that fees he had not agreed to were  also 
being paid without his consent.
As I said above, Mr B was alerted to the issues with the IFA in early 2012  and his contact  with 
WCS, and through his solicitors,  at the time indicates when he knew and ought reasonably to 
have known he had concerns  or cause to complain. There is no evidence that the IFAs  
actions in 2008 were  known to Mr B before 2012 and it is therefore reasonable to consider 
that he could not have had cause  to complain  about something  he was unaware of. As such, I 
am not satisfied that this issue should be separated as WCS  solicitors have suggested. 
Overall, I conclude  that Mr B became aware  that he had cause  for concern about the IFA and 
events in his account  between  January  and March 2012, and I have not seen evidence  to 
suggest he ought reasonably to have become  aware any sooner than that. That led to 
knowledge of the issues in his present  complaint.  It is more likely (than not) that he knew 
something was wrong at the time so he either had or ought reasonably to have had cause for 
complaint from that period. As such, his complaint  to WCS in January 2015  was within  the 
regulators three  years time limit.
Ref: DRN124286011Merits
The complaint about unauthorised investments and fee withdrawals prompt  the consideration  of the 
obligations that WCS had as a regulated firm safeguarding Mr Bs investments. Before  doing this, it is 
worth briefly noting what happened in relation to the IFA and the K fund:
The IFA and his partner  in the IFAs firm were directors of the K fund,  which failed after Mr Bs 
investment.
Subsequently:
oThe IFAs firm had its permissions withdrawn by the regulator  (for non-payment of the 
regulators fees);
oThe IFA was disqualified  as a director; and
oThe regulator issued  a prohibition order against the IFA, based on the information 
contained in the IFAs director disqualification  undertaking. This included (i) misusing 
clients funds; and (ii) using clients funds  for inappropriate investments. 
Overall, I accept Mr Bs claim  that the three investments were unknown  by him until early 2012 and 
that they were unauthorised.  The IFA provided an advisory and investment management  service  to 
Mr B. The arrangement related to investment recommendations from the IFA to Mr B and required Mr 
Bs instructions prior to investments. I have not seen evidence of recommendations or requests for 
instructions for the three investments. Mr B says he was not sent such documentation and I have not 
seen sufficient  evidence to doubt his account,  so on balance I accept it. As such  and as his solicitor 
has argued, it follows that he cannot reasonably  be expected to produce suitability or investment 
update documents that do not appear to have been sent to him by the IFA.
WCS obligations in relation  to the unauthorised investments
Mr Bs solicitors core argument is based on the assumption that if Mr B had been  given notice, by 
WCS, of the IFAs conduct or the investments he would  have prevented further activity in his account. 
I agree. It is reasonable to conclude that such notice would more likely (than not) have resulted in Mr 
B taking all or more control over his funds  and investments.  
Principles for businesses
WCS had to comply with the regulators principles for businesses and any wider safeguarding and 
reporting related responsibilities that arose from them,  as well as the regulators  COBS and CASS  
rules discussed below.  In this context,  the question  for me to address is whether  (or not), given the 
regulatory obligations placed on WCS by the principles as well as other rules discussed below,  WCS 
acted fairly and reasonably  in not alerting Mr B and/or, in wider terms,  the regulator to its concerns 
about the issues it eventually  raised  with the regulator, at some point before it contacted  the regulator 
in December 2011. 
In this regard I note the following:
Principle 6  WCS has a duty to pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly. As I concluded above, Mr B was WCSs customer and WCS  therefore  had a duty 
to consider his interests and to treat him fairly..
Principle 10  WCS  has a duty to arrange adequate protection for its clients assets when  it is 
responsible for them.  As I have  concluded above, Mr B was WCSs client and therefore  it had 
a duty to arrange  adequate protection for his assets while  it was responsible  for them, as it 
was while it held his assets in an execution-only  nominee account.
Principle 11  WCS  has a duty to disclose to the regulator anything  related  to its work that the 
regulator would reasonably expect to know.  Relevant to this duty is the Supervision rule 
under SUP 15.3 (General notification requirements). SUP 15.3.1 R (3) says a firm must notify 
the regulator immediately it becomes aware  of  any matter which could affect the firms  
ability to continue  to provide  adequate services to its customers and which could  result in 
Ref: DRN124286012serious detriment  to a customer of the firm  a customer like Mr B. Also relevant are the 
CASS rules quoted  below,  which also give rise to a principle 11 obligation in certain  situations 
(CASS 6.5.13R and CASS  7.6.16R).
On balance, I conclude that WCS had obligations  to Mr B under principles 6 and 10 that are relevant  
to the circumstances of this complaint. As I said above, he was WCS client and WCS was providing 
him with the regulated service of safeguarding and administering his investments.  The consideration 
that follows  from that is  what  obligations did WCS have to notify Mr B directly of its concerns? In this 
respect, the COBS and CASS rules discussed below have  featured in the debate between both 
parties and are also relevant  to the question of what WCS should have told Mr B and when   and I 
will address them below. I consider that, as a minimum, the obligations upon WCS, from principles  6 
and 10, meant  that it did not act fairly  and reasonably  in not alerting Mr B to its concerns  sooner. The 
reasons behind  this view relate to WCS  knowledge  and concerns about the IFAs  conduct  related to 
the failure to provide contract  documentation  for the K fund investment.
With regard to principle 11, this obligation is relevant because WCS decided to make a principle 11 
notification to the FSA about the IFAs conduct in December 2011, including the IFAs potential 
conflicts of interest. If it had made this notification sooner, the chain of events which followed the 
December 2011 notification (resulting in Mr B becoming aware of the investments and fee 
withdrawals made by the IFA without his knowledge or consent), would  have started  sooner and he 
would have been able to take control  of his funds  and investments sooner. As explained below, I have 
concluded that by December 2010 WCS was aware  (or ought to have been aware)  that the lack of 
contract documentation provided for the K fund investment (and WCSs related inability to perform the 
appropriate reconciliation) and its knowledge about the IFAs conflicts  of interest gave it cause to be 
concerned about the IFAs conduct. Therefore, in all the circumstances of this complaint I think it is 
fair and reasonable to have expected WCS to notify the FCA about those  concerns sooner  than it did, 
and by December 2010 at the latest.   
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS)
I consider the COBS rules  as follows:
COBS 2.4 (Agent  as client  and reliance  on others). This rule relates  to investment services  
and activities (including ancillary services) carried out by a firm  some parts  of the rule relate  
to firms covered by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID). WCS  was covered 
by MiFID however,  as this service recently verified with the regulator, the IFA firm was Article 
3 MiFID exempt between November  2007 and 29 March 2011.  This means  that, during this 
period, the IFA did not come within the FCA Handbook definition  of MiFID investment firm, 
and therefore certain parts of COBS do/do not apply accordingly.
COBS 2.4.4R applies  specifically to arrangements  where a MiFID  firm provides its service  to 
a client through another MiFID firm. WCS solicitors have relied upon a part of this rule that 
says the service providing firm is entitled to rely upon information about  the client given to it 
by the intermediary firm and that the latter remains responsible  for dealing directly  with the 
client. The suggestion  appears to be that this applies  to Mr Bs case and negates  the notion  
that WCS  had any duty to deal directly with Mr B about  events  in the nominee account.
WCS argument is that the COBS rules above apply to limit its responsibility  in Mr Bs case and that it 
could not reasonably have  been expected to verify matters  with Mr B directly. For the reasons given  
below, I do not agree  that WCS responsibility  is limited in this way. I consider that wider and other 
COBS rules also need to be considered.
COBS 2.1.1R  This sets the clients best interests rule and requires a firm to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in this respect. I consider this relevant to the idea of Mr B receiving 
notice of WCS concerns about the IFA and about  his behaviour in relation to the K fund. If 
such notice had been  given Mr B would  have been alerted  to an investment  he was unaware 
of and had not instructed. He would  have been in a position to take control of his assets (or 
remaining assets) from that point.  
Ref: DRN124286013I also consider  it relevant  to the idea of Mr B being made aware of the IFAs conflicted  
interests. Had WCS given such notice  to Mr B he would  have been alerted  to it, he could  have 
considered that it was against his best interests and, perhaps  more importantly, he would 
have been alerted to the K fund investment that he had not instructed his IFA to make.  Again, 
he would have been in a position to take control of his assets (or remaining  assets) from that 
point. 
Evidence suggests that WCS knew about the IFAs conflict of interests before its letter to the 
regulator in December 2011. There is email correspondence between WCS and the IFA in 
June 2011 and onwards in which queries are put by the former to the latter in relation to 
issuing contract or unit related documentation  for investments (related to a group of clients)  in 
the K fund. WCS sought those documents and they should  have been issued by the IFA, his 
colleagues in the K fund; and/or the administrator of the fund.  
It appears that when WCS efforts were frustrated in its dealings with the administrator,  and 
by June 2011,  it reverted  to the IFA in the hope of achieving progress. This suggests that by 
June 2011 WCS knew the IFA was involved in the K fund but, on balance,  I am persuaded  
that WCS  knew about  the IFAs conflicted interests earlier. Evidence exists  in the form of an 
email from WCS to the administrator on 10 February 2011  about investments by WCS 
group of clients into the fund in July 2010 for which  documentation  was still outstanding. This 
suggests that WCS began  its pursuit in 2010, at a time after the investments in July that year 
when the delay was noticeable. I do not consider  that the delay would have been unnoticed 
by the end of 2010, five months after the clients investments were made, so it is more likely 
(than not) to have been  noticed and to have  prompted  WCS  pursuit by December  2010 at the 
latest. 
My provisional  conclusion is that it is more likely (than not) that WCS was aware  of the IFAs  
involvement (and therefore  conflict of interests)  in the K fund at a point between July and 
December 2010 and that it should have notified Mr B about the IFAs  conflict of interests at 
the time. I do not have enough evidence  to say precisely  when, during this period in 2010, it 
was aware of the IFAs conflict of interests so I invite evidence from both parties that might  
help to determine this.
In addition, I provisionally conclude that the matter of missing contract documentation, on its 
own or as was relevant  to the conflict of interests issue, was one that WCS  should  also have 
notified Mr B about before  the end of 2010. An email  from WCS to the K funds administrator  
in June 2011  says that, at the time, it had been waiting  to receive documentation for its group 
of clients  for  12 to 18 months  since the clients investments were made into the [K fund].  
That suggests  a starting point between January and June 2010.  Mr Bs investment in the K 
fund was made around September 2010 and by then WCS was already experiencing  a delay, 
from the fund,  of between three  to nine months. After  Mr Bs investment and by the end of 
2010 the delay would have been between six months to a year.  On balance,  I consider that by 
the end of 2010 the length of the delay was sufficient to have led WCS to inform Mr B about 
the matter, due to its COBS 2.1.1R obligations to Mr B, but also because  of its CASS 6 and 7 
obligations to Mr B as discussed below. WCSs principle 6 and 10 obligations described 
above are also relevant.   
COBS 2.4.6(2) says A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook 
that requires it to obtain  information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person . 
COBS 2.4.4R as mentioned  above and as cited by WCS solicitors, does not apply to this 
complaint until after 29 March 2011 when  the IFA became a MiFID firm (because it ceased to 
enjoy the relevant  exemption). The implication for Mr Bs case is that the manner in which 
WCS should have treated any investment instructions received from the IFA after this date 
would have been subject  to this rule. The argument would  be that, as the rule says,  WCS was 
Ref: DRN124286014entitled to rely upon such instructions  being instructions from an intermediary MiFID firm  
and was not obliged  to question  them despite  what I have said above (and will say further  
below) about  WCS questioning the IFA from the end of 2010 onwards. 
Its alternative is COBS 2.4.6(2), under the heading  Reliance on others: other situations. As 
quoted above, where this rule applies,  a firms  reliance on an intermediarys instructions is 
subject to the firm showing  it was reasonable to so rely. COBS 2.4.8G provides  guidance as 
to what  is reasonable and it says It will generally be reasonable  for a firm to rely on 
information provided  to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person  unless it is aware 
or ought reasonably  to be aware of any fact that would give reasonable  grounds to question 
the accuracy of that information. 
In terms of the isolated  matter of instructions received,  by WCS, from the IFA after 29 March 
2011 I accept that the relevant rule on WCS reliance on such instructions is COBS 2.4.4R. 
However, I consider it fair and reasonable to take a composite  not isolated   approach to 
this point. For the period leading  up to 29 March  2011 COBS 2.4.4R would  not have applied,  
COBS 2.4.6(2) would have applied instead. This complaint is about  a continuous  period over 
which the IFA and WCS interacted with each other over investment instructions  for Mr Bs 
account and the remittances of fees from the account.  In the context of our fair and 
reasonable approach it would be somewhat  artificial  and arguably unfair  to say, with reasons, 
that WCS  had cause to question instructions from the IFA from the end of December onwards 
(and up to 29 April 2011),  that it ought to have done so but that only because  of a change  in 
the IFAs MiFID  status such cause disappeared from 30 April 2011.
I consider that the reasonableness of WCS relying upon information from the IFA at a time 
when it had ongoing concerns about the IFA must be called into question. I consider that this 
applies to both the investments and the fee payments (discussed below) within  the nominee 
account. I consider that, on balance,  WCS ought  to have had cause to inform Mr B about 
concerns related to the contract  documentation and the IFAs conflicted interests by 
December 2010 at the latest. In the context  of WCS raising such concerns it follows that from 
December 2010 until at least the end of March 2011  and arguably thereafter  it would not 
have been reasonable  for WCS to rely upon information from the IFA. 
I do not have enough evidence to conclude  that WCS reached this point  of frustration  
and/or concern about the IFA  before Mr Bs K fund in August/September 2010. If so, a 
compelling argument  is that it would  not have been  reasonable for WCS to rely upon any 
representation the IFA gave about  Mr B consenting to or being aware of investment  in the K 
fund. Given that this is a provisional decision,  I invite any relevant evidence that might  assist 
in this respect. Otherwise and in the absence of such evidence, I consider  that all the 
instructions WCS received  from the IFA from December 2010 ought  reasonably to have been 
questioned  to put it another  way, WCS could  not have reasonably relied upon anything the 
IFA said in relation to Mr Bs account from December  2010 onwards.  
Guidance (at PERG 2.7.9 G) within the regulators rules says safeguarding relates  to a firms 
role as custodian of the customers property. In investment terms, this includes holding  assets 
such as money and share certificates. The difficulties  that WCS had with the K fund, its 
administrator and the IFA related to completion of investments and production of certificates 
and documentation  relevant to those investments.  Those difficulties were also the basis on 
which WCS became frustrated with, became concerned about and, eventually, lost trust in the 
fund and the IFA.
For the reasons  given  above, I consider that by December 2010,  at the latest, WCS ought 
reasonably to have notified Mr B about the difficulties and its concerns about the investment, 
the fund and the IFA. I do not suggest that WCS should have  known, at that time,  that the 
fund was due to fail and/or  that the IFA would  be prohibited by the regulator in relation to the 
fund. However I am persuaded that, on balance, it knew enough to notify Mr B as I have 
explained above. 
Ref: DRN124286015If WCS had notified  Mr B of its concerns  in December 2010 it follows that his awareness of 
what was happening at the time would  have led him to take control  of his assets. It also 
follows that the T fund investments between April and June  2011 would  more likely (than not) 
not have been made. I have not seen enough evidence to persuade me that WCS could  and 
should have been obliged to alert Mr B at an earlier point. The same applies  to the A fund 
investment in 2008  I have not seen enough evidence  to show that the rules  addressed 
above, or comparable rules,  engaged WCS liability  in terms of notifying Mr B in 2008.
CASS Client Assets Rules
This complaint is about  the safeguarding and administering of Mr Bs investments (his assets). It 
follows that there are CASS rules, especially  in relation to the safe custody of such assets, which  are 
applicable to the issues. I consider the following:
The rule under CASS  6.5.6 (R), as it was in 2009 and 2010, said  A firm must conduct on a 
regular basis, reconciliations between its internal  accounts and records and those of any third 
parties by whom those  safe custody assets are held. The guidance  at the time,  under CASS 
6.5.7 (G), said  Where  a firm deposits safe custody  assets belonging  to a client with a third 
party, in complying with the requirements of CASS 6.5.6 R , the firm should seek to ensure that 
the third party will deliver to the firm a statement as at a date or dates  specified by the firm 
which details the description and amounts  of all the safe custody assets credited  to the account, 
and that this statement is delivered in adequate time to allow the firm to carry  out the periodic  
reconciliations required  in CASS 6.5.6 R.
Further guidance at CASS 6.5.8 (G) said  A firm should perform the reconciliation  required 
by CASS 6.5.6 R:
(1) as regularly as is necessary; and
(2) as soon as reasonably  practicable after the date to which the reconciliation  relates;
to ensure the accuracy of its internal accounts and records against those  of third parties  by 
whom safe custody assets are held.
In the event that problems arise, the rule at CASS 6.5.13 (R) said  A firm must  inform [the 
regulator] in writing without delay:
(1)If it has not complied with, or is unable, in any material respect, to comply  with the 
requirements in CASS 6.5.1 R, CASS 6.5.2R or CASS 6.5.6  R
There were  broadly  similar provisions under  CASS 7.6 at the time of the events  in Mr Bs 
case.
I refer again to the email  evidence from February 2011 between WCS and the fund 
administrators for the K fund. On 10 February WCS queried contract  notes for investments  in 
the fund that had not been received  and it said it wanted to know why they had not been 
received at the time, as the contract notes  would enable [them] to verify all investments as 
they were made.  In the June email I mentioned earlier above,  WCS referred  to the matter 
having  been  dragging  on for 12  18 months since the clients investments were made  
and said it had an obligation  under the regulators rules  to reconcile the investments but 
[were] unable  to do so until [the fund/its administrators]  provided  the requisite documents  
(including the contract  notes).
This provides an insight into what appears to be WCS awareness, at the time, of its 
reconciliation obligation  under CASS 6.5.6 (R). The obligation  was to do this on a regular 
basis  and guidance at the time said this meant it was to be done  as soon as reasonably 
practicable after the date to which  the reconciliation  relates. As I provisionally  concluded 
Ref: DRN124286016above the delayed  documentation appears  to have related to WCS clients investments  in the 
K fund from around  January 2010 onwards, Mr Bs investment was around September 2010 
and I said that by December 2010 the delay for the clients investments was between  six 
months to a year old. It follows that no reconciliations took place during the delay  so by 
December 2010 those reconciliations were overdue  three months overdue for Mr Bs 
investment and perhaps acutely overdue for those who invested long before him. I 
provisionally conclude  that by December 2010, at the latest, WCS  was obliged under  CASS  
6.5.13 to notify the regulator  about its problems  in discharging its reconciliation  obligation. It 
delayed, unreasonably, in doing this for another year until it wrote to the regulator in 
December 2011.
Fee Withdrawals
The first ombudsman  provisionally concluded that WCS should  have been prompted to notify Mr B in 
October 2010 when the IFA withdrew  fees of £2,800, 10 days after withdrawing fees of £1,200 from 
the account.  She considered that the withdrawal contrasted with the pattern of fee payments of 
around £1,000 per quarter previously and that it should have alerted  WCS  to the need to inform  Mr B.
The TOB did not oblige  WCS to monitor the fee withdrawals from Mr Bs account. However, it follows 
that if WCS had told him about its concerns about the K fund and the IFA in December 2010 he would  
have been on notice from then. He would have learnt about the unauthorised  fees and he would have 
prevented any further fee withdrawals. As such, I consider that WCS should be responsible for all fee 
withdrawals by the IFA, including any erroneous fees,  from December 2010  onwards. 
WCSs disclosure  to Mr B
I consider that Mr B ought not to have been subjected to the delays, between 2012 and 2014,  in WCS  
meeting his requests for disclosure about his account  and assets.  That disclosure  would have been  
an urgent matter for him at the time, given the realisation  that something had gone wrong with his 
assets. The delay is more  likely (than not) to have  compounded the distress  and anxiety he was 
probably facing at the time. In the context of the notification(s) from WCS  which this decision  has 
provisionally concluded ought  to have been given  to Mr B since December 2010, WCS  ought  not to 
have delayed  such disclosure in 2012. In 2012 it knew the matter  concerning the IFAs conduct  was 
serious because it had referred it to the regulator in December 2011,  Mr Bs solicitors became directly  
involved in the matter by March 2012 and by July 2012 the regulator  informed it that the IFAs 
authority had been cancelled.  Given such apparent gravity  in the matter, I consider  that a delay in 
obtaining full disclosure from WCS, which continued for around two years into 2014,  would have 
taken its toll on Mr B. For the trouble  and upset caused to him in this respect he should be paid £500.
FSCS Complaint
For the sake of completeness, I confirm that I have verified the details  of Mr Bs FSCS complaint  
against the IFA. The compensation received relates to investments separate and distinct from those 
that feature in his complaint within this service  against WCS. As such, there is no merit in the 
suggestion that his complaint to this service duplicates his complaint to the FSCS. However, should 
any part of an investment  related to the T fund become  crystallisable (as described by the FSCS),  Mr 
B should not seek compensation from the FSCS.
Legal Costs
I have noted the argument presented by Mr Bs solicitor in this respect.  However, in straightforward 
terms, it is normally  the approach within this service  for complaints like       Mr Bs that cost awards 
are not issued if they are successful. As Mr Bs solicitor  has noted, the regulators rules say that cost 
awards from this service  are the exception  not the rule. I acknowledge that Mr B has been 
competently represented by his solicitor. However, I do not consider that there was an absolute  
requirement for legal representations on behalf of Mr Bs complaint  or a requirement  to an extent 
Ref: DRN124286017that warrants a cost award against WCS. This service has addressed comparable complaints  in which 
there were no legal representations on behalf of the complainant.
fair compensation
In terms of redress, my aim is to put Mr B back into the position he would have held if WCS had 
notified him in December 2010 as I have described above. I consider that a reasonable start date for 
redress is 1 December 2010 . In this respect WCS must: 
Identify and refund to Mr B all of the fee payments from Mr Bs account, to the IFA, between  
December 2010 and April 2011.
Identify and refund to Mr B the fee payments that were made erroneously.
Refund to Mr B the unauthorised  payments  from his account to the T fund between April and 
June 2011.
Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each of the payments 
mentioned above  to the date of settlement.
In addition to the redress payment WCS must also pay Mr B £500 for the trouble  and upset  
caused to him by its delay in meeting his disclosure  requests.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I provisionally uphold  Mr Bs complaint against Walker  Crips 
Stockbrokers Ltd. If this provisional decision  is retained I will order Walker Crips  Stockbrokers Ltd to 
calculate redress as stated above and to pay Mr B the result, in addition  to £500 for the trouble and 
upset caused to him. I will also order Walker  Crips Stockbrokers Ltd to provide a copy  of the 
calculation, in a clear  and simple format, to Mr B.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1242860