K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr A says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they explained that, although 
Halifax says it didnt  do anything wrong  in relation to the commission on the policy, its made 
an offer as if it had.
Mr As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And as Halifax has offered to pay back  some of the 
cost of the PPI, I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. Ive summarised my reasons for 
each of these  conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Ive seen the part of Mr As mortgage application which  referred to PPI, this asked him to 
sign if he was interested in taking out the cover, and Mr A signed this part of the form. 
Mr A then also signed a separate PPI application  form which set out the cost of the PPI. 
Neither of these forms suggested  that the PPI was in any way compulsory. Although I 
cant know exactly what was said at the time, the evidence I have seen suggests to me 
that Halifax did made it clear that Mr A didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out.
Ref: DRN17111822Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr As circumstances at the time, shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. For example Mr A was eligible for the cover  
and had limited  means to fall back on, so he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr As employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr A says he had been  affected by a number of 
medical conditions  both when the PPI was taken out and sometime  before it was taken 
out, the policy didnt exclude cover for existing medical conditions.  And I havent  seen 
any evidence to suggest Mr A wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions. 
So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr A as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably  thought he was buying  from the information  he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr A would have declined the 
cover had Halifax done anything more.
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
and Hailfax may not have told Mr A bout those limitations. And I accept back  pain and 
mental health conditions are common problems and the steps required  to make a 
disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr A might reasonably have 
expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this limitation 
might have  dissuaded some consumers  in slightly different circumstances to Mr A from 
taking out the policy,  Mr A, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it 
out. So I dont  think these limitations  would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Halifax may also not have told Mr A that any claim he made would be limited to a 
24-month period, and that there  would then be certain conditions  he might  have to meet  
to requalify for a new claim. This may have differed from what  he expected and might 
have hoped for. But he had limited other means to fall back  on and in those 
circumstances, I consider it likely Mr A would still have thought  a policy  that paid up to 24 
monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy did allow for multiple  claims to be made under certain conditions, it 
could help reduce his outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure  his home 
was not placed at risk. 
Overall, I consider that Mr A would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given his circumstances. I also think the policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting.  And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event. I also think its worth  noting that 
Mr A made a claim on his policy in 2005, and claimed for the full 24 months allowed for each 
claim under the policy, he received over £7,000  as a result of that claim, more  than he paid 
in premiums for the policy.
Mr As representative raised  a number of what I consider to be general  complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Ref: DRN17111823Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Halifax should  have disclosed  the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr As representative  didnt say how these points apply to the specific facts  and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more  
it needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr As representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr A should get back all the money he paid for the policy  
because: Halifax  failed to tell Mr A about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,  
the low claims  ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr A wouldnt have taken out the policy  
had they known about the level of commission and he should  receive  a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr As PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Halifax has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr As case  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN17111824-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed  to tell Mr A about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont  think  
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mr A unfairly. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  need to pay Mr A back any of the commission  he paid for the 
PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Mr A some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr A as if it had treated him unfairly.  So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr As complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) didnt need to 
disclose the commission  it received,  it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr A 
paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr A. Halifax should  now make  arrangements  to pay Mr A if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2021.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1711182