K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  (Derbyshire Building  Society  at the time) 
mis-sold them the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Nationwide throughout  this decision rather than 
Derbyshire Building  Society.
background
The policy Mr and Mrs M have complained about was sold in May 2001   roughly two years  
after they took the mortgage the policy protected.  
Nationwide says the policy only covered Mr M for involuntary unemployment.
Unhappy with Nationwides response  to the complaint, Mr and Mrs M referred  it to us. One of 
our adjudicators looked at it and came to the view that the policy hadnt been  mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with what our adjudicator had to say. So the complaint was passed 
to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in February  2019  a copy  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. I wasnt persuaded the policy had been mis-sold. So I didnt 
think Nationwide had to return  everything Mr and Mrs M had paid for the PPI. But Nationwide  
has offered to pay back some of the cost of the policy. And I thought that offer was fair.
In response to my PD, neither party asked me to consider any new information and/or 
arguments. So, with that being the case,  Ive decided to go ahead  and issue my final 
decision now that the deadline in my PD has passed.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account  in deciding 
this case.
And having done all of that, I still dont think the policy was mis-sold  for the same reasons 
Ive already given.  So heres  a summary.
Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs M agreed  to take the policy.  I also think  its more likely  they 
did so knowing they had a choice when  making  that decision.
It doesnt look like the policy  was recommended by Nationwide. But, as I said in my PD, 
there is some uncertainty over this particular point. However, based on what  Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, Im not persuaded the policy would have  been  an unsuitable 
recommendation to make.  And I dont think better information about the policy  would have 
led them  to make a different  decision and not take the cover.
As a result, I remain of the view that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back  the entire cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN12837432But as Ive already said,  Nationwide has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs M because  it got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premiums) - which it should have  told them  about that. Because  Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums. And given everything Ive said on the merits 
of this complaint,  I still think  that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2019
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12837433copy  of my provisional  decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
And having done that, I dont currently think the policy  was mis-sold. I realise this will be disappointing 
for Mr and Mrs M as I dont doubt their strength of feeling. But I hope they will understand why Ive 
reached this initial conclusion.
In Mr and Mrs Ms response to Nationwides final response  to the complaint, they said that they didnt 
know they had been sold the policy. They also said it would have been sold as an essential.
I dont doubt the honesty of Mr and Mrs Ms recollections  or assertions.  But the event  in question  did 
take place roughly  18 years ago. And that sort of timeframe does create its own difficulties. So, when 
weighing up whats likely to have  happened in 2001, I have  to take into account the length of time 
thats passed since the policy was sold.
Having considered  everything  both sides have  said and provided throughout this complaint, Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs M agreed to take the policy  (albeit in Mr Ms name  only). And Im not 
persuaded it wasnt clear  to them that the policy  was optional.
I say this because Nationwide has provided  us with a copy of a PPI application form signed by both 
Mr and Mrs M. Its clear  from this that PPI wasnt added to their mortgage unknowingly. And as 
Nationwides internal  contact notes indicate that Mr M contacted it in July 2011 to find out whether  his 
wife was a named policyholder, its clear  in my view  that Mr and Mrs M did know that they had 
been sold PPI.
Whats more, as the policy was sold after Mr and Mrs M had already successfully applied for their 
mortgage roughly two years  earlier, I find it hard to argue that holding on to the mortgage was 
contingent on them taking PPI when there isnt any compelling to suggest  that was the case.
I know Mr M says that he had difficulties with English,  such  that he says he wouldnt have completed 
the application form for PPI. But he and Mrs M were able to go through  a mortgage application only 
two years earlier  which is, by its very nature,  a more involved and complicated process. So Im not 
persuaded that changes what Ive already  said.
In response to our adjudicators assessment, Mr M said he was made  redundant in 2002 but didnt 
claim  which  he seems to suggest supports the assertion that he and Mrs M werent  aware that they 
had been sold PPI. I can understand why theyre making  this argument.  But its difficult  to reconcile 
this with the PPI application  form signed by Mr and Mrs M and the contact Mr M made with 
Nationwide in 2011.
Overall, therefore, there  isnt any persuasive  evidence  to support the argument that Nationwide sold 
PPI without Mr and Mrs Ms agreement  nor is there any such evidence to suggest they had to take 
the policy  to keep the mortgage  they had already  successfully applied  for and paid towards  for 
roughly two years.
As a result, this leaves me with the rest of the sale to consider. Nationwide says in its final response 
letter to Mr and Mrs M that it didnt recommend the PPI. But it also says slightly later on in the letter 
that it recommended accident, sickness and unemployment cover with a monthly benefit of £453 
without explaining why it was saying  two seemingly  different things. 
Ref: DRN12837434Theres little if any persuasive evidence  from the time of sale that suggests  a personal 
recommendation was made to Mr and Mrs M. But this particular issue isnt crucial  to the outcome at 
this stage because I think the cover in question would have been a suitable recommendation to make 
anyway. So, with this said, Ill consider what Nationwide had to do if  for arguments  sake   the policy 
had been recommended. 
Whenever a business recommended  PPI, it had to make sure it was suitable  for the prospective 
policyholder(s) given their needs and circumstances.  On this particular occasion, that would have 
meant Nationwide had to make sure the policy was suitable in light Mr Ms circumstances and, to 
some extent, those of Mrs M. 
And based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded it would have  been. I say this because  Mr M wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the cover  and there seems to have been a need for it.  
Mr M says he was entitled  to some  sick pay from his employer. He also says that, between him and 
Mrs M, they had roughly  £25,000 in savings. However,  the policy only included unemployment cover. 
So Mr Ms sick pay isnt relevant to the outcome in this complaint. As for the £25,000,  there isnt any 
mention of any savings in the relevant section of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application form  which I 
find difficult to explain  when the form was filled in only two years before they say the money  was 
available to them. Mr M has provided a letter from Nationwide to demonstrate that Mrs M had savings 
of roughly £7,000 in June 2001. But there isnt enough to persuade me that the policy  if 
recommended  would have been unsuitable  because Mr and Mrs Ms savings tempered the need for 
the cover in question. After all, Mr and Mrs M were taking on a significant  and long term financial  
commitment secured against  their home. The mortgage repayments were  important repayments to 
maintain in the event Mr M suddenly  found himself  out of work. And as the policy would have  helped 
them to do that over a reasonable period of time, while freeing  up their savings to use elsewhere, the 
policy would have been useful.  
Mr M has also provided us with an account statement from another  lender that shows us that he and 
Mrs M had roughly £28,000  available to them only a month  or so ago. But as the statement  isnt from 
2001, I hope  they will understand why it doesnt have any bearing on the outcome of this complaint.
In addition to making sure PPI was suitable, whenever  a business recommended PPI, it also had to 
give the prospective policyholder(s) clear information.  So thats  what  Ive also looked at.
Looking at the PPI application form, Im satisfied that the monthly  benefit of the policy was made  clear 
to Mr and Mrs M as it was recorded not far from where  they signed. Nationwide says it would  have 
provided Mr and Mrs M with a PPI leaflet that set out certain information about the cover  including 
the costs. But it hasnt provided us with anything persuasive to show us that the monthly  cost of the 
policy was shared before  Mr and Mrs M agreed to take it. So I dont know whether  the cost was made 
clear to them. 
Its possible, therefore,  that some of the information given  to Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But, given what the monthly cost was relative to the benefit,  and for the 
same reasons I think the policy would  have  been  suitable had it been recommended, Im not 
persuaded better information about the policy would have led Mr and Mrs M to make a different 
decision and not take the cover.
This means  Im not persuaded - at present - that Nationwide has to pay back the entire cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because  it got a 
high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premiums) - which  it should  have 
told them about that. Because Nationwide  didnt  tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premiums. And I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN1283743