K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold  him a monthly premium  payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with a loan in 1997.
background
Mr L took out a loan and a monthly  premium PPI policy through Nationwide in 1997. The 
loan ended in 2003. The PPI policy cost £11.91 per month. Nationwide no longer has the 
loan agreement Mr L signed to take out the loan and PPI. So its not clear how much  
Mr Ls loan repayment  was each month. Nor, is it clear how much PPI cover he had each  
month, but its likely  that his loan repayments were  covered. He was covered for accident,  
sickness and unemployment. The policy  wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  per 
successful unemployment  claim and for up to 24 months per successful accident or 
sickness claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ls complaint.  Mr L disagrees, so his complaint comes to 
me to decide. Mr L said, in summary, he wasnt given clear information about  the PPI to 
decide whether  to buy it. He says this service  has drawn conclusions in favour  of the firm 
without having  the evidence to back up those conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As some of the evidence  is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to 
have happened   based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. I dont  uphold Mr Ls complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear  that PPI was optional and Mr L had to agree to take it.
Nationwide no longer has a copy of Mr Ls paperwork from the time of sale.  Thats  not 
surprising because businesses often only keep records  for six years.  Mr Ls loan account 
was closed over 15 years  ago. So as well as taking into account  what Mr L remembers,  
Ive also looked  at the sample loan agreement that Nationwide has sent in. It says it was 
using paperwork like this at the time the PPI was sold to Mr L. I havent seen anything  here 
to make me think that Nationwide wasnt following its usual sales process  when it sold the 
policy to Mr L. So, I think its likely that paperwork like this wouldve been  used.  
The credit agreement shows the cost of optional  credit insurance in a separate row. It 
shows the loan repayment with and without PPI. No interest was payable  on the monthly 
premium.  I think it likely that Mr L wouldve  had to sign an agreement like that to take out 
the loan, and the PPI, if he wanted  it. So, on balance, I think  it likely Nationwide made Mr L 
aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it out. I can understand why he may 
not remember that now, given how much time has passed.
From what  Ive seen, and what we know about  Nationwides sales  processes, I dont think 
Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr L. So Nationwide didnt have to check PPI was 
suitable for his needs. But, Nationwide did need to give Mr L clear  information about the 
PPI so he could  decide whether he wanted  to buy it. I cant  see that PPI was 
inappropriate for him. I say this because:
Ref: DRN18264582Mr L was eligible for the PPI  that is, he qualified to be covered by the 
insurance;
Mr L wasnt affected by the main limitations or exclusions on cover. So, I 
dont think having  better information about  these things wouldve changed 
his decision to take out the policy because he couldve benefitted from 
everything it offered;
Mr L said he would have got some sick pay from work,  six months  at full pay and 
six months at half pay. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits  
and for potentially longer than his work benefits covered him for if he was off 
work sick or because  of an accident. So, I still think PPI couldve provided him 
with a useful benefit in his circumstances. It wouldve allowed him to use his 
work benefits to meet  other household expenses at what  might  be a difficult time 
for him financially. It wouldve covered him for unemployment too;
Mr L said he had some  savings, around  3 months worth  of salary. The PPI 
wouldve saved him dipping into these. Having his savings to fall back  on might 
have been important to him, given that he had chosen a loan instead of using 
these savings. So, I cant see that Mr Ls means  made PPI inappropriate for him; 
and
I think it likely that the monthly cost of the PPI wouldve been set out in the 
loan agreement Mr L had to sign. So, I think he wouldve known what  he 
had to pay for it and I think for the reasons  explained, he probably opted 
to take out the cover. Looking at the sample loan agreement, I think  the 
PPI costs  wouldve been separate  from the cost of the loan and referred  to 
as optional.  I cant see that the monthly premium  of £11.91 per month was 
unaffordable.  So, although Mr L couldve been  given  clearer information 
about the costs  of the policy, I dont think Mr Ls lost out because of any 
problems with the sale. I think he wouldve still taken  out the policy.
Ive thought about everything that Mr L has said, but this doesnt change  my decision. 
Ive seen  many cases like Mr Ls, where  not all the paperwork is available.  In these 
circumstances we have to make decision based on what  we think more likely than 
not happened, looking at the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN18264583my decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1826458