K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr G says he couldnt  afford  these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed five short-term loans for Mr G between May 2017 and June 2018. Each 
loan was repayable over three months,  and Mr G topped up his third loan on two occasions. 
This is where he took out further  borrowing under  the same  agreement,  before  paying back  
the initial amount  borrowed.
loan no. applicationprincipal  amount 
(£)no. of repayments  
duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 03/05/2017 200 3 248
2 02/08/2017 250 3 308
3 11/11/2017 300 3 370
3a (top-up) 14/11/2017 125 3 524
3b (top-up) 15/11/2017 75 3 563
4 03/03/2018 600 3 734
5 09/06/2018 550 3 678
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Gs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. She felt the checks QuickQuid carried out on loans 1 and 2 
were proportionate, but thought that the checks carried  out from loan 3 onwards werent. 
And that had QuickQuid  carried  out proportionate  checks, it wouldve seen that loans 3  5, 
including the top-ups  on these loans were unaffordable for Mr G, and would not have  agreed  
to them.
Mr G raised no objections  to the initial view. QuickQuid responded further, disagreeing with 
the assessment.  So the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for Mr Gs last three loan applications, including  the top-ups on loan 3. 
And thought  that had it done so, it wouldve likely  understood these loans would  not have 
been sustainably  affordable for him. These  findings  were set out in some  detail in a view 
letter to the lender. 
QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Mr Gs income  and expenses before funding all these loans. Its said it 
started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June  2014  and all the changes  
were completed by 28 February 2015.
Ref: DRN11505392And that starting  1 March  2015, before Mr G borrowed his first loan, it had implemented an 
affordability review that was consistent with the FCA Handbook and was in place at the time 
it received authorisation by the FCA. And that its assessment was conducted properly and 
individually for each of these  applications.
QuickQuid raised this argument, in both its initial submissions, and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  And I can see that the adjudicator  addressed these points in her 
view.
She said: I note what you've said about  the loans Mr G borrowed from 2015 onwards, 
however our job is to look not only into the rules  and regulations  set by the regulator at the 
time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice and all the available evidence and 
arguments to help us decide whether we think what you have done is right or not. In this 
case I don't  think you were right to provide Mr G with some of the loans he borrowed from 
2015 onwards.
I fully agree with this point. This service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic 
argument directly and through earlier final decisions.  So Im not going  to expand on this point 
any further here, though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my 
decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance  in 
how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Gs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr G borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
Ref: DRN11505393-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
Looking at the specifics of Mr Gs complaint, as loans 1 and 2 no longer  appear to be in 
dispute, my decision will focus  on the remaining loans, loans 3  5, and the top-ups  on these 
loans. 
At the time Mr G took out his third loan, hed been borrowing from QuickQuid for over six 
months. And hed seemed  to have been unable to free himself  of the need to take out 
short-term credit over this period.  Also, the amounts Mr G was borrowing were steadily 
increasing.
Given the size of the repayments due on loan 3 in relation to the monthly income Mr G had 
declared of £1,100, by now, and from this point  on, proportionate checks shouldve included 
QuickQuid building  a full picture of Mr Gs financial  circumstances, and verifying  the 
information it was given before agreeing to lend to him further. So Ive gone onto look at 
what I think QuickQuid wouldve found out, had it carried out proportionate checks. 
Loan 3 was taken out in November 2017, and Mr G borrowed £300, which  was due to repaid 
over three months. The highest amount Mr G needed to repay on this loan in the final month 
was around £370.  And QuickQuid recorded  Mr Gs monthly income at this point at around 
£1,100, and his total monthly  outgoings as £375.  So this wouldve likely led QuickQuid to 
believe that Mr G had a monthly disposable income of around £725.
But had QuickQuid carried out a full review  of Mr Gs circumstances at the time he applied,  it 
wouldve likely seen that his monthly living costs were actually around £330  a month, and 
that he was paying out around £150 a month on his regular credit commitments.
It wouldve  also seen, that in the month prior to applying for loan 3; and in the months leading 
up to this, Mr G was spending almost £600  a month to online gambling/gaming sites.  So if it 
then deducted  this amount from Mr Gs net monthly income, along with his monthly living  
costs and credit commitments, it wouldve seen that his monthly outgoings already exceed 
his income, and that he was in no position to commit to any further credit commitments at 
this time, and as a responsible lender, would not have agreed  to loan 3. 
Loan 3, was topped  up by £125 just 3 days after it was taken out, and then topped up a 
second time, just a day later by a further  £75.  As these top-ups were  both taken within  four 
days of the initial loan 3, I think the information QuickQuid wouldve seen, had it carried out 
proportionate checks, wouldve been the same as when  he took out the original advance. 
Given that I thought  that at the time of taking out loan 3, QuickQuid shouldve seen Mr Gs 
expenditure already exceeded his income, proportionate checks  shouldve therefore again  
shown QuickQuid that the two top-ups on loan 3 were also unaffordable  for him, and 
wouldnt have agreed to these either.
Loan 4 was taken out in March 2018,  a few days after loan 3 was settled, and this time Mr G 
borrowed £600, with a highest  monthly repayment  of £734. QuickQuid had still recorded 
Mr Gs monthly  income at this point  at £1,100, and his monthly outgoings  at £375.
Ref: DRN11505394So from QuickQuid's  own checks, it wouldve concluded that Mr G had a monthly disposable 
income at this point  of around £725. And that this was insufficient  to meet the highest  
monthly repayment on this loan of £734.
But if QuickQuid had also looked further into Mr Gs financial circumstances, it wouldve seen 
that at the time he applied for loan 4, hed spent  over £5,000 the previous month to online 
gambling sites, and was in no way able to maintain further credit  repayments at this time, 
and would not have agreed  to loan 4 either. 
Loan 5 was taken out around two weeks after loan 4 was settled, and Mr Gs financial 
circumstances remained broadly the same  as when he took out loan 4.  He was still 
spending in excess  of his monthly income on online gambling sites, and he was now 
borrowing money from several other short-term lenders.
Mr Gs current  credit commitments at this point, along with his monthly living costs, and the 
money he was spending  on gambling, were well in excess of the amount the was earning. 
So it shouldve been clear to QuickQuid, had it carried out proportionate checks when Mr G 
applied for loan 5, that this loan wouldve also been  unaffordable for him, and as a 
responsible lender, it would not have  agreed  to this loan either. 
In summary,  I think proportionate checks wouldve  shown QuickQuid that loans 3  5, 
including the top-ups  on these loans, wouldve been unaffordable for Mr G, and it wouldnt 
have agreed to them. 
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid should not have agreed to loans 3  5 for 
Mr G, including the top-ups on these  loans. So it needs to refund all of the interest  and 
charges Mr G paid on these loans.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loans it agreed  between November 2017 and 
March 2018, including  the top-ups on these loans 
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  payment  information  about these loans from Mr Gs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
QuickQuid should  also:
remove all interest and charges added to loan 5 agreed in June 2018 from the outset. I 
understand this will leave  an outstanding balance, so QuickQuid can deduct this balance  
from what it now needs to pay Mr G above, if it still owns  the debt.
If, after all of the above has been actioned, anything remains  outstanding,  a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan should  be arranged. 
Ref: DRN11505395my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1150539