K822xcomplaint
Mr B says that a car he acquired via a hire purchase  agreement  with FCA Automotive  
Services UK Ltd (FCA) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
 In September  2013 Mr B acquired  a new car via a three year personal contract purchase 
with FCA who at that time was known as FGA Capital UK. At the end of the three years Mr B 
modified the agreement by extending  it for a further three years to pay off the balance  owing 
on the car.
In October 2016 the car started  to smoke  while  Mr B was driving. Mr B says there  were  no 
warning signs at the time to suggest the car had a fault. On stopping  and checking the 
engine, Mr B discovered a small fire. He was able to put the fire out and called for 
roadside assistance. The car was taken to an approved dealership.
Following tests on the car the dealership told Mr B that it required a new engine and 
provided him with a quote of £27,000  for the work. Mr B asked the dealership to contact 
the manufacturer for their comments as the car was only just outside the warranty period,  
had travelled 49,000 miles and had always been serviced by an approved  garage.
A few days later the dealership contacted  Mr B and said that the manufacturer had 
requested Mr B authorised a cost of £700 for the dealership to strip down the engine 
for further  analysis. Mr B agreed for the work to be undertaken.
The dealership informed Mr B that after stripping  the engine it had found that the fault was 
a leaking injector  and that the costs of repairs had increased to £31,000 as the car required  
new turbo chargers together with new injectors. The dealership went on to say that it had 
reported its findings to the manufacturer who had offered,  as gesture of goodwill, to meet 
70% of the cost of the new engine and turbos and 40% of the costs  of any consumables 
(oil, gaskets  etc.). This meant the full costs of the repairs Mr B wouldve had to cover  
amounted to £15,000. Mr B was told the manufacturer would only keep this offer open for 
48 hours.
Mr B decided to decline the manufacturers  offer. He said the car was worth around £16,000 
so he didnt think the repair costs  were viable. Mr B also said it was unreasonable for him to 
have pay for a fire in the engine that hadnt  been  his fault.
Mr B then arranged for the car to be independently inspected  by an engineer. This took 
some time to arrange so the car wasnt  inspected  until January 2017. The independent  
engineer found  there had been  a catastrophic failure of the engine that now needed 
replacement. And that this failure  had been caused more likely  than not by the 
premature failure  of the fuel injector.
The independent expert said that he couldnt  be sure why the injector  had failed and a 
more detailed analysis  was required,  but it shouldnt have failed at such a low mileage.  The 
independent engineer said he had found  the car to be well maintained.
The independent engineer went on to say that he didnt think it was economical to repair the 
car by fitting a new engine and recommended the fitting of second-hand or re-conditioned 
Ref: DRN15607612one instead. Mr B said that he considered  it was appropriate for the car to be fitted with a 
reconditioned engine with a genuine manufacturers  turbo.
Mr B instructed a firm of solicitors to provide him with advice.  The solicitors wrote  to FCA 
stating it should  meet that the cost of repairing the car with a reconditioned engine which 
was £14,622.47 together  with other  costs incurred  by Mr B such as storage fees, for 
stripping the engine and the independent  engineers inspection.
FCA said that the cause of the fuel injector  failure  was unclear and that there could be two 
causes for it to fail, one being the mechanical soundness of the injector  and the second 
relating to the quality of fuel used. FCA also said that Mr B hadnt had the car serviced at the 
correct intervals and that there wouldve been  signs of the fault developing meaning  the fire 
couldve been prevented.
Mr Bs solicitors  responded to FCA stating  that the car hadnt  been of satisfactory quality or 
fit for purpose.  The solicitors provided  evidence to FCA that Mr B had always only used 
standard fuel and that it appeared only one of the fuel injectors out of the six had failed 
which indicated a mechanical problem rather than an issue with the fuel used.  The 
solicitors also explained  that any delay with the services had been due to the availability of 
the dealership  to carry them out and the car had not shown any sign of a fault prior to the 
fire in the engine.  The solicitors said Mr B required FCA to either  repair or replace the car.
FCA declined to repair or replace the car and informed Mr B that he had the right to raise  a 
complaint with this service.
In March 2018 Mr B requested the independent engineer to prepare an addendum to his 
original report by inspecting the six fuel injectors that had been  removed from the car.
The independent engineer confirmed  that only one of the injectors was faulty. He said on 
the balance of probability, the failure of number 1 injector has caused the damage to the 
engine. And that the failure of the engine would fall well below the standard a reasonable 
person would regard as satisfactory durable. A copy  of this addendum report  was sent to 
FCA and Mr Bs solicitors said that a further 21 days was being  provided for the car to be 
repaired or replaced and for Mr Bs other expenses to be paid which included the cost of 
renting another car. If the car was not repaired  or not repaired satisfactorily  then Mr B would  
exercise his right to reject  the car.
FCA didnt repair or replace the car and so Mr B complained to this service.  Our 
investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He said that hed relied 
on the independent engineers reports and had been persuaded that the fault wouldve 
been present  or developing at the point of sale. However he didnt think that repair  or 
replacement were now feasible due to the length  of time that had passed since  the fire in 
the engine.
The investigator said that Mr B should now be able to reject  the car and all the monthly 
payments made under the hire purchase agreement since  the engine fire should  be 
reimbursed to Mr B together  with the storage fees,  any costs incurred that were 
associated with diagnosing  the fault and any towing fees.
The investigator  said Mr B shouldnt  be reimbursed for hiring another car as transport 
costs would always have  been incurred. He also didnt  think  Mr Bs solicitors costs  should 
be re- paid as these  werent a cost that couldve been reasonably foreseen by FCA.
Ref: DRN15607613FCA disagreed with our investigators view. It said that due to Mr Bs delay in bringing  his 
complaint to it this had meant the options it could provide to assist  him were very different 
from what they couldve been. This 18 month  delay rendered any further inspection  by 
FCA as likely to be inconclusive. It had also prevented FCA from being able to explore any 
lower cost resolutions. FCA also said that car would now have depreciated further in value.
FCA queried the cost of the independent  expert and whether the addendum report  (and 
additional cost) had been  necessary.  Finally it disputed that the fault had been either 
present or developing at the point of sale.
Mr B agreed  with the majority of the investigators view but said the hire costs  of another 
car should be repaid as they arose  directly  from the fault with the car as should  his legal 
fees.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me. I issued an initial decision 
along the following lines. Mr B had acquired  the car as new in 2013 via a three  year hire 
purchase agreement.  When  the agreement came to an end there was an outstanding 
balloon payment due that represented the value of the car at that time. Mr B wished to keep 
the car so took out the second hire purchase  agreement to cover this amount. This 
agreement was headed Agreement modifying a Credit Agreement regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Under  these types of agreements the car was supplied  by 
credit provider, in this case FCA, and so it was FCA who was responsible if there  was a 
complaint about  the quality of the car. So FCA had again supplied  the car to Mr B under the 
second agreement.
FCA said that it was unfair there had been such a long delay  in Mr B bringing his 
complaint about  the car to it. And that this delay meant that any resolution was now 
more detrimental  to FCA than it wouldve been if Mr B had brought  the complaint 
straight away after the fire had happened.
Mr B said he wasnt aware until he took legal advice that FCA could be liable, he thought it 
was the manufacturer who wouldve had to fix the car so had contacted them first. I didnt 
think Mr B had acted unreasonably when hed asked the dealership  to contact the 
manufacturer when  the fault with the engine was first found. The manufacturer  was also 
willing to make a gesture of goodwill towards  the costs of the repairs. Had this gesture been 
considered fair by Mr B the matter wouldve been resolved however as it wasnt Mr B 
looked at other  ways to take his complaint forward.
Mr Bs next decision was to use an independent  engineer  to inspect the car. FCA said this 
engineer was expensive  and that two reports were  unnecessary. It also said that had Mr B 
got in touch  then it wouldve arranged this. Again I didnt  think it was unreasonable  for Mr 
B to explore  the reasons  why the cars engine had suffered such a catastrophic failure, 
especially at the cars age and mileage. And while I appreciated the costs  of this 
independent engineer  may have been more than was usually charged  Id seen his list of 
credentials and I was satisfied he was qualified to have inspected  the car. I didnt think it 
was likely Mr B wouldve  been  aware that these  costs would be variable. The reports  
provided by this engineer were full and clear and explained why the engineer  had reached 
the conclusions that he had. Id also seen nothing that would  suggest this engineer wasnt  
independent to Mr B and so he was providing  his expert  opinion  on the cause of the 
engines failure.
Ref: DRN15607614It wasnt disputed that the cars engine suffered  fire damage and required replacing. Id 
also seen that it wasnt disputed the fire was caused by a fuel injector. This fault was found 
by the dealerships engineers who had inspected  the engine shortly after the fire and the 
independent engineer agreed with their findings.  The issue  for me to resolve was whether 
the fault with the fuel injector  was either present or developing at the point of sale of the 
car and, if so, did this make the car of unsatisfactory quality.
The independent engineer has looked  and commented on the condition of the car. As part 
of his assessment  the engineer also saw the service  log. He said that he found  the car to be 
well maintained.  Id seen no evidence that would  suggest his opinion wasnt valid.  Mr B 
had explained  that the delays in the servicing  were due to the availability of the garage and 
as they didnt appear to be excessive I couldnt  reasonably say Mr B had neglected  to 
satisfactorily maintain  the car.
In the independent engineers first report he said Why the injector  has failed is not clear 
but he then went  on to explain  why, in his opinion, a car of this age and mileage shouldnt 
have failed. He said the physical evidence strongly  supports the failure of No1 fuel injector 
which has failed prematurely and that the fuel injector, engine or one of its components 
was not fit for purpose for which goods of this kind are commonly supplied and it was not 
free from minor defect.
FCA said that there were two main reasons for an injector to fail and these were mechanical 
soundness or the type of fuel used. And in an email sent in September  2017  it told Mr B it 
needed to be confirmed  that the reason for the failure was directly attributed  to the 
structure of the injector . Mr B asked  his independent engineer  to inspect the injectors and 
write an addendum. This was entirely reasonable given that FCA had raised two possible 
but very different causes of the injectors  failure and werent accepting the car had an 
inherent mechanical fault.
This second inspection  confirmed  that only one of the six injectors was faulty making it 
more likely than not that it wasnt the use of poor fuel that had resulted in the failure. FCA 
said the independent engineer had provided  an opinion  only saying the failure  could have 
been the result of a faulty component. But the test I must apply when making a decision 
wasnt that I needed concrete proof of what happened. I needed  to be satisfied that it was 
the most  likely thing to have happened. So looking at the evidence I was satisfied that it 
was more likely than not that this cars  engine  had a faulty injector and the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality from the point  of sale.
FCA has also said that a fault with an injector  wouldve had obvious symptoms and it 
wouldve been evident in the weeks before  the engine fire that there was a problem which    
Mr B mustve ignored. It said that as Mr B didnt adhere to the service guidelines it was 
reasonable to surmise  that he had turned a blind  eye to developing symptoms.
Mr B rejected FCAs view.  He said the car drove quite normally  until the fire in the engine  
happened. He said he was experienced with cars and wouldve been alert to any 
problems developing  with the car. As already set out above  I was satisfied from the 
evidence that    Mr B hadnt neglect the car, the delays in the servicing werent such  that 
theyd caused  the independent  engineer any concern. His view was that the car had been  
serviced in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations.
I also thought that, as Mr B had decided  to keep the car, it was in his interests to take care 
of it. I didnt think it was likely that he wouldve just ignored an issue with the engine.  Taking  
Ref: DRN15607615into account his knowledge of cars I was satisfied that if the car had displayed any signs of 
a problem with the engine  he wouldve sought  assistance from a garage.  It wasnt in his 
interests to ignore an issue.
So I intended to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Taking  into account the time that had passed and 
that the car hasnt been driven for 18 months I agreed with the investigator that the fairest 
solution was for the agreement to end with nothing further owed and for Mr B to return the 
car to FCA.
FCA said that the car wouldve depreciated further  over the past 18 months but I didnt 
agree that it would be fair to penalise Mr B over that. As Id already set out I didnt think  Mr 
B had unduly delayed  his complaint. Also looking at the stance taken by FCA I didnt think  it 
was likely this wouldve been resolved  in any event.
I also thought that that as this second agreement had modified the first one taken out in 
2013 that I could reasonably treat the two agreements  as one. FCA has also said that the 
car was bought in 2013 and so the Consumer Rights Act 2015  didnt  apply. So FCA has 
also taken the view that there  was one credit agreement in place for the car which  was 
taken out in 2013 and extended in 2016.  This meant  that if Mr B was entitled  to reject the 
car then Mr B should  be reimbursed his original deposit. I thought this was fair as 
otherwise his deposit wouldve been lost when the car was returned. Looking at the deposit 
I thought this would  be a sizeable loss for Mr B. I intended to require FCA to reimburse  Mr 
B the sum of £10,850 together with interest which represented the deposit hed paid of 
£7350 cash together  with a part exchange  valued  at £3500.
I agreed with our investigator that Mr B should  be reimbursed the storage  costs of the 
vehicle together  with the costs he had incurred with the diagnostics  of the cars fault.  Mr B 
hadnt been able to use the car since the fire in the engine in October 2016 and so any 
monthly payments  made under the hire purchase agreement from this date should be 
repaid.
Mr B also said that FCA should repay him the hire costs for the replacement  cars hed had 
to arrange  plus his legal costs. Looking at the cost of hiring an alternative vehicle Id taken 
into account that Mr B would always have had travel costs to pay even if this fire hadnt  
happened. Mr B said the hire costs  had been higher than the monthly  repayments  but I 
also thought it was fair I took into account  that the cost of driving  wouldve  been higher 
than just the monthly hire purchase  repayments,  there wouldve been  wear and tear on the 
car with maintenance issues and over the past two years insurance  and road tax too. So I 
didnt think it was reasonable to require FCA to pay either the full rental costs or the 
difference between  the hire costs and the hire purchase costs.  By requiring FCA to 
reimburse the hire purchase payments Mr B hadnt  had to pay out twice for travel and I 
thought that was a fair resolution.
Our service is free to consumers and we provide an informal alternative to going  to court  to 
resolve disputes. It was only in very exceptional  cases that we would ask a business  to 
cover costs of using  an expert to help prepare  a case. In this matter I didnt think  Mr B 
needed to instruct  solicitors to bring the case to us as we would always decide on the facts  
of each case  and not in the way it was presented. This case  wasnt  unusual or more  
complex than other cases weve dealt  with and so it was Mr Bs choice to seek legal 
representation. It wasnt fair or reasonable for me to require FCA to cover  these  legal 
costs.
Ref: DRN15607616Mr B has agreed with my initial view and FCA says that although it disagrees Mr B should 
be repaid his deposit it didnt wish to contest the view and outcome I had reached.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view. I appreciate  FCA didnt  agree with the repayment of the deposit  
but it has decided  it doesnt wish to argue against my provisional decision. So I still think that 
there was one agreement in place for the car and not two. And as the car had an inherent 
fault Mr B is entitled to now reject it and have his deposit returned.
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part and ask FCA to end the agreement with nothing 
further to pay, to collect the car, show the agreement as settled, refund Mr B his £10,850 
deposit with interest,  refund Mr B any storage  costs  with interest,  refund Mr B the cost of the 
two independent engineer  reports with interest, refund Mr B the dealership  costs  for 
removing and stripping the engine to diagnose the cause of the fire with interest and to 
refund Mr Bs monthly  payments since October 2016 with interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above  I am upholding Mr Bs complaint in part. I ask FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd to do the following:
 End the agreement with nothing further  owed by Mr B.
 Allow Mr B to reject the car.
 Collect the car at a convenient time for Mr B and at no cost to him (if not 
already done so).
 Show the agreement  as settled on Mr Bs credit file and remove any 
adverse information  related to this agreement.
 Refund Mr Bs deposit of £10,850  together  with interest at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
 Refund the costs  of removing the car to private storage of £140  together  with 
interest at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
 Refund the costs of £920.78 and £506.96  for the two independent engineers  
reports together with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
 Refund the costs  of £1,030.50 for the dealership initially  removing and 
stripping the engine  to diagnose  the cause  of the fire together with interest at 
the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
 Refund any monthly premiums paid by Mr B after October 2016 together  with 
interest at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ref: DRN15607617Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1560761