K820x#14complaint
Mrs H, via her representative, has complained to us that First National Bank Plc 
(First National) mis-sold her a single premium payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
when she took out a loan for home improvements in or around February 2003. 
background
Our adjudicator told Mrs H that from what shed seen it wasnt  First National that was 
responsible for the sale of the PPI  instead it was another business that had sold it to her. 
So in principle the complaint would need to be set up against that other  business. Our 
adjudicator was unable to trace up-to-date contact details for the other  business.  Because  
the PPI was sold before 14 January 2005, when the sale of insurance  became a regulated 
activity, she told Mrs H that even if the other business could be traced,  it was unlikely that 
wed have power  to consider this complaint. This was because First National wasnt  
responsible for the sale, and the other  business  wasnt regulated to sell PPI at the time. 
In my provisional decision dated  7 December 2018  I explained why I didnt think  
First National  was responsible selling Mrs H the PPI. I set out an extract below:
Neither Mrs H nor First National has been able to provide me with any of the PPI sale 
paperwork. Thats not surprising after so many  years. 
I have seen that First National wrote to Mrs H after shed taken out her loan and bought  the 
PPI cover.  In that letter Ive noticed that it refers to having made payment of the money  shed 
borrowed from it as the lender  to pay for the home improvements and the PPI to the other 
business involved in the sale. First National also sent us a screenshot  showing a record  of 
the sale being recorded on its customer system. On it, the other business is described as 
acting as the broker in the sale. That makes sense, given that First National was the lender 
providing the finance that was then paid to the business acting as the broker. 
I also see that Mrs H recalled that a representative from the other business had been to see 
her at her home and arranged the loan for the home  improvements. I think its likely that 
Mrs H agreed  to buy the PPI at the same  time,  especially  given that it was a single premium 
policy, which meant that the PPI premium would form part of the loan. 
All of this means  that I dont currently  consider  it likely that First National is responsible for 
the sale of the PPI to Mrs H.
 
developments
Mrs Hs representative confirmed receipt of my provisional decision but had nothing  further  
to add. 
First National  has not responded to my provisional  decision  with any further evidence or 
information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12624682We can only look into a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case 
handling rules.  Our case handing rules are found  in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules of 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  Handbook (available online).
Given that neither  party  has provided  me with any additional evidence  or information for me 
to consider on the question of whether First National is responsible for selling Mrs H the PPI, 
my decision  remains that it isnt responsible for the sale.  And it follows that First National  
cant be held responsible for a potential mis-sale of the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that 
First National  Bank  Plc isnt responsible for the sale of PPI to Mrs H and so I dont uphold 
this complaint against it.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1262468