K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a secured 
loan in 2000. Mr and Mrs S say Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold them the PPI. 
The loan was taken  out in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr S.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill set out he reasons for my decision below.
Mr and Mrs S say that if theyd known  they could decline the PPI, then they would  have  
they say that they werent given a choice in opting out of the policy.  But I think BoS made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have  to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago. Ill explain 
why.
BoS has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss loan agreement  on this I can see that the PPI 
is clearly presented as optional, and has been  selected. Mr and Mrs S have then signed the 
agreement, confirming their choices. Mr and Mrs Ss representative has said that as the PPI 
was selected on the paperwork electronically, before  they signed, this means  that they 
werent able to opt out. But I disagree. I think that the paperwork shows  that a discussion 
around PPI took place   had it been  automatically included, I think that Mr and Mrs S 
wouldve questioned  why when they looked  over their paperwork before signing.  
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr S wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said - including  what they have said about 
having savings  they couldve used to make their repayments  but the PPI couldve 
protected these  savings  for other expenses. So this point  doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN13814882Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1381488