K822xcomplaint
Mr S and Miss D have complained about  the way in which  Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited has dealt with their motor  insurance  claim.
background 
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint.
The following  represents  excerpts from my provisional decision. It outlines the background to 
this complaint and my provisional findings,  and forms part of this final decision:
Mr S and Miss Ds car was involved in an accident. After they made their claim, Advantage 
initially said that their car was beyond economical  repair, and that they would therefore be 
paid its market value  at the time of the accident. However, Advantage then changed its 
position on the claim, concluding that there  was damage to the cars engine that pre-existed 
the accident. It offered Mr S and Miss D a sum of £1,486.73 to settle the claim,  which  it 
stated related to the cost of repairing the damage to the car caused by the accident  itself.
Advantage acknowledged that it had failed to keep Mr S and Miss D up to date with the 
progress of their insurance claim. However,  it considered it had acted fairly when concluding 
that engine damage its engineer had found when inspecting the vehicle was not related to 
the accident claimed for. For its failures  to keep Mr S and Miss D informed about the claims 
progress, Advantage  offered them £175  compensation.
Mr S and Miss D were  also unhappy about  the way in which  Advantage had handled the 
third party claim  made against them, after they received a County Court Claims Form. 
Advantage accepted that, whilst it had paid part of the third party claim, it had failed to 
acknowledge the request  for an outstanding sum that was due, leading to Mr S and Miss D 
being sent the court forms requesting this payment. Mr S and Miss D were also unhappy  
with the delay of approximately six weeks collecting the courtesy car theyd been provided 
with by Advantage.
Advantage confirmed  that it had settled the third party claim in full, but it offered Mr S and 
Miss D a further £100 to reflect the service  they had experienced, both in respect of the court  
forms sent to them,  and the delay  collecting the courtesy car.
Mr S and Miss D brought a complaint to this service about Advantages decision to only pay 
them £1,486.73, rather than the write off market value. They also complained about the 
overall poor service they said they had received, and the fact that theyd been  sent court 
letters from the third party.
Our investigator initially proposed that Advantage  should  pay Mr S and Miss D the write off 
value for the vehicle,  because when first considering the claim it had said that it would. He 
also recommended  a further £150  compensation be paid to reflect the distress caused to Mr 
S and Miss D when  they received letters from the third party solicitor demanding payment, 
and due to the delays  picking up the courtesy  car.
Advantage disagreed with these findings. Having considered its response, our investigator  
proposed that Advantage should pay for 50% of the cost of the damaged  engine.  He still 
considered the £150 further  compensation was reasonable.
Ref: DRN14836302Mr S and Miss D confirmed that they accepted the investigators revised findings. Mr S 
highlighted that Advantage  had confirmed it would pay the write off value of the car both in 
written correspondence  and during a telephone call.
Advantage responded that although  the repairer indicated that the car was a total loss, it was 
waiting for the results  of diagnostic tests. It accepted  that it had provided  unclear information 
about this, but did not agree that it should  pay for 50% of the engine  cost. Advantage 
remained of the opinion that the compensation it had already offered in respect of poor 
service was fair.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
At outset I note that in recent correspondence, Advantage has questioned  whether this 
service has jurisdiction to consider a complaint about the claim settlement offered of 
£1,486.73. It has suggested  that no complaint has been  registered relating to the settlement 
amount. However  in their complaint form, Mr S and Miss D confirmed their dissatisfaction  
with Advantages  decision  not to offer them the write off value of their car, after it had initially 
said that it would.
In one of the two final response letters that Advantage  wrote,  it acknowledged  that Mr S and 
Miss D were  unhappy with this, and it offered compensation for its service in this regard. In 
making a settlement for the insurance  claim, Advantage is carrying  out a regulated activity. 
Consequently, my view is that this service has jurisdiction to consider this aspect of the 
complaint, and that Advantage  has had an opportunity to respond to this.
For ease of reference, I have used sub headings  to assess  the issues raised  by Mr S and 
Miss D in this complaint.
- Is the insurance settlement offer of £1,486.73  fair?
In the course  of dealing with Mr S and Miss Ds claim, Advantage wrote to them stating we 
will be covering the value of your car regardless of the situation with the engine.  I have also 
listened to a call between an Advantage representative and Mr S. In that call, Advantage told 
Mr S that it would be paying for the total loss of the car. In my view, Advantage did initially 
make it clear  to Mr S and Miss D that they would be receiving the market value/write off 
value of the car.
However, Advantage then received an engineers  report. It had carried out a diagnostic 
check due to the cars lack of power. The engineer  reported that there were various  faults 
on [the] turbo circuit and particle  filter circuit. He concluded that the car needed the turbo, 
pipes and particle filter replaced, and that a new engine might be required after this work 
was carried out. He also stated that this damage  was pre-existing  and so it was not caused 
by the accident that had been  claimed for. Based on the weight of evidence provided, my 
view is that it was reasonable for Advantage to conclude that the engine damage was not 
the result  of the car accident. Therefore, I do not consider it reasonable to require Advantage 
to cover any of the cost of repairing the engine  related damage.
The policy terms state that in the event of accident damage, Advantage has the option to 
amongst other things,  pay for any necessary repairs or pay the market value of the car 
Ref: DRN14836303immediately before the accident occurred. Where  the cost of repair  for the accident damage  
is uneconomical, the car is declared a total loss or a write off.
Advantage has considered the cost of repairing the accident damage only (not the cost for 
the work  on the engine). I consider that it is reasonable for it to look at the cost of this 
damage alone. Having done  so, Advantage has offered Mr S and Miss D the cost of repair  
for the accident  damage. In my view,  taking into account the engine damage that pre-existed 
the accident, it is reasonable for Advantage to have offered  to settle the claim on this basis.
However, as stated above, my view is that Mr S and Miss D were  clearly told that they would 
be receiving the write off value of the car when  the claim  was first dealt with. I consider that 
this represented  a mistake on Advantages part, but it would not be reasonable to require 
Advantage to now settle the claim by paying a write off value. Instead, by misinforming Mr S 
and Miss D about the basis for settlement, Advantage has caused them a loss of 
expectation. Later in this decision  I consider  how Mr S and Miss D should  be compensated 
for this.
In terms of the settlement offer of £1,486.73, according to its engineers report,  the estimated 
cost of repairing  the accident damage was £2,000.08. Mr S and Miss D have a policy excess 
of £325, which would  need  to be deducted from the cash settlement they receive. That 
would result in a settlement of £1,675.08, which is £188.35 higher than the settlement sum 
offered.
I have asked Advantage to explain how the settlement  figure has been calculated. It has 
mentioned the cost of a diagnostic test, but I cannot see from the figures supplied  the reason 
for the difference  of £188.35 noted above. On balance, it seems reasonable that in settling 
the claim with a cash payment, Advantage should  pay Mr S and Miss D a settlement of 
£1,675.08 (taking  into account the policy excess), to cover the cost of repairing the accident  
damage.
I understand that Mr S and Miss D have already been paid the settlement sum offered by 
Advantage of £1,486.73. My current view therefore is that Advantage should now pay them 
an additional  £188.35, together with interest.
- Has Advantages handling of the claim caused  Mr S and Miss D unnecessary  distress?
Mr S and Miss D have highlighted that during the course of pursuing their insurance claim, 
they had to regularly prompt Advantage to keep them updated with its progress. In addition, 
they have been contacted directly by the third party solicitors with demands for payment 
relating to the accident, and have  been  threatened with court  action. Mr S and Miss D also 
experienced delays with the courtesy  car being picked up  and I have explained  above  that 
I consider Advantage misinformed them when  it told them they would be receiving a 
payment for the write off value of their car.
Prior to their complaint being considered  by this service, Mr S and Miss D were  offered 
compensation of £175 and £100 by Advantage to reflect its poor handling  of their claim. Our 
investigator proposed  that they be paid a further £150 compensation (so that they would 
receive a total compensation amount of £425).
It seems  to me that the handing of this claim by Advantage has caused Mr S and Miss D 
significant unnecessary distress.  They understood that they would be receiving the write  off 
value of their car, only to be told at a later date that this was not going to be the case.  The 
Ref: DRN14836304correspondence they received from the third party  solicitors is likely to have caused  them  
genuine concern.  Advantage seems  to have accepted that this should not have happened,  
and it has acknowledged  that there was a lack of contact, with the majority being instigated 
by Mr S and Miss D. It has confirmed that the delay in collecting the courtesy  car was an 
oversight.
Overall, taking into account the circumstances of this case, and awards made  on similar 
cases, I consider  it reasonable that Advantage should pay Mr S and Miss D a total 
compensation amount of £425  (including the sums  Advantage has already offered) to reflect  
the unnecessary  difficulties the handling of the claim has caused  them. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr S and Miss D confirmed that they were  happy  with the outcome detailed in my provisional  
findings.
Advantage did not provide  any further  submissions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the responses to my provisional decision, I do not consider  that I have reason to 
alter the conclusions that I outlined in that decision.
I am therefore awarding the sums that I previously  proposed to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to carry out the following actions:-
Pay Mr S and Miss D an additional  settlement amount for the claim of £188.35 (on 
the basis that £1,486.73 has already been paid to them).
To this figure must be added simple  interest* at the rate of 8% per year from the date 
of loss to the date of payment.
Ref: DRN14836305Pay Mr S and Miss D £150  (on the basis that it has already paid them £275) to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience  the handling of the claim caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
John Swain
Ombudsman
*If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr S and Miss D how much its taken  off. It should 
also give Mr S and Miss D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN1483630