K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
background 
In January 2018 Mr E was supplied with a second  hand car and entered  into a conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was approximately  4 years 
old and had covered approximately 60,000 miles.
In March 2018 Mr E experienced issues with the car including:
Air conditioning not working
Car shuddering when braking
Handbrake not working
Stop/start system  not working
Faulty battery
Some of the issues  were repaired under warranty. But Mr E continued to experience  
problems and in May 2018 he reported  the following issues to Moneybarn:
Car shuddering when braking
Stop/start system  not working
Faulty battery
Rear windscreen washer  not working
New DPF filter required
Moneybarn rejected the complaint. It said the issues were wear  and tear items rather  than 
faults which were present  or developing at the point of supply. Mr E wasnt  happy  with 
Moneybarns response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that although the car had passed an MOT  
and had undergone a pre sale inspection before the agreement started, the pre sale 
inspection had listed a number of items which werent checked, some of which  related to the 
issues which Mr E had complained about.  The investigator concluded that the faults  with the 
car were more likely  than not to have been present  or developing at the point of supply and 
recommended that the agreement was unwound.
Moneybarn didnt agree.  It said the faults  would have been noted  in the MOT  test if they 
existed at the point of supply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn  has supplied the car under  a conditional sale agreement  theres an 
implied term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Vehicles are of satisfactory quality 
if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage of the vehicle 
and the price paid.  I would expect a second  hand  car to have a degree  of wear and tear. So 
in order to uphold  this complaint I would need  to be satisfied that the car was not of 
Ref: DRN13515242satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect rather  than general wear  
and tear.
Mr E and Moneybarn disagree  about  whether the car had faults at the point of supply.  In 
order to reach a conclusion I need  to look at all of the available evidence and determine on 
the balance of probabilities whether the car was of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply.
Mr E experienced issues with the car approximately 2 months after the point of supply. 
Some of the issues  were covered by the warranty and were repaired.  However,  despite  the 
repairs (which resolved the issues with the air conditioning  and the handbrake) Mr E 
continued to have problems with the brakes, the battery and the stop/start system.
Im satisfied that Mr E reported these issues to Moneybarn  within  6 months  of the agreement  
starting. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 its the responsibility of the seller to prove  that 
the faults werent present  or developing at the point of supply where  the faults present 
themselves within  the first 6 months.
Im not persuaded that Moneybarn had any evidential basis to say that the problem with the 
stop/start system was due to the battery not being charged enough and was therefore  a 
wear and tear issue. Given that the car had already been returned once for repairs with 
issues relating to the battery and the stop/start system (amongst other issues) and given the 
persistent nature of these problems, I think that Moneybarn should have arranged  for an 
independent inspection to comment on whether the faults were present or developing at the 
point of supply.
I can see that the car was inspected before the agreement  started. Moneybarn has said that 
this inspection is evidence  that the car was likely  to have  been fit for purpose and of 
satisfactory quality at the time. However,  I can see from the inspection  report that a number 
of items werent checked. These include  items relating to the brakes,  the exhaust emissions 
and the technical system (including  the DPF). Mr E has reported issues  with (amongst other 
things) the brakes and the DPF. Its clear from the inspection report that these items  werent  
checked, so Im not persuaded that the inspection report  is good evidence that the brakes  
and DPF were of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply.
Moneybarn has said that the faults  would have been  noted on the MOT if they were present 
at the point of supply.  I can see that the car passed an MOT  test on 9 January 2018 just 
before the agreement  started. No issues were noted  on the MOT.
Ive thought about whether the items  complained  about by Mr E would have been checked  
as part of the MOT  test. In relation to the battery this is usually  checked  to make sure it is 
secure and not leaking  electrolyte. However, the MOT test doesnt test the functionality  of 
the battery.
In relation to brakes, the MOT test checks the overall condition  of the brakes,  pedals  and 
levers. A brake performance test is carried out to test brake  efficiency. In relation to the DPF, 
all MOT tests now include specific checks to see whether the car emits visible  smoke  of any 
colour. These DPF checks were  introduced  in May 2018, which  is after the MOT on Mr Es 
car was carried out.
Whilst Im satisfied  that the MOT  test carried out in January 2018 would have identified any 
faults with the brakes on Mr Es car, Im  not  persuaded that it would have identified faults 
with the battery, the stop/start system  or the DPF.
Ref: DRN13515243Based on the available evidence I think its more likely than not that the faults with the 
battery, the stop/start system and the DPF were  present or developing at the point of supply. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think these items  were checked as part of the pre sale 
inspection or as part of the MOT test.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Moneybarn No 1 Limited should:
Unwind the conditional sale agreement
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr E.
Refund any deposit paid by Mr E together with 8% simple  interest  per year from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
Refund 50% of the payments made  by Mr E. 
Remove any entries relating to the conditional sale agreement  from Mr Es credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1351524