K822xcomplaint
This complaint concerns  ERGO Reiseversicherung AGs, trading as ERV, handling of a claim 
against a  travel insurance policy. 
Since making the complaint,  Mr H has passed  away and Mrs H no longer has the capacity  to 
deal with her own affairs.  Mr Hs son, Mr H1, was  helping Mr and Mrs H bring their 
complaint and has now provided an office  copy of the lasting power of attorney relating to 
Mrs H and a grant of probate in relation to the estate of Mr H.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of
23 September 2019, an extract  of which is attached  and forms part of this final decision.  So, 
I wont repeat that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that ERV hadnt treated Mr and Mrs H 
fairly in refusing part of their claim on the basis that the medical emergency took place in the 
UK. I set out what I intended to direct  ERV to do to put matters right.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr H1 accepted  my provisional  decision and gave us information and documentation about  
the changes in circumstance since the complaint  was made. ERV also accepted  the 
provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr H1 nor ERV has provided me with anything  further  on the complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  So, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that ERV treated Mr and Mrs H fairly in refusing part 
of their claim  on the basis that the medical  emergency took place in the UK. To put matters 
right, I now require ERV to deal with the claim under  the remaining  terms of the policy,  pay 
interest on any settlement  from the date of the claim and pay compensation of £200. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out in my provisional  decision and above, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.  I now direct  ERGO  Reiseversicherung  AG to:
Deal with the claim  under the remaining terms of the policy.
Pay interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date of the 
claim to the date it makes the payment*.
Pay compensation of £200 in relation to distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN12264972*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG to take off tax from this 
interest. ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG must  give Mr H1 a certificate  showing how much 
tax its taken  off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12264973extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG, trading as ERV, declined the major part of 
their claim against their travel insurance policy. Mr Hs son, Mr H1, is helping Mr and Mrs H bring their 
complaint.
background
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs H bought an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy. They live in 
England. Whilst on a short  trip to Guernsey in October 2018,  Mrs H had a brain  haemorrhage.  She 
received emergency and in-patient care in Guernsey.  In early November 2018, Mrs H was repatriated 
by air ambulance to a hospital in the UK.
In November  2018, Mr H made a claim  against their policy.  ERV said that as the medical  emergency 
was within the UK  as defined by the policy - the policy limit of £1,000 applies for any medical and 
repatriation costs. Mr H complained  and said that Guernsey is not in the UK, so ERV should settle 
their claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said:
Guernsey isnt part of the UK.
The policy  definition of the UK includes  the Channel  Islands (of which  Guernsey is part).
The UK doesnt have reciprocal  arrangements  with Guernsey in relation to health care.
Mr and Mrs H would  have expected  their policy  to provide  necessary benefits whilst on 
holiday.
Whilst an insurer is free to write  its own terms, its not fair to define the UK as 
including the Channel Islands (Guernsey) for the purposes  of this claim.
So, ERV has acted  unfairly and should deal with Mr and Mrs Hs claim,  subjecting to
the remaining terms of the policy.
Mr H1 responded on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf and said that they agreed with the adjudicators view.  
ERV didnt  agree with the investigator. It said:
It included the Channel  Islands in the definition of the UK in the same way that it 
includes countries such as Egypt and Morocco in its definition of Europe.
The definition  of the UK in the British  Nationality  Act 1981  includes the UK and
Islands.
In any event,  it has defined  the UK in the terms of the policy.
The investigator responded  to say that the Act to which  ERV referred relates  to nationality  and 
citizenship but the policy only refers to residency, so the issue  is more about territory than 
nationality. He said that Mr and Mrs H hadnt been  treated fairly, as Guernsey doesnt have 
arrangements with the UK for health care services.
Ref: DRN12264974As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about what  happened. Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt 
was a very worrying  time into a short narrative. That reflects our service  that, wherever possible, aims  
to be informal. But Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened.
Its clear and quite  understandable  that Mr H in particular has very strong feelings  about  this matter. 
Mr H1, on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf, has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which 
I have read and considered.  However, I trust that they will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I 
focus on what  I consider the central  issue, which is whether ERV treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly in 
declining the major part of their claim for the reason  it set out in its final response to Mr and Mrs H of 
14 December 2018.
My understanding is that ERV didnt give Mr and Mrs H advice about the suitability  of the policy. 
So, it was for Mr and Mrs H to satisfy themselves that the policy met their needs.
The policy includes the following: 
Section  3a
Emergency Medical & Repatriation Expenses
[]
What is covere d:
We will pay up to £5,000,000 for Basic cover and £10,000,000 for Comprehensive cover for each 
insured person who suffers sudden and unforeseen bodily injury,  or illness , or who dies during a 
trip outside your home  county for the following: []
What is covered when travelling within the United Kingdom :
When you have purchased  an annual  multi-trip  policy and you are travelling  solely within the 
United Kingdom during your trip of 2 nights or more in pre-booked accommodation we will pay 
up to £1,000 for: []
 What is not covered under Section 3a:
1.  any medical  costs  within the United Kingdom.
ERV defines United Kingdom  elsewhere in the policy as England, Scotland, Wales,  
Northern Ireland,  Isle of Man and the Channel Islands.
Guernsey is, of course, one of the Channel Islands. The Channel Islands are not, in fact, part of the 
United Kingdom. The Channel Islands are self-governing British Crown dependencies.  But ERV can 
define United Kingdom  in any way it likes. It says that it also includes non-European countries in 
its definition of Europe. Its entitled  to do that.
Ref: DRN12264975But in the particular circumstances of this case, I think that if ERV wished to move away from the 
normal, natural  meaning of the United  Kingdom as England, Scotland, Wales  and Northern Ireland, it 
should have brought that to the attention of Mr and Mrs H when they bought the policy. Thats  
because:
Mr and Mrs H could  reasonably expect the United Kingdom to be only England, Scotland, 
Wales and Norther Ireland, in accordance with the normal, natural  meaning of that phrase.
Mr and Mrs H could  reasonably expect to have substantial cover for emergency 
medical and repatriation  expenses when they travelled outside those countries.
Its particularly important  for Mr and Mrs H to know whether  they are covered for trips to 
Guernsey, as they visit family there and theres no reciprocal health agreements  in place, 
so they need to have  medical insurance  or travel insurance that covers medical  
emergencies.
ERV isnt consistent in its use of its own definition  of United Kingdom . For example,  under 
the heading Health Declaration  it says;
In order to be eligible  for cover under this policy you must also be:
a resident of the United Kingdom , Channel Islands, or Isle of Man
If ERV had made it clear to Mr and Mrs H that its definition of United Kingdom  included 
Guernsey, Mr and Mrs H could decide  for themselves whether the policy met their needs.  Mr and 
Mrs H lost the opportunity to do that. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H could have found suitable 
cover for their trip to Guernsey.
I dont think that ERV treated Mr and Mrs H fairly  here in refusing part of their claim on the basis 
that the medical  emergency  took place  in the UK. I intend to direct ERV to deal with Mr and Mrs 
Hs claim under the remaining terms of the policy. As Mr and Mrs H have  been denied the use of 
the money theyve already paid out themselves, or should have received under the remaining 
terms of the policy, ERV should also pay interest  on any settlement, from the date of the claim.
ERVs refusal of the major part of Mr and Mrs Hs claim  caused them distress and 
inconvenience at an already very stressful time. I think that fair compensation for that is £200.  
my provisional  decision 
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I intend to direct 
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG to: 
Deal with Mr and Mrs Hs claim  under the remaining  terms of the policy. 
Pay interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date of the 
claim to the date it makes the payment*. 
Pay Mr and Mrs H compensation  of £200 in relation  to their distress and 
inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to take off tax from this interest. 
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off, if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN1226497