K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the information provided to him by Crusader Uninsured Loss Recovery 
Service Limited (Crusader) when  passing his personal injury claim to solicitors  to deal with. 
background
In September  2017 Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident. Mr M contacted his broker 
to report the claim, and the call was directed to Crusader. Crusader explained that as the 
costs would be claimed from the third partys insurer,  it would manage  Mr Ms claim. 
During the initial call with Crusader on 26 September, Mr M explained the injures hed 
suffered because of the accident. He also asked about making a claim for personal injury.  
The call handler said Crusader could instruct solicitors to deal with the personal injury claim. 
The call handler asked  if Mr M was ok with this and he replied Yes. Mr M took a note of the 
name of the solicitors  and confirmed this with the call handler. Mr M was then given the 
option to be passed straight to the legal department, or to receive a call back. Mr M 
requested for a call back. 
On 27 September  Mr M received a call. The call handler said she was calling from the 
solicitors mentioned in the previous call. The call handler explained that Mr Ms details had 
been referred to it by Crusader. During  this call Mr M was told more  about the service 
provided by the solicitors  including the types  of things he could claim for. It was agreed that 
the call handler  would call Mr M back to go through the online claims pack. 
In the next call that took place half hour later, Mr M completed the online claims pack  
confirming his instruction  for the solicitors  to act for him. During  this process  Mr M asked if 
he could refer his claim to other solicitors in the event  of his claim failing. The call handler 
confirmed yes of course.  Mr M was asked if was happy to instruct the solicitors  as his legal 
representative. Mr M confirmed he was.  
In March 2019 Mr M complained to Crusader about  the way itd dealt with his claim, and the 
lack of information given to him about  choosing the right solicitor  to represent him. Mr M felt 
that Crusader  forced  the instruction to the solicitors on him, and he wasnt given a choice 
about this. Crusader responded to the complaint saying  that it had acted fairly.  
Mr M didnt  agree with Crusaders response. He referred his complaint to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service)  for us to investigate.  The 
investigator found that Crusader had acted reasonably.  Mr M said hed like an ombudsman 
to consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings  on this complaint  for 
broadly the same reasons.  I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to 
Mr M but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.  Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented  on any specific 
point its because I dont  believe its affected  what I think  is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN14782842Mr M says he was left feeling  exploited and used at a time of great  vulnerability.  Mr M 
spoke to Crusader  very shortly after the accident happened. I can appreciate the accident 
mustve been fresh  in Mr Ms mind, and I dont doubt  that he was left feeling  shaken and 
vulnerable. Mr M feels strongly  that Crusader is responsible for providing him with 
unsuitable legal representation. 
Crusader has provided three calls recordings evidencing the information given to Mr M as 
part of the service it provided. From listening to these calls,  I can see Mr Ms point about why 
he may have felt mis-led by Crusader and its relationship with the solicitors. Crusader refer 
to the call of 27 September as a call by one of its representatives on the validation team.  
Crusader has explained that its validation team  wouldve been responsible for completing 
the claim documentation on behalf of the solicitors before  the claim was passed  to the 
solicitors to deal with. 
But from listening to this call, the call handler introduces it as being  from the solicitors  who 
Mr Ms claim  was going to be passed to. Also, the terms and conditions sent to Mr M to sign 
during the call, are the terms  and conditions for the solicitors. So I dont think  the distinction  
between Crusader and the solicitors it was intending  to refer the claim to was clear. I can 
appreciate why Mr M has raised  concerns about the link between Crusader and the 
solicitors, because of this. Mr M has asked for Crusader to be prosecuted and fined. Mr M 
has commented on its business practices  being  set up for financial gain. 
When we investigate a complaint about the service provided by a business, we are looking 
at the impact  on an individual and what a business should do to put things right for that 
individual. Its not the role of this service to investigate bad practice across the financial and 
claims management sector,  and punish  a business. This role is carried out by the regulator- 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So although  I think Crusader couldve made their 
role in the claims process clearer, this isnt something Id award compensation for, unless 
theres evidence  that it impacted on Mr Ms decision-making on the claim. 
When investigating Mr Ms complaint,  Ive considered whether the referral to the solicitors 
was made  clear to Mr M, and whether Crusader acted with Mr Ms consent.  
We wouldnt expect Crusader to explain and advise on the most appropriate solicitors  to 
undertake the personal injury claim. We would expect it to clearly  explain details for any third 
party it refers to, and allow  Mr M the opportunity to accept or decline this instruction. When  
discussing the service  that would be provided  by the solicitors Mr M asked if he could 
instruct other solicitors in the event that his claim failed.  I think there was some indication  
from this conversation that Mr M could instruct other  solicitors  to act for him if he wanted to. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  that Crusader misled  Mr M into thinking that he didnt 
have a choice,  and would have to go through the solicitors it had referred him to.
Mr M was clearly  asked whether hed like to instruct solicitors for making  a personal injury 
claim. Mr M was given details for solicitors who could provide this service,  and he agreed for 
this referral to happen. Although Mr M provided this consent shortly after sustaining injuries 
from the accident, I dont  think  theres enough evidence from the call to say that his 
instruction shouldve been questioned or treated as void because of this. 
Mr M also says that theres no physical  or e-record of their part in recommending  / supplying  
/selling me the services  of the solicitors,  and this makes the process an underhanded ploy. 
The FCA sets the rules for what claims management companies  should be doing  when 
making a referral to a third party, and the level of documentation that it must provide. In this 
Ref: DRN14782843case, Mr M was told that Crusader could refer the personal injury aspect of his claim for 
solicitors to deal with. Mr M confirmed his instruction  to go ahead,  and the claim was 
referred. Although  I appreciate Mr M has been left feeling frustrated by what  has happened,  I 
dont think the lack of physical  evidence  makes the process dishonest. 
Mr M has also commented  that he has never spoken to, or had any contact from the 
solicitors instructed. The solicitors do not fall under the jurisdiction of this service  so Im 
unable to deal with this aspect of Mr Ms complaint. I understand Mr M has a separate  
complaint with the Legal Ombudsman  in respect of the service provided by the solicitors.
It sounds like the service received from the solicitors  hasnt been what  Mr M was expecting. 
But I cant hold Crusader  responsible for this. Although Crusader  couldve  been clearer in 
explaining its role in the process, I dont think Crusader misled  Mr M with the information it 
provided. It explained details for solicitors who could deal with the personal injury part of Mr 
Ms claim, and acted  with Mr Ms consent when referring his claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1478284