K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr K says Barclays Bank Plc (trading  as Barclaycard) (Barclays) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr K says he didnt want or need  the PPI and thought it was compulsory.   But I think  
Barclays made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it 
out at the time  although I can understand why he cant remember this as the sale was a 
long time ago. 
I say this as Ive seen  a copy of the screen I think Mr K would have seen and completed 
during his online application.  I can see Mr K would have had to either select  yes or no to 
the PPI to be able to continue with his application. So I think that Mr K clicked  yes agreeing 
to the PPI, which is supported by the application  record Barclays  have  given me. If he hadnt 
wanted it, I think he would have clicked no. 
Ive also seen copies  of some of Mr Ks credit card statements which show  a payment for 
PPI being taken. If it had been something he wasnt aware of or hadnt asked for, I think he 
would have questioned these payments with Barclays sooner than he did.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr K got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the PPI, knowing what sick pay and or other means he 
had to make  his repayments he had in place  and it looks like he still wanted  this type of 
cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for him if 
something went wrong. And its worth noting  it would have paid out on top of anything he 
would have received from his employer and for longer. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Ref: DRN13587722Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358772