K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Hood Group Limited (HGL), trading as Select & Protect, mis-sold them 
legal expenses cover  which  was part of their landlord insurance policy.
To be clear, the complaint  Im considering  is about  the alleged  mis-sale by HGL of the legal 
expenses element of Mr and Mrs Cs insurance package.
Im not considering  how Mr and Mrs Cs claim on their legal expenses policy  was dealt with 
by the provider of that cover (insurer A). Nor am I considering any matter  related to the wider 
package of cover they had (with  insurer B).
In addition, this Service cant consider  any concerns Mr and Mrs C had about the quality of 
legal services they received. That would be a matter to raise with the firm concerned in the 
first instance, and then potentially the Legal  Ombudsman  Service.
I mention the boundaries of my consideration of this case because  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint 
to this Service has several different facets.  So, I need to be clear about  the limits of my 
decision here.
background
Mr and Mrs C bought  a package of landlord insurance through  HGL in March 2016. This 
included cover for buildings, accidental and malicious damage  and legal expenses.
Unfortunately, in February 2017 Mr and Mrs Cs tenant vacated  their property with rent 
arrears. Damage to the premises was also apparent. The estimated total loss to them  was 
over £6,000. They tried to pursue  the tenant  for these losses using their legal expenses 
insurance.
Mr and Mrs Cs claim  was accepted by insurer A and solicitors were  appointed to work on 
their case.  But after the insurer received advice from the legal team that their claim didnt 
enjoy reasonable prospects of success it withdrew  cover.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with what had happened. As Ive already mentioned they raised  
various points about what  had gone  wrong and who was responsible. One of their 
arguments was that HGL hadnt asked them enough questions  about their circumstances. If 
it had they say they wouldve ended  up buying an alternative policy.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr and Mrs C disagreed and so their case  has 
come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
HGL told us that Mr C purchased the landlords insurance policy using a platform  available  to 
him as a distributor. Its given us his broker agent reference  and screen shots to confirm  
this. Mr C hasnt disputed  this. And I can see hes a financial adviser by occupation, so I 
understand why he had access  to the facility.
Ref: DRN11393342Ive not seen anything to make me doubt  what Mr Cs told us. His purchase of insurance was 
for personal  use. He was acting as a consumer in arranging cover  for the property he and 
his wife let out.
Theres agreement that HGL didnt advise Mr C about what  insurance package  to buy. So, it 
wouldnt have had responsibility for making sure the cover was tailored as far as possible to 
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances.
Given how Mr C purchased the insurance package I think  its fair to say HGLs role in the 
sale was somewhat limited. I also note that given Mr Cs occupation, he wouldve had more  
knowledge and understanding of the sort of insurance products he was buying than the 
average person.
Ive thought about whether there were terms in the policy that were significant, onerous  or 
unusual to the extent that they shouldve been  specifically drawn to Mr and Mrs Cs attention  
before they agreed to take out the cover. I dont think  there  were  in relation to their 
complaint.
The nub of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that the questions HGL asked as part of the 
application process shouldve been more extensive. For example, they say if theyd been 
asked about their compliance  with the tenant deposit scheme this wouldve made it clear  the 
policy on offer wasnt right for them and they couldve found an alternative.
I understand the argument Mr and Mrs C make, but Im afraid I dont agree.
The application process for insurance  is designed  to flush  out what the intermediary and /or 
insurer consider is key information.  For example,  this will help in determining eligibility and 
set some of the parameters for the risk a business is prepared  to underwrite.
In this case there wasnt a specific exclusion related to strict adherence to regulations for 
protecting a tenants deposit.  As the investigator  said, Mr and Mrs Cs claim was initially 
accepted by insurer A.
As is normal practice, the insurer  then sought legal  advice  about whether Mr and Mrs Cs 
case enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. The average person wouldnt incur legal 
costs, which  can be very expensive, if they didnt think  there  was a good chance  of success. 
And we think its fair for insurers to be able to make the same judgement.
The legal advice  received by insurer A said Mr and Mrs Cs case didnt have  reasonable 
prospects of success.  So, it withdrew  cover. This decision was nothing to do with the 
policyholders falling foul of any terms and conditions  of the policy.  It was related to an 
assessment of the potential impact of their non-compliance with landlord regulation on their 
chances of winning legal  action against  their former  tenant. 
As an aside,  I note Mr and Mrs C strongly  disagreed with the legal assessment made. And 
the investigator has already set out how they can pursue that matter  further  if they wish to.
Mr and Mrs C say they shouldve been asked about their compliance  with regulations related 
to protecting tenant deposits.  If they had been then they say everyone wouldve realised the 
policy wasnt right for them.
Ref: DRN11393343I dont think its practical   particularly where a sale is non-advised  for a broker and/or 
insurer to illicit through an application  process, an answer to every question that might  
conceivably have a bearing, directly  and indirectly in the future on any potential claim. Its 
instructive here to reflect on the significant extent  of regulation that applies to landlords.
The scope of any policy, the perils covered, and the terms  offered, is a matter for the insurer.
In this case the fact that Mr and Mrs C werent strictly compliant with landlord regulation as it 
applied to tenant deposits didnt  inhibit them making  a claim. The problem came  when 
solicitors assessed their legal case could be undermined by that non-compliance.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im not upholding this complaint. So, Hood Group  Limited 
doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1139334