K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies that were  sold to 
Mr R alongside a further advance to his mortgage. The first policy was taken out in 2001 and 
the second in 2002. 
I understand Mr R has complained about PPI sold alongside the initial mortgage. However, 
just to be clear that this decision  is only about  the cover  set out above.  
When the PPI was sold to Mr R, Lloyds was trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester. As Lloyds 
is responsible for answering this complaint, Ill refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision to 
keep things simple.  
background and summary to complaint
As I said above, Mr R had a mortgage with Lloyds. In 2001, he took out a further advance to 
that mortgage for £7,500  to be repaid  over a period of three years.  PPI was sold at the same  
time during a meeting  in a branch. In 2002, Mr R took out a new further advance for £12,000 
over a 10-year period.  PPI was sold alongside  this borrowing as well during another  meeting 
in a branch. 
Both policies  covered  Mr R for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment subject to some  
exclusions and limitations. His repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months  for 
each claim if he was off sick from work  or if he lost his job. The first policy  cost £3.75  a 
month and the second policy cost £9.75  per month. 
I can see that for the first policy, Mr R was employed as a site manager  and had been  in his 
role for some time. He told us that he was entitled to at least  12 months full sick pay from his 
employer and that he would have also received a redundancy payment which  was the 
equivalent of 12 months salary. He says he would have had a death in service payment as 
well. In respect of the second policy, Mr R told us he had been working with his employer for 
around six months. His position is that he would have had exactly the same  benefits in terms 
of sick pay and redundancy  as he had in his previous  role. I understand Mr R also said he 
had access to savings  of around £3,000  that were held on his behalf by his parents.  
Mr R told us that he had broken  a bone  as a child in 1982, around 20 years before he took 
the cover  out. I havent been  told that this injury caused Mr R to have  any ongoing issues.  
That being  so, I have proceeded on the basis that Mr R did not have a pre-existing medical  
condition when the cover  was sold. Mr R also says that he worked in a high risk occupation 
and so it would have been more  difficult for him to be able to make a PPI claim. 
Lloyds sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account was closed in 2004. 
Mr Rs representative made lengthy  and substantial  representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Rs 
representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr R wouldnt 
Ref: DRN12492512have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely Mr R could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should 
have told Mr R about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr R and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
These policies were sold before the sale of general  insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN12492513The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time of both sales,  which  I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils  
General Insurance Code for private  customers  the GISC Code. 
Both policies  were sold during a period of industry self-regulation  by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
For the first policy, under  the transitional provisions which  continue  to apply to complaints 
like this about acts or omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into 
account what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case  the Office of the 
Banking Ombudsman  might have been  expected to reach in relation  to an equivalent 
complaint. I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
Ref: DRN12492514reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. These sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr R and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr R know  he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
I note that those representing  Mr R did not specifically argue that PPI was not presented in 
an optional way. However, it was stated on his behalf that the cover for both sales was 
presented as part of a package alongside  his mortgage. 
In respect of both sales, I can see that Mr R had to complete a separate application form for 
the PPI, along  with a separate direct debit mandate.  If the cover was presented  as a 
package, I think  Mr R would have queried why he had to apply separately for both policies. 
The evidence Ive seen  doesnt suggest he did. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr R knew the policies were  
optional and he agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Ref: DRN12492515Both Lloyds  and Mr R agree that advice was provided during  this sale. This means  Lloyds 
had to advise  Mr R with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policies were  
appropriate or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policies were suitable 
recommendation for Mr R. It seems  Mr R cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed.  This is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a 
meeting. The adviser had some limited information about Mr Rs financial circumstances, but 
there is no specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr R would 
have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant the 
policies did not fully meet his needs.  For example,  there is nothing  to suggest  Lloyds  
considered whether Mr R had any pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr R given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mr R, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were ultimately suitable 
for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr R met the eligibility criteria  for the policies.
-Mr R had a need for the policies. I appreciate Mr R said he would have had 12 
months full sick pay from both of his employers. I think  that would be an extraordinary 
and unusual arrangement, especially as Mr R had only been  working  with the second  
employer for a period of six months.  I also consider it improbable  that Mr R would 
have been entitled  to the equivalent  of his annual salary in redundancy pay after 
working with an employer for six months.  That being so, I think  its most likely that for 
both roles, Mr R would  have  been entitled to some sick pay and redundancy pay, but 
I think the payments  would have lasted for less than the 12 months  both PPI policies 
would have covered him for. Mr R told us that he had some savings. But I note that at 
least some  of the borrowing he took out was to consolidate  existing  debts. So it 
seems as though  Mr R wanted to keep those savings intact rather than utilise it to 
reduce his borrowing. With all of this in mind,  it seems likely  that Mr Rs ability  to 
continue to meet his mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr R 
was not working  for an extended  period of time  even  allowing for redundancy and 
sick pay he may have been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the each policy appears  to have  been affordable  for Mr R. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr R. There  
was nothing about Mr Rs employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr R clarified he was in permanent employment.  And as Ive 
already set out above, I cant reasonably say Mr R had a pre-existing medical 
condition at the time of the sales. There were  also no additional restrictions  on cover 
for mental health or back problems.
-While  the policies  included a requirement that Mr R be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
Ref: DRN12492516months for each claim, they still provided valuable cover given: Mr Rs 
circumstances, the fact the policies protected the mortgage repayments relating to 
his home  and the potential consequences  should  Mr R be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
-Mr R said he had death in service benefit provided by his employer. But such  benefit 
would only pay out in the unfortunate  event of his death  and not if he became sick or 
if he lost his job. 
-I appreciate Mr R thought his occupation would have made  it more  difficult  for him to 
make a claim. But having considered both policies, I cant see anything  that would 
have stopped him from claiming  and I havent  seen any additional requirements hed 
have to meet because  of the nature of his work.   
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr R sufficient information 
about the cover to enable him to understand what Lloyds was recommending  to him and 
make an informed decision about whether to follow that advice and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr R was given a broad description of what the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that his payments  would be protected if Mr R was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr R would have taken out the 
policies without any sense  of what they were  for and of how much the premium  might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr R agreed  to take out the cover.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mr R Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policies in a way that was fair and reasonable. Im 
not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr R all of the information he needed about the cover to make 
an informed decision about  whether  to follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN12492517-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr R suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Lloyds ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr R? To what extent did Mr R suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this cover to Mr R. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr R suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr R would have 
still taken out the policies,  had Lloyds done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
cover it recommended was suitable  for Mr R, I have  found  that the policies were ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr R suffered loss or damage in 
this case primarily  depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained things properly, Mr R would 
have acted differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policies in any event.
Mr R says he wouldnt have taken the cover out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the cover, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr R had some interest in taking out PPI. By this I 
mean when  Lloyds advised him that there  was a suitable product he could buy that would 
protect his mortgage  payments in the event he was unable to work because  of accident, 
sickness and unemployment, he concluded  he wanted that product. But he made that 
decision based on incomplete information,  meaning  what he thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Rs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr R knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policies, I cant say Lloyds told him the exact premium at the point of sale.  Having 
said that, it seems likely Mr R would have been  told the cost before the policies started  and 
Ref: DRN12492518he paid for the cover  for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with 
their expectations at the point of sale, its possible he might have raised  that with Lloyds  at 
the time,  or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr R would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to each policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr R would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Rs expectations about 
what the policies  would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policies actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr R thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to any condition, injury,  illness,  disease or 
sickness Mr R knew about or ought  to have known about at the start date of each 
policy; or for which he had seen  or arranged to see or been  treated by a doctor 
during the 12 months immediately before the start date;  
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr R pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policies werent as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr R from taking out the cover.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. Mr R was eligible for the benefits and, 
despite the limitations and exclusions, the cover couldve proved valuable  to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr R 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. Ive already  set out why I dont 
consider Mr R a pre-existing medical condition and he was in permanent  employment. So, I 
still think he had some good reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr R 
would have expected to make a disability claim without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr R had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  given Mr Rs circumstances and the 
Ref: DRN12492519limited other means he had to make his repayments  if he wasnt working, on balance, I still 
think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr R that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but as 
Ive set out above, I consider 12 months was most likely a longer period than Mr R would 
have received full sick pay for and his statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly 
less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr R would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr R be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policies. The policies allowed for multiple claims to be made, they could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr Rs sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr R would still have taken out the policies. The policies were suitable for him, were 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr R was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr R 
would have taken  out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr R would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr R 
found himself in as a result of the sales was the same position he would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN124925110represent fair compensation to put Mr R in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr R compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr R thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr R, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 and 2002 when  providing information about insurance. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr R and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr R in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1249251