K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that BUPA Insurance  Limited applied an excess to her private medical  
insurance claims.
background
Mrs C has a private medical insurance policy with BUPA, which  has a £500 excess. She 
made two claims under  the policy for diagnostic tests, however these werent paid by BUPA 
as they fell within her £500 excess.  Mrs C was unhappy about this, as well as BUPAs 
reference to her diagnostic tests  as being  therapies. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  BUPA had acted in 
line with its policy terms by applying  the excess to Mrs Cs claims.  
Mrs C didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter  has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In August  2018,  Mrs C had an operation.  In the following  two months, she had two post-
operative consultations with diagnostic tests.  I understand all of this treatment was covered 
by BUPA.
After the policy  renewed on 1 November 2018, Mrs C had a further two consultations with 
diagnostic tests (on 12 November 2018 and 21 January 2019). The two consultations 
werent covered  under  the policy terms, however Mrs C was expecting  BUPA  to cover the 
cost of the diagnostic tests. She points out that the membership certificate says that out-
patient diagnostic  tests are paid in full. 
Ive looked at the membership certificate.  The first page explains that the certificate shows  
the benefits that Mrs C is covered for, including any specific variations that apply to her 
cover. The second page  then sets out the excess. It confirms the excess  to be £500 and 
says this applies each  year to treatment  costs for eligible treatment. Following this, the 
membership certificate sets out the cover  provided under the policy,  together  with any limits  
that may apply. This information  is spread over three pages.  Under  this section, it says that 
out-patient diagnostic tests are covered  and paid in full. 
Although the membership  certificate does indeed  say that out-patient diagnostic tests  are 
paid in full, the membership  certificate needs to be read as a whole.  Im satisfied the 
document makes  it clear that a policy excess of £500 applies each year to eligible  treatment.  
That means BUPA was entitled to apply  the excess to the claims it received for eligible 
treatment in the 2018/19 policy year. 
Ive checked the policy  terms and this defines  treatment as surgical  or medical  services  
(including diagnostic  tests) that are needed  to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease,  illness  or 
injury.
Im satisfied from this that Mrs Cs diagnostic tests  would be considered  treatment, and 
therefore the excess would apply. 
Ref: DRN18083052Following the diagnostic tests that took place  on 12 November, BUPA  wrote  to Mrs C to 
explain that the cost of her treatment was less than her excess, therefore she would need to 
pay the cost of this herself. The letter referred to her treatment  as therapies. 
Mrs C disagrees  that diagnostic tests are considered therapies. I agree with Mrs C on this 
point. However, BUPA  has explained  this was an error on its part, and its IT team  is currently  
implementing a fix. Its accepted by BUPA that Mrs C had diagnostic tests rather  than 
therapy treatment, and it has apologised for the error. I think this was a reasonable response 
and I dont require  BUPA to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1808305