K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that he never authorised a standing order thats been taken from his account 
with Bank  of Scotland plc over many years .Hed  like a refund  of all payments  made under the 
standing order.
background
Mr C recently found  out that a standing  order  of £65 a month  has been debiting  from his account 
for many years. He says he never authorised this and he complained to Bank  of Scotland. It 
didnt uphold his complaint.
Bank of Scotland explained that according  to the earliest statement it was able to view, the 
standing order shows as being paid in February 2005. The account was a joint account at that 
time and it couldnt confirm which party had set it up. It said it could try to recover the funds for 
him on a best endeavours  basis  but there was no guarantee this would be successful.
Mr C wasnt  happy with Bank of Scotlands response so he brought his complaint to our service. 
He explained that he had a joint account with his wife before they divorced  in 2007. When they 
divorced he says they asked for new accounts to be set up but he thinks  he retained  the account 
number of what was previously the joint account.  He thinks its possible the standing order was 
set up by his ex-wife, but he doesnt know.
When our adjudicator looked into Mr Cs complaint she explained that due to rules  set out by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority we cant investigate a complaint if it relates  to events that happened 
more than six years  ago. For this reason  she could only look at the standing orders that debited 
from his account in the six years prior to him bringing his complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because Bank of Scotland had 
sent him statements  showing details of the standing order being paid out. There  was nothing to 
suggest he questioned the standing order  in the last six years and nor was there anything to 
suggest hed asked for the standing order to be cancelled so she didnt  think Bank  of Scotland 
had acted unfairly in allowing the standing  order  to continue to be paid.
Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators view. He explained in detail  why he never  noticed the 
standing order.  He says its referenced on his statements as a series of numbers and not by the 
payees name. Had it been referenced  by the payees name he says he would have noticed it 
sooner.
He says hes only glanced at his statements  because since his divorce  hes been in financial 
difficulties and had to take out a loan at high rate of interest so hes been scared to see the 
amount of his debt.  He also says he was sold a packaged account which he thinks  was 
unsuitable for him.
Our adjudicator understood it was a difficult time for him and the reasons why he avoided his 
statements but was a reason for him being  unaware  of the standing order.
She explained that she couldnt comment about the loan he took out and hed need to raise this 
issue separately with the bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im sorry  to disappoint 
Ref: DRN15477562Mr C but I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator and for broadly the same  
reasons.
I appreciate the difficult financial position Mr C found himself in following his divorce and I 
empathise. Mr C has raised a number  of issues as part of his complaint that Im unable to 
consider. Ill explain these  first before I look at the merits of his complaint.
The adjudicator has already explained that we cant look into Mr Cs concerns about the loan he 
took out with Bank  of Scotland at a high rate of interest and nor can I look into his concerns  
about the suitability of the packaged bank account. Mr C has also expressed concerns about the 
way the joint account was separated on his divorce. Im I cant  look into these concerns as part of 
this complaint. Thats because these  are new points which werent  included  as part of his original 
complaint to Bank of Scotland. If Mr C remains concerned about these issues he will need to 
raise these separately with Bank  of Scotland and give it the opportunity to investigate.
In terms of the standing orders that have been taken  from Mr Cs account,  I can see that he was 
sent postal  statements by the bank and these  clearly show that a standing order for £65 debited 
from his account each  month. I havent seen anything to suggest that he questioned this until 
recently and I think  he ought reasonably  to have been aware of the standing order that debited 
from his account each  month  as it was shown on the account statements that were sent to him.
I can see that the standing order appears  on Mr Cs bank statements with a numerical reference 
rather than by payee name. Ive explained above that his account statements clearly show that a 
standing order of £65 was debited from his account each  month  and I think that if he had any 
concerns about this I think its reasonable that he should have  raised  this sooner.
For the reasons detailed above, I cant say Bank of Scotland  acted unfairly by allowing the 
standing order to continue.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject 
my decision  before 3 March 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1547756