K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with a phone conversation  he had with The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc 
(RBS) in November 2018 about  his mortgage account.
background
I wont go into the background that led up to this call as matters  are well known to both 
sides; suffice to say Mr A has been  in arrears on his mortgage for many years.
On 5 November  2018 Mr A called RBS to discuss his mortgage. He said he was going  to put 
his property on the market, and RBS said that wouldnt be enough  in itself  to halt the 
application for eviction.  The call lasted just over 20 minutes.
After the call Mr A complained about it. He told us RBS had overstepped its authority or 
standards and had conducted a tirade which was unjustified. He said as a result of the 
conversation he was convinced he was to be evicted  more or less immediately.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr As complaint  be upheld. She said shed  listened  
to the call and didnt think RBS had done anything wrong. Mr A didnt agree, and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr A has explained his account  in 
considerable detail. I trust he wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint 
in the way that I have. Ours  is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr A but although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome.
Our adjudicator sent Mr A a transcript shed made  after listening to the call in full. Mr A 
replied to say, I quote verbatim:
In your text, 9th from bottom, I ask, how long has he got. After  that, although  omitted 
from the text, is when RBS started  telling I had to get out of my house by the end of the 
week. That part of the conversation lasted  several minutes as the RBS person I was 
speaking to went through the pretence of having to get confirmation from a senior 
manager. The manager confirmed I had to be out within  three days.
With reference to my query regarding RBS supplying  a recording of our conversation  
this now is becoming  a serious  problem as the excerpts listed below are missing the 
crucial statements I am complaining about.
What you have shown  below is not worthy  of a complaint  and as I do not know  where 
you received your text do I now need  to believe RBS supplied  you with what  they 
thought could get away?
Ref: DRN12115362I would like to think that RBS would not seek to alter or edit a conversation of this 
magnitude.
Our adjudicator then sent Mr A the call recording,  to which he replied:
The RBS sent a false recording  of our conversation to [the adjudicator]  who did not 
appear to grasp what they had done
Ive listened very carefully to the call between  Mr A and RBS many  times and Im satisfied 
the call handler  dealt with matters professionally  and politely. There was certainly no tirade 
as Mr A has said,  nor was he told he needed to be out of the property in three days or any 
other short time period. Instead the call handler told him the eviction was likely to be in the 
next month or so - perhaps sooner - but that it was down  to the court.
Mr A has claimed that RBS has sent a false  recording  of the conversation, which is a very 
serious allegation and one for which Ive found  no evidence.  The end of the call recording is 
clearly the end of the conversation, and theres  nothing  to indicate the call has been edited 
to remove any part of it.
Whilst this complaint has been with us Mr A has raised some new issues. As we can only 
deal with the complaint that was originally referred to us, our case handler  asked  RBS to 
investigate the new complaint and contact Mr A directly. If Mr A is unhappy with RBS 
response when  he receives it then he can refer that to us as a new complaint at the time 
(subject to our usual  rules). 
However I feel its prudent to let Mr A know that, contrary to his belief, RBS isnt obliged  to 
put legal  action on hold whilst we investigate his complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1211536