K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt cash his travellers  cheques, and it hadnt 
notified him of this.
 
background
Mr C said that he took some travellers cheques on holiday with him recently,  but wasnt able 
to cash them. When he got home,  he asked his bank,  HSBC, how he could cash  them, and 
was told he could take them into a branch. But when he got there, the branch staff said that 
HSBC stopped accepting these cheques  some years ago. Mr C had now found  out he had to 
send the cheques overseas to get his money  back. 
HSBC said it was sorry hed had trouble cashing  the cheques. It stopped  accepting  and 
selling these cheques  in June 2014.  It said it put notices in all its branches, and included this 
information on emails  that it sent to customers.  HSBC said it sent Mr C one of these emails 
in July 2014. 
Mr C said hed never received that email. And he said that HSBC  had an obligation to send 
him clear notification if it was withdrawing  this service. It hadnt done  that. So he wanted 
HSBC to pay his out of pocket expenses for cashing  the cheques, which  included  wasted 
trips to a branch of HSBC,  then to the places that HSBC suggested  might  cash the cheques, 
then the cost of sending  the cheques overseas to be redeemed. And he wanted  
compensation for his wasted time and the stress  this had caused him. 
When HSBC wrote to our service,  it said it had written to Mr C to tell him about the changes 
to its travel policy in January 2014, and it thought that letter wouldve mentioned  that it was 
going to stop taking  travellers cheques. It had sent him emails  after June 2014 which 
wouldve confirmed that it was no longer taking travellers cheques. HSBC said it had also 
displayed the details of the change prominently in its branches, and it said that it could  show 
that Mr C went  into a branch in August  2014.  HSBC didnt think  it had done anything  wrong.
Our investigator said that an email that may have been sent to Mr C to tell him that HSBC 
wasnt accepting the cheques any more, seemed to have been  sent after HSBC had stopped 
taking the cheques. So that wouldnt have helped Mr C to cash  the cheques. But she didnt 
suggest we uphold this complaint. She didnt think it was unreasonable for HSBC to stop 
accepting travellers cheques. And she thought HSBC had also written  to Mr C in good time 
before it stopped accepting these cheques, so he had some  warning of this, and enough 
time to cash  them then. She didnt think HSBC had done anything  wrong.  
Mr C didnt accept the conclusions of our investigator,  or the basis on which  shed reached 
them. He said it was reasonable for HSBC to stop accepting travellers  cheques, but not to 
hide information  about this in a general document  on travel.  He said HSBC  couldnt evidence 
that it had sent him individual notification of this, and he thought  that it just hadnt done  so. 
Mr C also sent us further documentation  hed received from HSBC  as part of a subject 
access request. That included a list of letters hed been sent. The letter that HSBC said it 
sent in January 2014 wasnt listed there. 
Mr C said that HSBC  was in breach of consumer law, and the banking  conduct of business  
rules. And he itemised the cost to him of trying  to sort this matter  out, as well as the time 
hed spent researching  his complaint and trying to make  sense  of the documents  that HSBC 
had sent for his SAR, which were supplied out of order.
Ref: DRN17014202Mr C asked for his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it in full. I said then that I didnt think that HSBC had written to Mr C to tell him that he 
would no longer be able to cash travellers cheques  there. But I didnt think  that was the 
same as HSBC ceasing to provide  Mr C with travel  insurance. I thought that what  HSBC  had 
done was enough to alert Mr C to the fact that it would no longer provide  this service. 
Mr C wrote in reply,  to say that Id made a mistake. Id assumed  he hadnt bought the 
travellers cheques at HSBC, but he said he thought he had. I think  that Mr C did say that to 
our service  originally, and I apologised to him for my oversight on this.
I asked HSBC about this, and it initially  said it couldnt confirm that it had ever sold these 
cheques. We asked again, and it then said that still couldnt confirm whether  it had sold 
these particular travellers cheques  to Mr C. But it said it did sell these travellers  cheques in 
the past. It stopped UK sales of these in 2009.  It thought these cheques  must have been 
purchased before that though, because of the information it could see on the copy cheques 
that Mr C had provided. Most of them were from a joint venture between two companies 
which ended around 2007, so were  presumably bought before that. And one seemed to date 
from before  that joint venture started, so may have  been purchased prior to 1995.
Because of that, I reconsidered  this complaint.  I was sorry to have to tell Mr C that I hadnt  
changed my mind about the outcome. Much of what followed was, therefore, not very 
different to my previous  provisional decision.
my second  provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint and explained  why I only proposed 
to uphold it in part. This is what I said then 
-As I understood  it, Mr C accepted  that HSBC was entitled to stop taking travellers  
cheques. But he said if its going  to do that, it has to tell him. And it shouldnt  bury that 
information in an email about something else. When Mr C was no longer entitled to 
HSBCs travel insurance, it wrote him a clear and specific letter, just about  that. Mr C 
thought HSBC shouldve done  the same when  it stopped taking travellers  cheques.
-HSBC though it did tell Mr C about the change. It said it wrote to him in January 2014 
with a letter setting  out changes to its travel policy. Although  HSBC hadnt  sent us this 
letter, it thought  that this letter  wouldve told Mr C that HSBC was no longer accepting 
travellers cheques.  And it mentioned other efforts it made  to get this message across.  
-HSBC wasnt able to show  us this letter. And the letter wasnt included  in the documents 
that HSBC sent to Mr C. So we couldnt be sure what  it actually said.
-I appreciated that HSBC may simply no longer  have such a letter.  But Id also seen  an 
internal memo from HSBC, which said the travellers cheques  service was being  
withdrawn, dated 2 May 2014. It listed the actions  that had been taken, and were being  
taken, to alert customers to the change.  It said that certain customers  would receive a 
Ref: DRN17014203notification by letter in May 2014 saying that travellers cheques  would shortly no longer  
be accepted by the bank.  Mr C wasnt among those  customers. 
-It seemed surprising, if HSBC was alerting  its staff to this change in May 2014, and 
telling staff how customers  were  being informed that travellers  cheques wouldnt  be 
accepted any more, that it wouldnt  tell its staff that it had sent out letters to its customers 
in January 2014 telling  them about  this change. 
-For those reasons, I still thought it was more likely  that the letter  sent in January 2014 
didnt actually tell Mr C he would  no longer  be able to cash travellers cheques at HSBC.  
-HSBC made some  efforts, using emails  about  travel services it provided and displayed  in 
branches, to inform  its customers of the changes. The question was whether it had a 
duty to Mr C to do more than this. I previously thought it didnt, at least  partly  because I 
didnt think Mr C had bought his travellers cheques from HSBC. I now thought  it was 
more likely than not that he did do so, although  it also seemed likely that this was quite 
some time ago. 
-I knew Mr C thought  that one of the reasons that HSBC  had a duty to inform him of this 
change in 2014 was that he bought  these  cheques from HSBC. I considered his view on 
that carefully, but I didnt agree that HSBC  let Mr C down, in 2014,  when it didnt inform 
him personally that he could  no longer cash these  cheques  through  its branches.  So I 
didnt think this changed the overall position  on this case.
-Mr C said that when  HSBC stopped  providing him with travel insurance, it wrote a 
specific letter to him about that. But in that instance, HSBC had been providing him with 
a benefit. And he was no longer entitled to that benefit. HSBC  wrote to Mr C, at the time 
that this benefit  was withdrawn, to notify him of that. I didnt think that when HSBC  
stopped taking travellers cheques, the situation  was the same.
-The travellers cheques that Mr C needed  to cash  probably were purchased from HSBC. 
But when  HSBC  did that, it acted as an agent for another organisation. That organisation 
issued the cheques,  and it would be responsible for reimbursing anyone  who then 
accepted these cheques. Because the cheques  Mr C has werent issued  by HSBC itself,  
I wouldnt expect HSBCs records to show that Mr C was still holding  them  in 2014. 
-HSBC told us it could  date these cheques from the information on them.  And what its 
told us suggested  to me that the cheques must  have been purchased quite some time 
before this service  was withdrawn by HSBC. So, even  if I assumed that HSBC did sell Mr 
C these cheques, I still wasnt clear that HSBC shouldve known in 2014 that Mr C had 
cheques that he would need to cash somewhere. Or that it shouldve  known, in 2014, 
that he wouldnt still be able to cash any cheques  that he did have, somewhere else.  
-I reviewed  all the evidence in this case,  and thought carefully about what Mr C said,  but I 
didnt think that HSBC had the particular responsibility that Mr C argued for, to notify him 
clearly and separately in 2014 that it was no longer accepting travellers cheques.
-I still thought that what HSBC  did in this case was enough to alert Mr C to the fact that it 
was stopping providing a service  that it had no particular reason to expect he would  
need, or would  be unable to obtain elsewhere.
Ref: DRN17014204-But I also still thought  that HSBC made a mistake in this case. When  Mr C rang to ask 
how he could cash his cheques, he said he was told to take them to a branch. I didnt 
think that HSBC suggested  to us that Mr C wasnt told that. 
-That put Mr C to some trouble. He made  a special trip to the branch, where he was told 
that HSBC didnt accept the cheques,  and hadnt  done  for quite some time. 
-I thought HSBCs call centre staff should be able to give callers the right advice about 
whether it accepts travellers cheques or not. So it shouldve  given him the right 
information about that over the phone. And because it didnt, I thought HSBC should pay 
some compensation for Mr Cs wasted trip, and wasted time. I thought that £50 was a 
fair amount  to make  up for that.
-HSBC then offered  Mr C some other suggestions of where he might  be able to get his 
cheques cashed,  and Mr C spent time and money trying those, before eventually  
discovering that he would have to send these cheques overseas to be redeemed. But I 
thought that all HSBC was doing  then was making suggestions of places it thought  might 
take the cheques, in an effort to help him. 
-I thought it was fair to say HSBC should  know what  services its own branches  provide, 
so it would be responsible if it gave wrong advice about that. But I didnt think it would be 
fair if I were to hold HSBC responsible  for the costs Mr C incurred following up on some 
suggestions it made of other places where he might be able to cash them. HSBC was 
only making suggestions then, in a effort to help Mr C. And, because I thought HSBC did 
enough to bring the end of its travellers cheques service to Mr Cs attention, I also didnt 
think it had to pay Mr C back the costs he incurred in cashing  these  cheques.
-My provisional decision was that HSBC should pay Mr C £50 in compensation. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both Mr C and HSBC replied.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
HSBC said it had no further comment. Mr C said he was happy to go ahead on this basis,  
because it covered his out of pocket costs,  although not the time spent raising  the complaint. 
Ill now make  the award I proposed in my second  provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc must pay Mr C £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ref: DRN17014205ombudsman
Ref: DRN1701420