K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way a subsidence claim under his landlord  insurance policy  has 
been handled by Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe  SE.
background
At the end of 2016 Mr G made a claim to Liberty after cracks appeared in his property  which 
was built around  2009.  He also made a claim under his building warranty.  Liberty  appointed  
a loss adjuster  to investigate the claim.
At first Liberty said it didnt accept liability as the policy excludes damage  covered by a 
building warranty for new properties. When it discovered that the other insurer  didnt accept 
liability under  the building warranty,  it decided  to carry out further investigations.  It reviewed 
a CCTV survey of Mr Gs drains and carried out tests on the soil.
Following that Liberty said the damage and cracks  hadnt been caused  by subsidence. It 
thought the property had been built with inadequate  foundations on poor subsoil. It said this 
wasnt covered by Mr Gs policy. It offered to carry out monitoring,  on a without liability  basis,  
to help Mr G diagnose  the problem. It also agreed to contribute towards temporary  repairs.
In a letter to Mr G, Liberty wrongly  told him it had paid him £2,500 in compensation for 
delays. This was a mistake and the amount was in fact £500. It later paid a further £100 
compensation. Mr G feels it should  pay the £2,500 he was led to expect would be paid.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  it. She thought 
Libertys offer was reasonable.  As Mr G didnt agree,  the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a policyholder makes a claim,  its for them to show that an event covered by their 
policy most likely  caused  the damage. Sometimes it will be clear,  for example if theres been 
a serious fire or flood.  Other times, as in this case, it will be less clear. I need to consider 
whether Mr G showed Liberty  that it was more  likely  than not that his property had been 
damaged by subsidence.
The insurer  under Mr Gs building warranty instructed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage 
at Mr Gs property.  That loss adjuster couldnt confirm  the cause of the cracking at the 
property. He reported in October  2017 that the damage hadnt got worse since his first visit 
in November 2016. He also noted  that the surface water drainage wasnt  working properly.
Libertys loss adjuster  similarly was unable to be sure that the damage  was subsidence. I 
appreciate that Mr G says he was told by the loss adjuster at the time of his inspection  that it 
was subsidence  damage but thats not what his report said. He thought the cracks were  
unusual. The loss adjuster noted  that nearby trees might be causing the clay soil under the 
property to shrink and/or  that the property might be suffering from heave. He recommended 
further investigations to confirm the cause of the damage,  including digging trial boreholes 
and testing soil and root samples.
Ref: DRN15657952Unfortunately these investigations  didnt  lead to a firm conclusion.  One possibility  according  
to the loss adjuster was that the property had inadequate foundations  and the damage had 
been caused by settlement which isnt covered by Mr Gs policy.  Since there was no 
evidence at that stage that the damage was covered by Mr Gs policy,  I think Liberty  treated 
Mr G fairly in offering  to carry out further tests.
In making an offer of compensation to Mr G, Liberty has effectively accepted  that it could 
have handled  his claim better. Mr G first made his claim in December 2016. There was 
about a five month delay before its loss adjuster made contact with Mr G to try to arrange a 
visit to the property. I can understand that this delay has been frustrating for Mr G. Liberty 
also failed to keep  Mr G updated as to progress  as it should have done and didnt respond 
promptly to its loss adjusters request for approval to carry out further investigations.  
Subsidence claims are often long, drawn out affairs. But I can see that in this case Liberty  
made it worse for Mr G than it needed  to be. Having said that though,  I think  compensation 
of £500 is appropriate for the affect this poor service would have had on Mr G and in line 
with what Id have  awarded if Liberty hadnt  made this offer. 
I can appreciate how disappointing it would have  been for Mr G to be led to believe for a 
short time he would be paid £2,500 compensation when in fact that was a mistake  and the 
writer had meant to say £500. Liberty  paid a further  £100 compensation for that which I think  
is reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall I dont think Mr G has been treated unfairly or unreasonably by Liberty.
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1565795