K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms B took out with a store card in 1999. Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Ms W that she had a choice about it. But 
Ms W has said she wasnt given the option  to opt out of anything and didnt realise  she was 
taking out PPI.
FICL has sent us a copy of Ms Ws application  form for the store card.  This included  a 
section on PPI, with a space for Ms W to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Ms W has 
signed in the space.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I think FICL did make it clear to Ms W that she had a 
choice about the PPI. And that Ms W chose to take it, knowing she didnt have  to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Ms W any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Ms W. But it did have  to make sure she got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And shes told us she wasnt  entitled to any sick pay from her employer at the 
time. So it looks like it couldve been  useful to her.
Ms W has said her family wouldve helped her with her repayments.  And I dont doubt  they 
wouldve wanted to help. But peoples financial circumstances  can change, so they might not 
have been able to help when Ms W needed  it. The PPI meant Ms W didnt need  to rely on 
her family to make her repayments if she couldnt  work. So I still think the policy  wouldve 
been useful for her. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about I wouldve put Ms W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN13814222my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1381422