K820x#14complaint
Ms S and Mr S complaint  about fees and charges and the increase to the balance of their 
interest only mortgage with Elderbridge Limited.
background
Ms S and Mr S, who were married but are now divorced, took out an interest  only mortgage 
in 2006 through a broker, with a lender  that Ill call D. Ive already issued a decision on a 
complaint about  the broker, in which I explained  why I didnt think,  on the evidence available, 
that the mortgage was mis-sold.  
In 2016, the mortgage was transferred from D to Elderbridge, which is therefore now 
responsible for it.
The mortgage was to replace an existing mortgage,  and also consolidate various  debts 
connected with Ms Ss business. Unfortunately, the business continued to struggle, and Ms 
S was forced to close  it down. As a result, Ms S and Mr S have been in financial difficulties 
for a number of years. Over that time, theyve made some monthly payments to the 
mortgage, missed others, and in other months theyve made some but not all the contractual  
payment due. As a result, the mortgage has been in arrears  for some time.
Ms S and Mr S have made  various complaints about  the mortgage. Elderbridge responded 
to a complaint  in February 2017 and refunded some arrears fees which had been  charged. It 
responded to another complaint in April 2018,  again refunding some fees.
Ms S, later joined by Mr S, brought the complaint  to our service.  Another ombudsman has 
already said that we cant look at any fees charged  before February  2017,  because they 
were covered in the final response  sent at that time.  As Ms S and Mr S didnt complain to us 
within six months of that response, they are now out of time to ask us to look at the matters 
covered in it. But we can consider fees applied since February  2017,  covered in the April 
2018 response, since that was referred to us in time.
Our investigator said that Elderbridge had offered to refund all the fees charged  since  
February 2017. He considered that a fair offer.  Ms S asked for the complaint to be reviewed  
by an ombudsman. She considered that we should look at everything that had happened 
over the years,  and that she and Mr S hadnt  been fairly treated. They had been charged 
excessive fees,  the balance  had gone up, and Elderbridge hadnt been  sympathetic to their 
circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The other ombudsman  has explained why we cant consider anything  that happened, or fees 
charged, before February 2017. I agree with what he said, so will only focus on things after 
that in this decision.
I note that Elderbridge has refunded  fees charged  in that period already.  There are no 
outstanding fees charged  between February 2017  and when Ms S raised the complaint, so 
there is nothing for me to ask it to refund now.
Ref: DRN11255872Ms S asks why the balance is higher than the amount they borrowed.  There  are still fees on 
the account  I cant look at whether  they were fairly charged, but its a fact that theyre  there 
 and that partly explains the increase. But the main reason is due to interest. This is an 
interest only mortgage. Each month  interest  is charged and added to the balance,  and then 
supposed to be cleared  off again  by the monthly payments. But if a payment is missed,  or 
not made in full, then some or all of the interest  will remain on the balance.  That means the 
next months interest charged is more,  because its charged on a higher balance.  And even if 
the full monthly  payment is made, it wont now be enough to clear  all the added  interest. In 
this way, missed payments  even if theyre later caught up  cause  the balance  to increase 
gradually over time through the addition of extra  interest. Thats whats happened here.
Ms S also complains about not being  given information. I can see that Elderbridge  has now 
provided her with a full history of the account,  showing  all transactions, so that she will be 
able to see what has happened over the years. I think thats fair.
I do understand Ms S and Mr Ss strength of feeling and the upset their situation has caused  
them. Im sorry  to hear about  Ms Ss health problems and Im sure that hasnt  made things 
any easier. Ive explained  why I can only look at what happened in a very narrow window. In 
that time,  I dont think Elderbridge has acted unfairly; its tried to keep in touch with Ms S and 
Mr S to discuss  the account  and see what can be done to bring it up to date. Its answered 
Ms Ss various complaints  and given her the information shes  asked for. And, given there 
are no fees charged  in that period which remain on the account,  I dont  think I can fairly  
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1125587