K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W has complained that Nationwide Building Society will not refund any 
commission it received from their payment protection insurance  (PPI) premiums for the 
policy they took out with a loan in 1998.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  about commission. 
Thats because my colleague issued a final decision on the mis-sale of the PPI in 2014  so 
Im unable to look at this again. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, and 
Ill explain  why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Nationwide has given  me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Ws loan was taken  out in 1998 
and ended in 2003. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI 
they had with their loan.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ref: DRN15420682ombudsman
Ref: DRN1542068