K821x#15complaint
Miss B and Mr S have complained that Advantage Insurance  Company Limiteds actions -
concerning their motor  insurance policy - resulted in a County Court Judgment (CCJ) being 
registered in Miss Bs name.
Miss B is a named driver  on Mr S policy but Miss B has taken the lead in bringing this 
complaint; so, for ease, Ill refer to her actions and comments as being in respect of both her 
and Mr S.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.  
background
After being parked Miss Bs car rolled  back and damaged another car. The other  drivers  
insurer repaired that car and claimed its outlay (the amount it paid out on the claim) back  
from Miss Bs policy. Advantage didn't deal with the claim  and the other insurer  passed  the 
matter to solicitors. They applied to the court for a judgment that Miss B needed to reimburse 
the other insurer. Miss B told Advantage about  the application to the court. It told her it would 
deal with it. But the hearing went ahead  and the court granted a CCJ against Miss B. 
Advantage passed the matter to its solicitors to apply to have the CCJ cancelled.
Miss B brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't  think that Advantage had handled  
matters fairly. So she said it should  pay Miss B and Mr S £750 compensation to address 
their distress  and inconvenience. Advantage didn't agree so the complaint's been  passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Miss Bs made  a number of points and I've considered  everything  
she's said carefully. But in this decision  I will focus on what  I see as being the outstanding 
points following our adjudicators assessment of it.
Liability wasn't  ever in dispute in this claim, so dealing with the other drivers insurers  costs 
should have been fairly  straightforward. But it appears that Advantage initially overlooked the 
other insurers claim. So, the other  insurer passed the matter to its solicitors. If Advantage 
had dealt with the claim  as it should  have done,  thats unlikely to have ever happened.
After Miss B told Advantage about the other sides court application,  Advantage did take 
action to raise payment  without delay. But it didn't confirm that the other insurers  solicitors 
had received that payment and had stopped the court  action. In fact, the day before the 
hearing was due to be heard Advantage noted  that the other insurers solciitors  had 
received a NOD  a notice of discontinuance, which I understand  is the official  notification 
that court action  has been withdrawn  and closed its file. But that simply wasn't  the case. At 
that time,  as far as the other  sides  solicitors  were concerned Advantage still hadn't paid and 
the hearing was going ahead.  And if Advantage had realised that at that time,  rather than 
closing the file, it could have contacted the solicitors or defended the action  on the grounds 
that it had already made payment. But it didn't do so and as a result the court  made a CCJ 
against Miss B.
Ref: DRN11369192I can understand, given  that Advantage had made payment to the other sides solicitors, it 
wasn't expecting  that to happen. But, as I've said above, it could have prevented the 
solicitors or the court from taking  that action. For completeness I've seen that in fact the 
solicitors had received  the payment in time, but it appears that Advantage hadn't  included 
the solicitors reference number  with the payment. As a result the solicitors finance  
department didn't know which file or claim the payment was in respect of. So they didn't 
update the appropriate  file promptly while they made enquiries as to what it related to. Again 
I think this could have  been avoided if Advantage had followed up on its payment and 
ensured that the solicitors had received it before the hearing went  ahead.
But because Advantage didn't do that the other sides solicitors  went ahead with the hearing. 
And after that, didn't mark the CCJ as being  satisfied  that is paid in full  for some time. So 
Advantage had to instruct its own solicitors  to have the CCJ cancelled. Im aware that 
process took some months to complete. Throughout  that process it's clear  from Miss Bs 
comments that she found the matter incredibly stressful,  it took up a lot of her time, and 
caused her to be unwell and to visit her doctor on several occasions. All of that could have 
been avoided  but for Advantages actions. So, to address  Miss Bs and Mr S distress and 
inconvenience resulting from Advantages poor handling of that matter, I think  it should pay 
them £750  compensation.  Im satisfied that sum is reasonable as its in line with awards we 
make in cases of similar  seriousness.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Miss B and Mr S £750  compensation to address their distress  and 
inconvenience. Advantage  should  pay the compensation within  28 days  of us telling it that 
Miss B and Mr S have accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
simple interest on the compensation  from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage  pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B and Mr S how much its taken off. It should  also give 
them a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN1136919