K820x#14complaint
Ms W says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms W bought the policy in 2006 at the same time as taking out a credit card. She says she 
applied for the credit  card and PPI policy  in branch. 
At the time,  Ms W was employed as a Cashier.  She has told us she was entitled to statutory 
sick pay but had no other  means of repaying  her credit card if she was unable to work. Ms W 
has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Ms Ws credit  card balance in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account  closed in 2008.
Ms Ws representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ws representative  says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Ms W about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms W and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Ms W received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN14481582Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws complaint.
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2008. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider that they still represent a helpful  guide to good industry practice. 
As a result its appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN14481583The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so HSBC was required to take into account  the evidential provisions in DISP App 3 
when considering Ms Ws complaint.
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Ms W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Ms W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms W suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms W and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms W know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN14481584HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
HSBC say that regardless of how the credit card was sold in order  take out PPI Ms W 
wouldve had to tick a box and sign separately for PPI on the credit agreement. 
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time HSBC no longer holds a copy  of Ms Ws credit 
agreement but has given us a sample of what was in use at the time. I can see Ms W 
wouldve had to actively select  to take PPI. 
I also note that Ms W cancelled the policy in 2007 but her credit card remained active.  So 
taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Ms W knew the policy was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC are unable  to confirm if advice was provided  during  this sale.  So Im going to treat the 
sale as advised  as this puts Ms W in the best position.
This means  HSBC had to advise Ms W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Ms W. It seems Ms W cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Ms Ws 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Ms W would have been caught by the significant exclusions  and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  HSBC considered whether Ms W had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that HSBC  did all it should  have  
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Ms W given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded HSBC advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Ms W, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Ms W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Ms Ws ability to continue  to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time.
-Although Ms W says she was financially stretched  at the time,  Ive seen nothing else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms W. There was 
nothing about  Ms Ws employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult 
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
Ref: DRN14481585could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Ms Ws 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Ms W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  HSBC  
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms W was given  a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Ms W would  have been told this  at the very least  during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Ms W would have  taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was. 
Im also satisfied Ms W would have realised the policy wasnt  free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether HSBC  gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Ms W 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Ms 
W might have  been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her decision  on the 
things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms W, Im not persuaded HSBC  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Ms W. Im not persuaded that HSBC gave Ms W all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ws representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ws. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ws representative considers to be poor 
Ref: DRN14481586value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms W about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms W has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Ms W? To what extent did Ms W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that HSBC  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms W. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had HSBC done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that HSBC took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Ms W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms W has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Ms W would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Ms W says she would not have taken  it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms W had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
Ref: DRN14481587In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Ms W ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that HSBC didnt make  clear the on-going  cost information. So while  Ms W 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim wasnt  
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Ms W 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
 I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Ms W pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms W from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Ms W didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Ms W needed to be totally  unable to do her normal  job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what she would have  
expected to make a claim. After  all, the credit  card application form says the policy  provides  
cover if you cant  work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. So it seems unlikely 
she would  have thought shed been able to make  a successful claim if she was still working, 
whether that be in her normal job or any other job.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Ms W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and she didnt have any means of meeting her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, she thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Ref: DRN14481588Ms Ws representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms W would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms W 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms W in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Ms W compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms W thinks  HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Ms W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2006 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ws representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms W and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had  been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
Ref: DRN14481589the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms W in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1448158