K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains a new vehicle she leased from Lex Autolease  Ltd (Lex) is defective.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my provisional 
decision, which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
Mrs H accepted my provisional  decision but put forward  a few additional points which  Ill 
summarise:
The reliability and accuracy of the manufacturers input on the case had to be 
questioned, as they had got basic facts wrong  on several occasions, such  as how 
many miles the car had covered when it went into the garage.
A document from the manufacturer which applied to the car, and which  had been  
discovered by an independent garage,  indicated that there was a problem with the 
DPF.
The independent engineer sent out by Lex had admitted verbally that the test it had 
carried out was not sufficient. In addition to this, there had been  a number of other 
verbal admissions by representatives  of the manufacturer  and/or dealership that 
there were problems with this model  of car.
Mrs H also emphasised that the situation  with the car had made  day-to-day  family life very 
difficult, and gave some more detail about  this. 
Lex did not agree with the provisional decision.  It commented both on the merits of the case, 
and on what redress would be appropriate  if Mrs Hs complaint were  to be upheld.
In terms of merits, Lexs arguments could be summarised as follows:
It is certain that Mrs Hs driving style is the cause of the repeated  failures of the DPF, 
and not a fault. There is a wealth of evidence from the manufacturer, repairers and 
the independent engineer it has sent to look at the car, that there is nothing wrong 
with it  and even the independent garage Mrs H had used was unable to find a fault.  
Ultimately any evidence that the car has a fault is just circumstantial.
The appearance  of a warning light two days after delivery of the vehicle was not 
evidence of a fault. It just meant  the DPF was unable to regenerate in that set of 
circumstances.
The engine needs to reach  its operating temperature  before the DPF will begin 
regenerating, so this time needs  to be factored  in when  thinking about how long a 
journey is needed  to regenerate the DPF.  Its suggested  this may be the reason why 
Mrs H and this service  have been  given conflicting  information on how long the 
process should take.
It accepts  that there are limitations  in using averages to determine Mrs Hs driving 
pattern, but this information should  not be discounted. It thinks that Mrs Hs 
recollection of her driving style is likely to be honest, but could be flawed as memory 
Ref: DRN11528692isnt perfect. It thinks the majority of her driving does not create  the right conditions  to 
regenerate the DPF, and that she has made  no attempt to alter her driving style to 
allow successful regenerations.
It might well be that the car is unsuitable  for Mrs H, but that is not its responsibility  as 
the leasing company  and it doesnt mean the vehicle  is of unsatisfactory quality.
It doubted that the information in the cars  manual about the DPF could be 
considered a public statement by the manufacturer, or that it could be expected to 
be aware of it given it leased  so many types of goods. In any event there  was no 
evidence Mrs H had actually relied  on this information when deciding to lease the 
car, and it also considered it would be unusual for Mrs H to have thought to look at 
the manual before she acquired  the vehicle.
In terms of the redress, Lexs position was that it thought  the lease agreement  should not be 
removed from Mrs Hs credit file. It said removal wasnt  an accurate reflection of what had 
happened, and could  mislead other credit providers. It said its view was that, if the complaint  
were to be upheld, the agreement  should be marked as being  subject to a voluntary 
termination, or settled  in full and backdated to March 2018.
my findings
Ive considered once  again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for the detailed submissions  theyve  made  both prior to and following my 
provisional decision. Its clear that they both feel strongly about  their respective cases.
Having considered Lexs latest submissions  I dont think its core arguments  are materially  
different to the ones I considered in my provisional decision. However, there are some points 
I need to address.
the significance  of the information in the manual
Lex thought it odd that a person shopping around for a new car might  look at the manual, 
even if this was freely  available on the manufacturers website (as it was in this case). I dont  
think this is strange  some important information about cars may not be in the marketing 
literature (or not in much detail), and checking the manual appears to be a prudent  way of 
finding out more information  about things such as maintenance requirements and how 
features of the car work.
I also dont accept Lexs suggestion that its unreasonable to expect it to know  about 
information contained in the manual  of this car. Ultimately,  Lex is supplying the vehicle and 
is responsible for it being of satisfactory quality, so I think some level of knowledge is to be 
expected. It is also trading  under  the name of the manufacturer,  which in my view creates a 
heightened expectation of knowledge or expertise in the supplied product. Taking these 
factors into account, I think its fair to conclude that Lex could reasonably have  been  aware  
of the information in the manual  even if it was not actually aware of it.
Ref: DRN11528693That said,  on review I do accept theres a compelling argument that Mrs H could not have 
been influenced by the statements  in the manual. This is because I think, on balance,  shes  
unlikely to have  seen it before she decided to lease the car. In the circumstances I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  to allow the information in the manual to affect  what  is 
meant by satisfactory  quality in this case.
This doesnt of course mean that the car in this case is of satisfactory quality, or that a 
reasonable persons expectations of what constitutes this would be much diminished if they 
hadnt been influenced by the information  in the manual. This car was a brand-new, 
expensive model  from a prestige brand. I think this would lead to a reasonable person 
setting the bar relatively high for what  they would consider to be satisfactory quality.
cause of the DPF failures
Lexs main point remains that there is no fault with the car and the problems have been 
caused by the way Mrs H drives it. Its emphasised  the weight of evidence  which  points to 
this.
I concluded in my provisional decision  that some of Mrs Hs driving was not conducive  to 
regenerating the DPF, and some  of it was. I thought that the data provided by the 
manufacturer, in the form of averages, was not particularly helpful  in establishing Mrs Hs 
driving patterns.  In the end, I said Mrs Hs account of her driving habits  had been  consistent 
throughout the time shed  had the vehicle and I was inclined to accept it. While I appreciate 
Lexs points about  the fallibility of human memory,  my conclusions  on this point havent 
changed. Mrs H seems  to have given a balanced description of her driving patterns and 
routine, and these  are in line with what I would expect for a family with several children. I 
think it is unlikely she is misremembering this. 
I agree  with Lex that inspections have not found an underlying mechanical cause of the DPF 
becoming blocked on the various occasions  when this has happened, and as such  any 
evidence of an underlying fault is necessarily circumstantial.  
That said,  I do find the circumstantial  evidence in this case persuasive.  I find it strange that 
the manufacturer and Lex have given revised instructions on several  occasions,  as to what  
actions are necessary  to keep the DPF unblocked. As I said in my provisional decision, the 
type of driving  required and length of journey appears to have changed each time, with the 
driving needed becoming more aggressive  and the journeys needing to be for a longer 
period of time. 
Im also unable to ignore  how rapidly  the DPF has become blocked. I dont intend to go over 
the full sequence of events again  as these  are set out in my provisional  decision, but it is 
worth restating that the warning light indicating the DPF was almost blocked came  on just 
two days after the vehicle was delivered.  The DPF then failed 11 days  after delivery;  then 
again 22 days after being repaired the first time;  37 days after being  repaired (by 
replacement) the second time and then around  three and a half months after the last repair. 
This was, at the time,  a brand-new car. And I dont think a reasonable person would 
conclude failures  occurring this quickly were either acceptable, or must have been the result 
of the way the car had been driven.  I think  its more likely a reasonable person would 
conclude the car was not of satisfactory  quality due to an underlying fault.
Ref: DRN11528694The document from the manufacturer which Mrs H has referred to is one of several which  I 
have discovered  over the course of my review of her complaint. And it is not the only one 
which suggests there are, or have been,  problems with the DPF or related systems on her 
model of car. One such document indicates some DPFs  fitted  to cars were indeed  
problematic and needed to be replaced, and another document  says DPF regeneration on 
this particular model of car takes  longer and uses  more diesel than expected.
Ive shared these  documents with Lex already  and its said it thinks  they are not relevant  to 
the outcome of the complaint. I dont share this view. Without explicitly saying  so, the 
manufacturers documents  suggest there could be underlying problems with the DPF, or 
related systems, on Mrs Hs specific model  of car. The comments  in the document about 
regeneration taking longer  than expected also appear to be consistent  with the amended  
instructions the manufacturer  and Lex have given Mrs H on how she should drive the car to 
avoid problems. 
Taking into account all of this circumstantial evidence, I think  it is more  likely than not that 
Mrs Hs car had an underlying fault or defect  when it was supplied to her, which means  it 
was not of satisfactory quality. As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mrs H has given 
Lex an opportunity to repair this problem but a lasting solution has not been  found. Taking 
into account Mrs Hs rights  under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015, but also whats fair and 
reasonable, I remain of the view that she was entitled to reject the car in March 2018 when 
the DPF failed  after Lex had been given  that opportunity to repair it.
redress
As I mentioned above, Lex has said it doesnt think the lease agreement should  be removed 
from Mrs Hs credit  file. It has said this wouldnt  accurately reflect  what  has happened  and 
could have a negative impact on Mrs H. 
It doesnt appear, to the best of my knowledge,  that Mrs Hs exact situation is something 
which can be recorded on a credit file. Thats to say there is no way precisely to reflect that a 
lease agreement has been ended due to the goods  being of unsatisfactory  quality. So any 
solution here is going to be imperfect.
I appreciate Lex has advanced  some  alternative proposals. Its suggested they may in some  
way be more beneficial  to Mrs H than removing the agreement, but it hasnt  explained why it 
thinks this is. And ultimately,  Im required to make a decision based  on what  I consider to be 
fair and reasonable. I think its fairest to remove the agreement from the credit file, thus 
putting Mrs H in a position  where  the agreement has no impact on it in the future. This 
should prevent  potential  future disputes  over the impact of alternative  ways of recording 
what has happened, and would allow Mrs H to apply for car finance in future  without having  
to worry about  whether  her former agreement with Lex may have a bearing on her 
application. 
Ref: DRN11528695putting things right
I remain of the view that Mrs H was entitled to reject the car from 9 March 2018. In view of 
this, and everything Ive said in this decision and my attached  provisional  decision, I direct 
Lex to:
 Arrange for the car to be collected  from Mrs H at no cost to her.
 Cancel the lease agreement, end Mrs Hs liability for outstanding or future lease 
payments, and refund any lease payments Mrs H has paid from 9 March 2018  
onwards. 8% simple  interest* per year should  be added to the refunded 
payments from the date Mrs H paid them  to the date the refund is made.
 Provide a pro-rata refund of the initial rental, calculated  from 9 March 2018  (this 
payment was effectively  spread  across  the whole agreement to reduce Mrs Hs 
monthly payments). 8% simple interest*  per year should be added to this refund 
and calculated from 9 March 2018  to the date the refund is made.
 Reimburse Mrs H for the cost of getting the car inspected by an independent 
garage in October 2018. 8% simple  interest* per year should be added to this 
amount from the date Mrs H paid it to the date the refund  is made.
 Pay Mrs H £250 to reflect the fact her enjoyment  and normal  use of the vehicle 
was impacted by the problems she experienced while it was on the road.
 Pay Mrs H £500 to reflect the inconvenience caused to her by being  without  a 
suitable car after the car broke down in March 2018, and the distress caused by 
Lexs position that she was to blame for the problems she experienced with the 
car.
 Remove any information relating to the lease agreement from Mrs Hs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Lex to take tax off this interest.  Lex must give Mrs H 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mrs H asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint and direct Lex Autolease Limited to take the actions  outlined  in the 
putting things right  section above.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11528696COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs H complains a car she leased from Lex Autolease Limited (Lex) is defective.
background
Mrs H entered a regulated  lease agreement with Lex in June 2017 for a new diesel-engined car. 
Under the agreement Mrs H was to pay an initial rental of £1,330.20, followed by 35 monthly 
payments of £443.40,  and was permitted to drive the car 6,000 miles per year.
The car was delivered to Mrs H on 7 September 2017, and I understand it was driven  to her 
address around  100 miles from the supplying  dealership. Unfortunately,  Mrs H says she began to 
have problems  with the car two days after taking delivery, when an amber warning light appeared  
on the dashboard. Mrs H says this indicated the diesel  particulate  filter (DPF) was almost full, and 
instructed her to drive the car at 40mph  or more  for 20 minutes. Mrs H says she followed  these 
instructions and the warning  light disappeared.
Mrs H has said the same  warning light went on and off several times until
18 September 2017, when a red light appeared in its place which said the DPF was full and she 
needed to visit a dealership.  The dealership carried out what is known  as a forced  regeneration 
on the DPF to clear  it, and the car was returned to Mrs H around 26 September  2017.
I dont intend to relate in great  detail  the subsequent series of events but, to summarise,  Mrs H 
experienced the same pattern of problems  with the car for the next six months.  An amber warning 
light would appear, which she says would clear after following  the dashboard  instructions, followed 
eventually by a red warning  light and a visit to the dealership. Its disputed  exactly how many times  
the car was returned to the dealership with the same  symptoms, but its agreed that this happened 
on at least three occasions:  17 October 2017, 23 November 2017 and 10 March  2018.  On the 
October and November visits the DPF was replaced at no cost to Mrs H, but on the last visit the 
dealership and manufacturer said it wouldnt replace it again for free as it believed  the problem  was 
being caused  by the way Mrs H was driving the car.
At around the same  time the car went into the dealership in November  2017,  Mrs H complained to 
Lex about the problems  she was having with the vehicle. Mrs H asked for it to be replaced with a 
non-defective model of the same specification, along with a refund to cover the time she had been 
without the car.
Lex sent out an independent engineer  who carried  out a road-test in January  2018, after the DPF 
had been replaced for a second time.  The engineer said he could  find no fault with the vehicle  and 
it could be returned  to service.
Ultimately, Lex did not uphold Mrs Hs complaint, which  she then referred to this service for an 
independent assessment  in March 2018, after her most recent problems with the DPF.  By this point 
Mrs H said that she wanted to cancel the lease agreement and return the car, rather  than receive a 
replacement. And as the car has remained  unrepaired and not drivable,  during the course of our 
investigations Mrs H has traded in a smaller car owned by her family for a larger vehicle  more  
suitable for transporting herself  and her children.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. In her most recent assessment,  she gave her 
view that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld  because the car was defective. She made  the 
following recommendations:
the lease agreement should  be cancelled  and the car returned  to Lex at no cost to
Mrs H
Ref: DRN11528697Lex should refund  the initial rental repayment and monthly repayments made to the car 
from March 2018  to date
Lex should reimburse Mrs H for the cost of getting the car inspected by an 
independent garage
Lex should pay £500 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs H by the 
defective car and allegations  made by Lex about  her being at fault for the problems  shed 
experienced
Lex should pay £500 compensation  for Mrs H having had only impaired use of the car 
while it was in her possession
Mrs H accepted these findings and recommendations, but Lex did not. It said it had consulted  with 
the manufacturer and it was still of the opinion that the way Mrs H drove the car had been the cause 
of the problems, rather than any kind of defect with the vehicle itself.
As no agreement  could be reached between the parties, the case  has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  provisionally  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Mrs H has entered with Lex falls into the category of a contract to supply goods  
under the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015 (CRA).  The relevant effect  of the CRA for the purposes of 
this complaint is that Lex, as the company supplying  the vehicle, has a duty to ensure it is of 
satisfactory quality at the point of it being supplied to Mrs H.
Satisfactory quality means the standard a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory, taking 
into account  any description of the goods, the price  paid,  and any other relevant  circumstances. 
Other relevant circumstances include any public  statement about  the specific characteristics of 
the goods  made by the trader, the producer or any representative of the trader  or producer. The 
CRA goes on to qualify this by saying that such a public  statement is not relevant  if it could not 
have influenced a persons decision to acquire the goods.
If the vehicle  in this case  was not of satisfactory  quality  when it was supplied to her, then Mrs H has 
certain rights under the CRA. These include the right  from 31 days after delivery   to reject the 
vehicle and treat the lease agreement  as though it is at an end, so long as she has given Lex an 
opportunity to repair or replace it, and Lex has failed  to do so.
Mrs H asked Lex to replace the car when she first complained to it in November 2017  but it 
refused to do so  although  it did (via the dealership)  attempt a repair. This means that if the car is 
not of satisfactory quality  now then she does have  the right to reject it and end her lease  agreement. 
The key question I have to consider in this case then, is whether or not the car is of satisfactory  
quality and whether it would be fair and reasonable  for Mrs H to be allowed to reject the car.
Both parties agree that the DPF on the car has become blocked on multiple occasions and that 
the component currently requires replacement  again. Where they differ  is on why and how the 
DPF has ended up in this condition  on multiple occasions.
Mrs H says, essentially, that there is something wrong  with either  the cars DPF itself, or 
something related  to it, which is causing it to become  blocked so quickly. Lex says Mrs Hs 
pattern of driving has caused the blockages and theres nothing wrong with the DPF or related  
systems.
the DPF
Ref: DRN11528698A DPF is part of a diesel-powered vehicles system for managing the level of emissions  released 
into the atmosphere through the exhaust;  it captures soot to prevent it from being emitted from the 
car. Like any filter, a DPF will over time become  clogged  with the particles it is designed to capture. 
To prevent this from happening, a DPF is designed  to automatically undergo regeneration   a 
process where the soot is burned  off.
This process  can occur passively, where  a car is driven in such  a way that the DPF becomes  hot 
enough to burn off the soot, or actively, where the cars engine management systems  increase the 
DPF temperature to the right point  so that this burning can occur.  I understand Mrs Hs car achieves 
this by allowing unburnt diesel  to enter the DPF where  it causes  a reaction which raises the 
temperature.
Mrs Hs pattern of driving
Lex and the manufacturer say that Mrs Hs driving pattern  means the car is unable  to complete the 
regeneration process and this is causing the DPF to become blocked.  Theyve provided data from 
the cars engine management system which  they say supports their point of view. This data, they 
say, shows Mrs H makes  a lot of short journeys  at low speeds and low rpm, and she often turns the 
engine off before the DPF has finished regenerating.
Mrs H disputes this. She says she accepts she uses the car for quite a few short  journeys, but 
drives it on the motorway at least once a week on a long journey  and has followed the 
instructions on the dashboard and in the manual when the amber DPF light appears. She has 
indicated that its unreasonable to expect her to have  to do more than this. Mrs H also says she 
had previously had another diesel car from Lex, which shed driven in the same way without any 
problems, and the various diesel courtesy cars of the same model shed had while  her car was at 
the dealership  have  not had DPF issues.
I note the data provided by the manufacturer is in the form of averages  for example it says the 
average length of journey in the car has been 10 minutes over the last 9 DPF regeneration 
attempts, and that this isnt long enough  to allow regeneration to complete. While I dont doubt this 
data, I feel its of limited usefulness here. It doesnt show that Mrs H doesnt  take the weekly 
motorway journeys  she claims, or that she drives  slowly all the time  as the figures provided  are 
just averages. Having  reviewed the history  of Mrs Hs contact with Lex, the manufacturer  and 
ourselves, I think shes been  consistent in her description of her driving habits throughout.
It also doesnt seem  to be disputed that the car first showed symptoms of a blocked DPF only two 
days after Mrs H took delivery of it, and the DPF failed less than two weeks later. I think this is too 
soon to have been caused  just by Mrs Hs driving style. I also note that when problems with the DPF 
have reoccurred after repairs, this has tended to again be within a short period  of time.  This 
suggests to me that there is more likely  to be an underlying problem with the vehicle itself.
In light of the above Im inclined, on balance, to accept Mrs Hs account of her pattern of driving  
thats to say that some of her driving creates the correct conditions to regenerate  the DPF,  and 
some of it does not. But ultimately  Im not convinced that her driving style is the cause of the 
recurring problems.
information provided  by Lex and the manufacturer about  the DPF
Mrs H says shes followed  the instructions given by the car and the manual to maintain the DPF. 
Ive considered what the manual says, along  with other information given by Lex and the 
manufacturer to Mrs H and this service.
The manual says regeneration of the DPF should occur automatically  every 300km to 900km, and 
the process takes 10-20  minutes  between speeds of 37mph  and 70mph.  If the amber DPF light 
Ref: DRN11528699appears on the dashboard, the manual  says that driving at speeds  above 37mph  for 20 minutes 
should clean the filter.
Based on this, and Mrs Hs account of her driving,  it seems unlikely that she should  be having  
problems with the DPF.
When Mrs H complained, the manufacturer seems to have provided different information  about  
what she was required to do to keep the DPF unblocked. Some of this appears to have been 
verbal and difficult to verify, but there are also written records.
The manufacturer wrote  to Mrs H in April 2018 to say it took 20-30 minutes  to complete a
DPF regeneration, and Lex wrote to this service in November 2018 to say this process takes
30-40 minutes and needs to be done at high rpm. The manufacturer also informed Mrs H by email 
that it didnt matter if she went for a long drive weekly  because unless this drive happened  to 
coincide with an attempt by the car to regenerate the DPF, it wouldnt help to clean the filter.
Its not clear to me whether the comments by the manufacturer and Lex about the length of time it 
takes to regenerate  the DPF are about Mrs Hs particular car or this model in general. In any case, 
it appears they agree  it takes  longer  for Mrs Hs car to regenerate its DPF than is described in the 
manual. This manual can be found online  so would have been available  to Mrs H before  agreeing 
to acquire the car.
This is, in my view, significant. It seems that at the point Mrs H acquired or agreed to acquire the 
car, the manufacturer had stated the DPF regeneration process took 10-20 minutes at speeds of 
37mph or more. Later statements by the manufacturer and Lex indicate  that this is not the case and 
this process actually requires up to 40 minutes of driving  at high rpm.
As I explained earlier in this decision, the relevant circumstances relating to satisfactory quality  
include statements made by the producer (for example,  the manufacturer) about specific 
characteristics of the goods, so long as these statements  could have influenced the persons 
decision to acquire  them (even  if they did not actually  influence them).
Mrs H was looking for a vehicle for family use, primarily for short  journeys but with occasional 
longer drives, so I think statements made by the manufacturer regarding how long it would take 
to regenerate the DPF could have influenced her decision.
Considering all of the above, I dont  think Mrs Hs particular car can be said to be of satisfactory 
quality. This is a brand  new car and over six months its DPF has become blocked to the point of 
requiring replacement or forced regeneration on several  occasions, with the first failure occurring  
within days of delivery. While it may be true that Mrs Hs pattern  of driving  isnt always conducive 
to regenerating the DPF, it seems that this car takes  much longer to regenerate  its DPF than 
should be the case based on the information supplied by the manufacturer  prior to Mrs H 
acquiring it. I think its most likely this car had an underlying defect when  it was supplied to Mrs 
H, which is causing the DPF to fail.
There have been repeated attempts  to repair the car which have all been unsuccessful at achieving 
a long-term solution to the problem, so I think its unlikely that any further  attempts at repair will be 
successful. Bearing this in mind I think the fairest solution now is to allow Mrs H to reject the car 
from the point the DPF failed the last time in March  2018. Mrs H has not had use of the car since 
March 2018 and I think its therefore unreasonable to expect her to make the monthly lease  
payments since then.
Our investigator recommended Lex pay Mrs H £500 to reflect the fact shes had impaired use of the 
vehicle. I accept Mrs Hs use of the vehicle  while  it was on the road was disrupted due to her having 
to respond to the warning lights regularly, but I think a payment of £250 is a fairer reflection of the 
level of disruption she has described, such as having to respond to the DPF warning lights.
Ref: DRN115286910Our investigator also recommended  a further £500 compensation to reflect the trouble  and upset  
caused to Mrs H by the situation. Mrs H has been significantly inconvenienced  and was left 
without a suitable  car in working order  from March  2018, which meant she had to arrange for the 
other family car to be replaced and for various interim forms of transportation. I think the repeated 
problems with the car and the fact Lex has incorrectly said she was the cause of them,  has also 
caused Mrs H some  distress. £500 seems to be a fair amount of compensation  overall to reflect  
this.
putting things right
Mrs H was entitled  to reject the car from 9 March 2018 when the DPF became blocked again. 
So Im intending to direct Lex to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected from Mrs H at no cost to her.
Cancel the lease agreement, end Mrs Hs liability for outstanding or future  lease 
payments, and refund any lease payments Mrs H has paid from 9 March 2018 onwards. 
8% simple interest* per year should be added to the refunded payments from the date 
Mrs H paid them  to the date the refund is made.
Provide a pro-rata refund of the initial  rental, calculated from 9 March 2018 (this payment  
was effectively spread  across the whole agreement to reduce  Mrs Hs monthly payments). 
8% simple interest* per year should be added to this refund and calculated  from 9 March 
2018 to the date the refund is made.
Reimburse Mrs H for the cost of getting the car inspected by an independent garage in 
October 2018. 8% simple interest* per year should be added to this amount from the date 
Mrs H paid it to the date the refund is made.
Pay Mrs H £250 to reflect the fact her enjoyment and normal use of the vehicle  was 
impacted by the problems she experienced  while it was on the road.
Pay Mrs H £500 to reflect the inconvenience caused  to her by being without a suitable car 
after the car broke  down in March  2018, and the distress caused by Lexs position that 
she was to blame  for the problems she experienced with the car.
Remove any information  relating to the lease  agreement from Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lex to take tax off this interest. Lex must  give Mrs H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken off, if Mrs H asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I intend to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint and direct
Lex Autolease  Limited to take the actions outlined in the putting things right section above.
I now invite both parties  to the complaint to give me any comments, arguments or evidence they 
want me to consider by 19 March 2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1152869