K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr A is unhappy  with the actions of Standard Life Assurance Limited when 
distributing the benefits from two pension plans after he passed away.  The estate of Mr A 
wants Standard  Life to acknowledge its mistakes and pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
Mr As mother and sister, Mrs A and Ms A, are the representatives of the estate. Ms A has 
dealt with this complaint  throughout.  
background
Mr A had two pension plans with Standard  Life. Sadly, he passed  away suddenly  in May 
2017. Ms A spoke  to Standard Life shortly after this. It told her there  were  two pension  plans. 
One of these was an employers  pension  scheme. The benefits  of this plan were  payable to 
the estate. The benefits of the other plan were payable at the discretion of Standard Life. 
Ms A told Standard  Life that Mr A hadnt  made a will. She said that he had one financially 
dependent young son. The sons mother was Mr As ex-partner from a previous relationship  
 Ill call her EP. The son lived with EP. Ms A also told Standard  Life that Mrs A wanted to be 
considered as a beneficiary of the discretionary plan.  In mid-June 2017 Standard Life settled 
the discretionary plan.  It paid benefits of around  £22,300 via EP, to Mr As dependant  son. 
In early July 2017,  Ms A complained to Standard Life about  it discussing the other, non-
discretionary, employers  plan with EP. Ms A said Standard Life had no right to talk about 
this plan with anybody other  than the appointed person. She said its inference that the son, 
via EP, would be the sole beneficiary  of this plan had far reaching  consequences.  Ms A also 
said that Standard Lifes actions had now caused her to question how the discretionary plan 
had been paid out. 
Standard Life said it had done nothing  wrong in speaking to EP. It said Mr As son was his 
next of kin so, due to his age, EP had the legal  right to deal with matters  relating to the non-
discretionary plan on her sons  behalf.  Standard Life also said it was fair and reasonable to 
pay the benefits of the discretionary plan to Mr As son, via EP. But it did accept its handling 
of the settlement could have been better  and sent a cheque for £150  for the trouble and 
upset that had been caused. The benefit of the non-discretionary plan was paid to Mr As 
estate in February 2018. This was for around £15,500. 
Ms A wasnt happy with Standard Lifes response  and brought  the complaint to our service.  
Then, In July 2018, Ms A told us that the benefits  of the discretionary plan paid to EP had all 
been spent. She also said that Standard Life had promised  EP that the son would also get 
the benefit of the discretionary plan as well. When this didnt happen, Ms A said EP took 
various actions that have  had an enormous effect  on everybody concerned. 
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint. She thought  the £150 paid by Standard 
Life was a fair outcome. Ms A didnt agree. In summary, she said that Standard  Life made a 
huge mistake in discussing the non-discretionary plan with EP - this led EP to make various 
choices which have  caused upset and upheaval to the whole family. Ms A also questioned 
Standard Lifes  decision to pay the benefits of the discretionary plan to the son. 
As Ms A didnt accept the investigators opinion, this case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN15608312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
First, I want to point  out that Ive talked about  the personal domestic situation and the 
relationship between Mr As family and EP in a very general way. Ive done this deliberately  
to ensure they cant be identified. But I want to make it clear  Im completely  aware  of 
everything Ms A has told us about the issues with this relationship.  Ive fully considered all 
these details in reaching my decision.
I would also highlight that Im very aware  Ive summarised the situation in much less detail 
than Ms A, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I consider to be the key issues here  did Standard  Life do anything wrong in paying  the 
benefits of the discretionary  plan to the son, via EP; and, did it do anything wrong in 
speaking to her about the non-discretionary pension plan? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual point to be able to reach what  I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill first deal with Standard  Lifes decision  to pay the benefits of the discretionary plan to 
Mr As son, via EP. My starting point  is that the discretionary plan was just that  
discretionary. What  I need  to decide  is if Standard Life acted fairly and reasonably  when 
exercising its discretion. 
From the available evidence Im satisfied that Mr A hadnt completed an expression of wish 
form telling  Standard Life who he wanted  any death benefit to be paid to. Mr As estate 
hasnt claimed, or provided any evidence, that he completed an expression of wish. 
Standard Life has also said there  was no expression  of wish in place. 
So Ive looked  at what the terms and conditions for the plan say in these circumstances.  
Where there is no expression of wish, Standard Life has the discretion to pay the benefits to 
certain classes of beneficiaries. The relevant  classes here are: Mr As dependants; his 
parents and their children; and, his legal personal representatives. 
Its important to note here that in June 2017, when the benefit of this plan was paid, a grant 
of representation hadnt been issued. So, at the time, there  were  no legal personal 
representatives. Effectively, Standard  Life needed  to decide between  paying the benefit to 
Mr As son, his parents or sister, or a combination of them.  
When Ms A spoke to Standard Life on 8 May 2017 she told them Mr A had one son and 
there were no other children. It asked  her if Mr A had any financial dependants. She said his 
son was dependent, and Mr A had been  paying  maintenance for him. Ms A didnt mention 
anybody else as being financially dependent. Later  in the call Ms A said the benefits  of the 
plan were needed for funeral expenses  and to support Mr As son. 
In a later call Ms A told Standard Life she would like the benefits to be paid to her mother 
and then used  to pay maintenance for Mr As son until he reached his 18th birthday - with the 
rest being used  for funeral expenses. Later  in the call Ms A repeated that she wanted the 
Ref: DRN15608313benefit to go to her mother, Mrs A, to deal with the funeral expenses,  pay Mr As father  any 
costs he may have incurred, and for a lump  sum to be used to pay for the sons  upkeep.  
Again, there was no mention  of anybody else being  financially  dependent.  Standard Life 
made it clear  that it would make a note of her wishes  but the payment of the benefit was at 
the discretion  of the plan administrators. 
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it was everyones intention  that the 
benefit of this pension plan would  be used for the upkeep of Mr As son. While Standard Life 
knew that Ms A and her mother also wanted to use the benefit  for funeral expenses, it also 
knew the non-discretionary  plan was payable to Mr As estate and could be used for this 
purpose. Standard Life hadnt been told of any other financial dependants. So Im also 
satisfied that it was a fair and reasonable use of its discretion  when it decided  to pay all the 
benefit of the discretionary  plan to the only financial dependant it had been  told about. 
Ill now turn to Standard Life talking to EP about  the non-discretionary plan. Ms A says 
Standard Life has broken  data protection regulations by doing this. She also says that it 
shouldnt have sent an indemnity form to EP. Ms A told us the non-discretionary plan was 
always going to be paid to Mr As estate, and by law EP couldnt  be a legal  personal  
representative of the estate. But thats not quite  right. 
Ms A is correct  that EP couldnt  be a personal representative of the estate in the capacity of 
being Mr As ex-partner.  But that wasnt the only capacity that applied to EP. At the time, she 
was also the person  with parental  responsibility  for Mr As son. Acting in that capacity, EP 
did have the right to apply  for grant of representation to become  a legal personal 
representative of the estate. So I think it was both fair and reasonable for Standard Life to 
discuss all Mr As pensions with her. 
I know that both Mrs A and Ms A feel very strongly that Standard Life told EP that the son 
would be the beneficiary of the non-discretionary plan and when this didnt  happen she took 
the actions she did. But I dont agree that its fair and reasonable to hold Standard Life 
responsible for these.  
Standard Life says it cant see from its files that it told EP that her son would be a beneficiary 
under the non-discretionary plan.  Its not been  able to give us recordings of the calls to and 
from EP. But from the records its sent to us, and from Ms As version of events,  I think  its 
more likely than not that, at the very least, Standard Life did give EP the impression that her 
son would  benefit  from the plan. 
This is backed up by Standard Life sending EP an indemnity form. This was returned  fully 
completed by EP asking  for the benefits to be paid to her. But this doesnt mean Standard  
Life did anything wrong. As Ive said above,  as the person with parental responsibility  for 
Mr As next of kin, EP was entitled  to apply for a grant of representation. There  was nothing  
wrong with Standard Life sending the indemnity form to her. 
Also, as Mr A hadnt made a will, his estate would  normally  pass  to his next of kin. In the 
circumstances here,  the son was his next of kin. So I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Standard Life to think that the benefits  of the non-discretionary plan would end up with EP on 
behalf of her son. Irrespective of whether Standard Life did or didnt tell EP that her son 
might, or would benefit from the plan, in the circumstances  here,  I think  she would have 
always assumed this to be the case in any event. 
Ref: DRN15608314Its clear to me from what  Ms A has said, the relationship between Mr As family and EP is 
extremely difficult. I understand the very strained relationship has led to changes  in the 
familys domestic arrangements.  I have a great degree of sympathy  with Ms A, Mrs A and 
most importantly Mr As son, for this whole situation.  But its not possible for me to say with 
any certainty what might have happened if the events had been slightly different. 
For example, Ms A says that the sons inheritance has been squandered by EP. But if 
Standard Life had paid the discretionary plan benefit to Mrs A instead, which is what  Ms A 
asked it to do, that could also have led to EP taking the actions she did. 
Also, as Ive said above, I dont think Standard Life did anything  wrong  in the way it 
communicated with EP. In the circumstances here,  I cant fairly  and reasonably say that the 
family upheaval, and the trouble and upset this has caused, is down  to the actions  of 
Standard Life. 
Standard Life accepts it could have handled  the claim settlement better, such as wrongly 
sending Ms A an indemnity form. Its already sent a cheque  for £150 to Ms A for this. I think  
this is a fair amount for these issues. 
But I want to make it clear that this amount is for the inconvenience caused  by Standard 
Lifes administration. This is totally separate from the enormous amount of upset  and turmoil 
Mrs A, Ms A and the son have gone though. As Ive said,  Im satisfied  this wasnt caused  by 
Standard Life. Its a personal, family matter. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense that Im not asking 
Standard Life Assurance Limited to do, or pay, more than the £150 it has already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1560831