K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the level of questioning  by Lloyds Bank PLC during a fraud prevention 
call. Mr B says the nature of the questioning was intrusive and personal, going beyond  the 
bounds of their banking remit.
background
In November 2018 Mr B attempted to make a payment for £270.36 by faster payment using 
his Lloyds bank  account. The payment was stopped by Lloyds and Mr B was told he had to 
contact their fraud team in order to have the payment  released.
Mr B contacted the fraud  team and was asked a series of questions which resulted in the 
funds being released by Lloyds. Mr B says the nature of the questions asked were in-depth,  
personal and potentially very private  regarding the reasons for his payment. Mr B says these 
questions went beyond  what was necessary  to establish the validity  of his payment.
Lloyds say during  the phone call Mr B was asked  where he was making the payment to and 
what it was for. They say their fraud team often need to ask questions  of this nature when 
carrying out security checks to keep their customers accounts safe from fraudulent 
transactions. 
Our investigator looked into this and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. She said 
although the questions may be of a personal  nature, these are asked to verify the account 
holder and ensure the payment is genuine.  She also said it is up to Lloyds to decide how 
they conduct their security  checks and it is therefore  not our role to tell Lloyds how to do this.
Mr B disagrees with the investigator and the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is outlined in the terms and conditions of the account, should security  checks  be 
necessary, the bank  can stop or suspend the ability to make payments.
I am aware  Mr Bs specific concern  is with the nature  of the questions asked by the bank in 
order to have the payment released. I appreciate Mr B found these questions  to be personal 
and intrusive. However, I agree with the investigator  in that these are a level of security  put 
in place to protect  customers. This ultimately acts in a customers best interests to safeguard 
them against  fraud.
Mr B has made reference in his complaint to a previous occasion he was asked questions he 
found intrusive and unnecessary.  I can only consider the case he has complained  about  on 
this occasion and the merits  of the information  provided for this.
Lloyds say questions  relate to the information they have available to them, provided by 
agencies helping in their fight against  scams. Comparisons  are then made between the 
answers and information  available.
Ref: DRN11504842I find it reasonable in these circumstances Lloyds have asked these questions  and therefore  
dont find Lloyds have  done anything wrong.  It remains the responsibility of Lloyds to set out 
the level of questioning they deem appropriate to establish if a payment is fraudulent or not. I 
appreciate the point  that Mr B is making  and he should be able to use his account with a 
level of privacy. However, the questions asked on this occasion I find to be reasonable. 
There is no specific guidance  as to the questions  that should or shouldnt  be asked to 
establish the validity of a payment. I have  therefore  considered if Lloyds were reasonable 
and fair in these  circumstances; I find they were.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  28 March 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1150484