K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about three monthly premium PPI policies,  taken  out in connection  with 
mortgage advances  which Mr and Mrs H took out with Lloyds (trading at the time as 
Cheltenham and Gloucester Building Society).  The mortgage advances  were taken out in 
1983, 1991 and 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The 1983 advance
Lloyds records show that Mr and Mrs H took out their mortgage in 1983.  They  also show  
that a PPI policy was taken out in connection with the mortgage,  but its not clear when this 
happened. Mr and Mrs H say they werent  asked about PPI at any time during the process, 
and they didnt consent to it, or sign any paperwork for it.
Due to the time thats passed, Lloyds  no longer  has copies of any of the paperwork that 
Mr and Mrs H signed when they took out the mortgage.  Nor has it been able to provide us 
with details of how the PPI was sold, or of any PPI application. But I dont think  the fact that 
Lloyds no longer has this paperwork is surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago the 
mortgage started.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H have  provided a copy of a document  headed Acceptance  
of offer which relates to the 1983  advance. And I accept  that it makes  no reference to PPI. 
But even if the PPI was taken out at the same time as the original mortgage, I couldnt  
conclude, purely  from the fact that PPI wasnt mentioned  on this particular document, that 
Mr and Mrs H hadnt agreed  to it.
Mr and Mrs H have pointed out that Mr H was made redundant  a few months after the 
mortgage started.  They say that if theyd  known that they had PPI, theyd have made a claim 
at that point. And theyve argued that the fact that they didnt do so shows  that they werent 
aware that theyd  taken  out PPI. 
Ref: DRN12043042I can understand why Mr and Mrs H say that if theyd taken out PPI when they took out the 
mortgage, theyd  have remembered that they had the cover, and would have  made a claim 
when Mr H was made  redundant. But as our adjudicator  explained, we cant be sure when 
the PPI policy  was taken out. 
I accept that from what Mr and Mrs H have told us, there was a period  of several years in 
which Mr H was unemployed, and during that time,  Mrs H was working too few hours to be 
eligible for PPI. So I think  its unlikely, on balance, that the PPI would have been taken out 
during the period when  Mr H was unemployed, as neither Mr nor Mrs H would have been 
eligible for the cover. But its possible that the PPI was taken out after Mr H returned to work 
in 1989. So I cant conclude from the fact that Mr and Mrs H didnt claim when Mr H lost his 
job, that they didnt consent to the PPI.
Overall, from the very limited evidence I have, I cant fairly  conclude that its more likely than 
not that Mr and Mrs H didnt consent to the PPI.
Ive also considered whether the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H have told us Mr H would have been  entitled to unrestricted full sick pay for 
an unlimited period from the employer he joined in 1989. Weve  asked Mr and Mrs H for any 
evidence they have that Mr H was entitled to this level of sick pay. But they havent been 
able to provide  it. I can understand why thats the case. Mr H left the company many  years 
ago, and hes told us that it has since ceased trading. But unlimited full sick pay is very 
unusual. And without further  evidence to demonstrate that Mr H was entitled to such  
unusually generous sick pay, I cant  fairly conclude that Mr Hs sick pay entitlement was so 
generous as to make  the policy unsuitable  for him.
Its not fully clear whether the policy  was in Mr and Mrs Hs joint names, or in one of their 
sole names. Mr and Mrs H have  told us that after Mr H found employment  in 1989, Mrs H 
increased her working hours to more  than 16 hours  per week. And once that happened, 
shed have been eligible for the policy. I think its unlikely, on balance,  that the policy would 
have been set up in joint names  if Mrs H was working for less than 16 hours per week when 
it was sold. But even  if the policy was sold in or after 1989, at a point  when Mrs H was 
working for at least 16 hours per week, and even if it was in joint names, it doesnt look as if 
it would  have been unsuitable for Mrs H. Shes  told us that she wouldnt  have  been  entitled 
to any sick pay or redundancy pay from her employer. So I think  the policy could  have 
provided her with a useful  benefit  if shed been  off sick or lost her job.
Although Mr and Mrs H have told us they had some savings when they took the mortgage  
out in 1983, Ive borne in mind that theyd  chosen  to keep hold of those, rather than taking 
out a smaller mortgage. And the PPI would  have allowed them to continue to protect their 
savings if theyd made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Based on the very limited  information I have, I cant conclude, on balance,  that the policy 
was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H, or that theyd have  decided  not to take it if better 
information had been provided.  
I understand that its frustrating for Mr and Mrs H that Im having  to base my decision on 
such limited evidence. And I understand the points that theyve made. But Im satisfied that a 
PPI policy  was taken  out in connection with the 1983 advance. Its not clear when it was 
taken out. But I simply  dont have enough  evidence to decide  that its more  likely than not 
that it was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN12043043The 1991 advance
Lloyds records show that Mr and Mrs H took out a further advance  on their mortgage in 
1991. And a further PPI policy was taken  out in connection with that advance. Again, due to 
the passage of time, Lloyds hasnt been  able to provide us with any of the paperwork Mr and 
Mrs H signed, either  for the advance or for the PPI.
I cant be sure how the policy was sold, or whether  Lloyds recommended  it to Mr and Mrs H. 
But I cant fairly conclude,  based purely  on Mr and Mrs Hs recollection  of events that 
happened around 28 years ago, that Lloyds didnt make it clear to them  that the policy  was 
optional, or that they didnt agree to take it out. 
As Ive mentioned  above, Mr and Mrs H have told us that Mr H would have  been  entitled to 
full sick pay for an unlimited period. But for the reasons Ive set out above, without further  
evidence to demonstrate that Mr H was entitled  to such  unusually  generous  sick pay, I cant 
fairly conclude that Mr Hs sick pay entitlement was so generous  as to make the policy 
unsuitable.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H have  also queried  why theyd have taken  out PPI to cover 
the 1991 advance,  given that theyd  managed  to make their mortgage payments without 
having made a PPI claim for several  years after Mr H lost his job in 1983. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr H received from his employer. So 
Mr and Mrs H could have used those  to meet other  expenses. And I cant conclude,  purely  
from the fact that Mr and Mrs H may have previously managed  to pay their mortgage for an 
extended period  of unemployment, that they wouldnt  have  considered the protection offered 
by PPI as worth having.
Again, its not possible to be sure whether the policy was in sole or joint names. I think  its 
more likely than not that if Mrs H was working  for less than 16 hours  per week when the 
policy was taken out, the policy would  have been in Mr Hs sole name, as Mrs H wouldnt 
have been eligible for cover. If Mrs H was working  for at least 16 hours per week when the 
policy was taken out, its possible that it was in joint names. But given that Mrs H has told us 
that she wouldnt have  been entitled  to any sick pay or redundancy pay from her employer at 
the time,  I think the policy could have provided  her with a useful benefit if shed been off sick, 
or if shed  lost her job.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H have,  again, mentioned that they had savings. And they 
say these were bolstered by an inheritance.  But as Ive commented above, theyd chosen to 
keep hold of these savings, rather than taking  out a smaller  mortgage.  And the PPI would 
have enabled  them to continue to protect their savings if theyd made a successful claim.
Having considered the limited evidence available to me, I cant fairly  conclude that its more 
likely than not that the policy was mis-sold  to Mr and Mrs H.
The 1996 advance
The final PPI policy was taken out in connection with a further advance on Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage in 1996. Again, theres  not much  paperwork left from the time the mortgage and 
PPI were taken out. But we do have a copy of at least  part of Mr and Mrs Hs application for 
the further advance. It includes a section on C&G Payment Protection Plus (a form of PPI). 
There are boxes to tick to ask for a quotation for the advance being  applied for, or for that 
advance plus the applicants existing mortgage  accounts.  Neither box is ticked on Mr and 
Mrs Hs application form. 
Ref: DRN12043044Mr and Mrs H have argued  that this shows that they werent interested in taking PPI. And 
I accept that they didnt  choose to ask for a quotation when  they completed the form. But 
Lloyds internal records show that it spoke  to Mr and Mrs H on the phone  a week  after the 
date on their application for the further advance.  And the advance  was completed nearly two 
weeks after that. 
So although  Mr and Mrs H didnt tick the boxes for a PPI quote when they applied for the 
further advance, I dont  have enough evidence for me to conclude, on balance, that they 
didnt subsequently decide  to take PPI to cover their monthly payments.
The application for the further advance shows Mrs Hs occupation  as Housewife, so I think  
its likely  that the policy  was set up in Mr Hs name only. And although Mr and Mrs H had told 
us that Mr H would have been entitled to particularly generous employee benefits, I dont 
have strong  enough evidence  to conclude that the policy was unsuitable for him, for the 
reasons Ive set out above.
It may be, in the case of all three policies, that Lloyds could have given Mr and Mrs H clearer  
information about the cost of the policies. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr and Mrs H 
couldnt afford them. And its possible  that it didnt point out the main  things  the policies 
didnt cover (for example,  unusual working  arrangements, or existing medical conditions). 
But based  on what theyve told us about their circumstances when the policies were taken 
out, I think its unlikely  that Mr and Mrs H would have been affected by any of these.  So Im 
not convinced  that better  information would have put them off taking out the policies.
I appreciate that it will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H that I havent been able to uphold 
their complaint on the information we have.  But I dont  think its unreasonable that Lloyds 
has so little information about the policies, after so many years.  And based on the 
information that we do have, I cant fairly conclude that the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1204304