K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in with a credit 
card, in late December  2002. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold 
him PPI with the card.
To keep  things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover)  arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the case and said they didnt think  we should uphold  the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. 
They also said that although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything  wrong  in relation to the 
commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has since made  an offer to Mr T as if 
it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some of the cost - in relation to the 
commission element - was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ts representative  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. Ive also 
considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission, as mentioned  above.  Ive 
seen that Halifax  has made an offer in respect  this, and I too think  the offer to refund some 
of the cost to compensate for the commission element is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each  of these conclusions below. 
 
I think Halifax made it clear enough that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI if he didnt 
want to, however, he chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen the original credit 
agreement which he signed.  I note the yes option  to have PPI with the new card was 
selected and I can also see he was sent a letter confirming his PPI application a short 
Ref: DRN10693342time after this, in January 2003. If Mr T hadnt  agreed to the PPI in the first place, I dont 
think he would have  signed the form - and upon getting the letter,  I think  hed have been 
prompted to ask why such  a policy  was being  set up if he hadnt recalled consenting.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr T as part of an advised sale,  so it had to check that 
the PPI was right for him. In my view,  the evidence about Mr Ts circumstances  at the 
time, shows that the policy  wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For 
example, he was eligible for the cover and he didnt have  any other apparent  means to 
fall back on in the event of something unexpected happening, such as losing his job or 
being unable  to work. So I think the policy was suitable for him.
There was nothing  about Mr Ts employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions 
that would  have affected his ability to successfully claim.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been, but as Ive said, he chose to take it out so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt wrong for Mr T as Ive mentioned above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought  he was buying from the information he was 
likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable for him, so it seems like 
it would  have been useful if something went wrong.  I therefore  dont think Mr T would 
have declined the policy even if Halifax had done a better  job at explaining things.
While  the policy contained certain limitations  or exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mr Ts own circumstances  at the time of sale and 
despite these  limitations or exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. So I think  he would have still thought he had some good reasons to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I therefore consider that Mr T would  have still taken  out PPI. I think  the policy  
provided a useful benefit. I also think  the it was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought  
he was getting.  In those circumstances, I think  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event because the evidence shows it was something he wanted to have.
Mr Ts representative  has raised a number  of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Halifax should  have disclosed  the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
However, Mr Ts representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things carefully and how they might  apply in Mr Ts particular 
case. But the points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions  about  what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
Ref: DRN10693343non-disclosure of commission
As I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue  of non-disclosure  of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply   but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more  it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Ts representative  has made a number  of points about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on his complaint. In summary they said Mr T should  get back all the money  he paid for the 
policy because Halifax failed to tell him about  the high commission  and profit-share rates  
paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover.  Because  they 
say these things  meant  the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that Mr T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had he known about  the level of commission. His representative 
says he should  receive  a refund of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, Halifax  has shown us that the commission for Mr Ts PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Halifax  has worked  this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Ts case  was less 
than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about 
compensating consumers.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which require a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
So, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr T about  the commission levels  in this particular 
case. It follows that I dont  think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mr T unfairly.   This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr T back  
any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mr T some  of the cost of the 
PPI to compensate  Mr T as if it had treated him unfairly. I dont think it needs  to do anything  
more.
my decision
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014]  UKSC  61 in which the Supreme Court concluded that the non-disclosure of 
commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN10693344Having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide  what  is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set out 
above, I do not uphold the mis-sale  element of Mr Ts complaint or make any award in his 
favour. 
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. It should 
therefore now make arrangements to pay him, if it hasnt  done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1069334