K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr S says MBNA  Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
When Mr S applied  for the card, his application  offered  him the choice to take PPI or turn 
it down. At that point,  he didnt pick either option.  His credit  card then started without PPI. 
MBNA later spoke to Mr S on the phone  and sold him the policy. MBNA doesnt  have  a 
record of the call, which I think is understandable given how long ago it was. And Mr S 
doesnt remember buying PPI, which I also think is understandable for the same reason. 
Ive not seen any wider problems with MBNAs  sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence to show that MBNA added the PPI without  Mr Ss permission. And Mr S 
wouldve known he didnt  have  to take out the policy,  since  his card had already  started.  
So I think its most likely that MBNA  made it clear Mr S didnt have to take out PPI and 
that he chose  to take it at the time.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
It did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. And he didnt 
have any other  substantial cover in case he was off sick or lost his job. I understand 
Mr Ss family wouldve been  willing to help, but this card was his sole responsibility, and 
the policy meant he wouldnt have to ask his family to make his payments. So the policy 
would have been useful for Mr S if something went wrong.  And so I dont think better  
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But MBNA will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN19444682what the business needs  to do
MBNA has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. MBNA should also pay back to Mr S any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
MBNA should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mr S the difference between  
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. MBNA  should  also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr S.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  If it has already done this, then I do not award any 
further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1944468