K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that Scottish  Widows Limited wont honour a pension  fund value  for his 
pension pot which Scottish Widows said shortly afterwards was incorrect.  
Background
Mr L held a with-profits pension policy with Scottish Widows. 
In August  2018  Mr L contacted Scottish Widows concerning his retirement options in relation  
to his pension  pot. On 30 August 2018 Scottish Widows sent Mr L a quotation for an annuity  
income that showed his pension fund value as at that date as being £161,319. He was given 
the same  fund value  during a telephone call on 31 August 2018.
A week later Scottish Widows told Mr L that the actual value of his pension  fund was 
£98,760. 
Mr L complained to Scottish  Widows. He said the higher value should be honoured. 
In late September  2018 Scottish  Widows replied to the complaint. In light of the error,  
Scottish Widows  offered Mr L £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. But it couldnt  
agree to honour the higher value as it said he was never entitled to that amount. It said it 
understood he had contacted other annuity providers, and it could provide an email  
confirming the error  that he could provide to them if he wished. 
Mr L brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators investigated  the complaint. He said 
that in his view it shouldnt be upheld. He set out previous fund values provided  to Mr L and 
said it was reasonably clear from those  that the higher value given to Mr L wasnt  right.  
Because of that it wouldnt be fair to ask Scottish  Widows to honour it.  He  was satisfied that 
a mistake in the valuation  had been  made due to human  error.  As Mr L was made aware of 
the mistake within  seven days of being  issued an incorrect  valuation, he felt the award  of 
£200 for distress  and inconvenience was fair and reasonable and in line with what this 
service wouldve recommended. 
Mr L didnt agree. He queried how one could know whether  the values given by Scottish 
Widows in this and past years were  correct or incorrect. He didnt accept  that there was a 
human error. As a customer  he went by the last figures in the papers provided to him.
Our adjudicator provided Mr L with the information  he based his view on, including the 
explanation from Scottish  Widows of the human error. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with this, so the complaint  came to me for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mr L genuinely feels  he should 
receive the higher value he was quoted in late August. But Im afraid Im going to have to 
disappoint him, as Im not going to tell Scottish  Widows to do any more  than what  it has 
already offered. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN13786182Ive looked very carefully at the information provided to us by Scottish Widows, including  a 
possible explanation  of how the amount of £161,319 was calculated in error. Im satisfied  
that the value  given  was incorrect, and this was due to human error, as Scottish  Widows  
explained. The explanation given by it was as follows:
Ive had a look into this one.
It sounds to me like whoever has created  the triage tool  has input the transfer value
into the terminal  bonus section.
That wouldve added  up to the £161 k.
(Currently CV: 62736.23, TB: 36304.85 = TV: 99041.08)
If someone instead  added the CV + TV = 161777.31.
Mr Ls pension pot with Scottish Widows  was invested in units in its with-profits fund. CV 
refers to the cash value of those units as at the date the fund value  was calculated. TB refers  
to the terminal  (final) bonus as at that date. Adding  the CV and the TB gives the pension  
fund value as at that date. I can see from the explanation provided it looks like the cash 
value was counted twice  to arrive  at a value of over £161,000. I appreciate the amount in the 
explanation isnt identical to the value given to Mr L, but the pension  fund value  would need  
to include an amount for Scottish Widows fees.  Because of this, I think  that the explanation 
given by Scottish Widows as to why the pension fund value provided in late August 2018  is 
likely to be correct. 
Mr Ls annual pension  benefit statements do provide  an explanation of the number  of units  
held by Mr L, and the value  of his fund as at a certain date. I can see from the annual 
pension benefit  statement  that Mr L was provided with in June 2018 that on 5 April 2018 his 
pension fund value  was £93,739,  which included a cash value for the units of £61,966. I 
think this makes it even more likely that the correct value of Mr Ls fund in late August  was 
under £100,000, as otherwise the final bonus needed to achieve  a fund value in excess  of 
£161,000 would be nearly £100,  000. This is exceptionally unlikely given the previous fund 
values given to Mr L over the years.  And Mr Ls total fund value wouldve needed to have 
increased by around £67,000 between early April 2018 and late August 2018. I dont think 
that is at all likely. 
Mr L says he could  never know whether a fund value given by Scottish Widows was 
incorrect. Because of this Mr L says he is entitled to rely on the last figure given in writing by 
Scottish Widows, which was £161, 316. But I think the enormous increase in the fund value 
quoted between April and August 2018  shouldve raised a question in Mr Ls mind as to 
whether the amount quoted in August was correct.  
Scottish Widows  also didnt  say that the fund value indicated in the document  provided to 
him in late August 2018 was fixed.  The quotation provided to him on 30 August said the fund 
value indicated wasnt a guarantee. For that reason also I dont think Mr L is entitled to 
expect Scottish Widows  to pay him the higher amount. 
I understand Mr L is very disappointed that Scottish Widows wont give his pension  pot the 
higher value, but I dont think hes actually lost out. This is because he was never actually 
entitled to the higher amount, although  I understand Mr L doesnt  see it that way. 
What Mr L has experienced is considerable distress  and some inconvenience.  Ive no doubt 
it was very disappointing  indeed  to be told that the amount quoted to him was incorrect  and 
that the actual  figure at that date was much  lower. Mr L also says he spent time obtaining  
annuity quotes from other providers. Scottish Widows has offered  Mr L £200 for his distress  
Ref: DRN13786183and inconvenience.  Given that the mistake only lasted a week,  I think  £200  is fair, although I 
appreciate Mr L may not agree. . I can see that Scottish Widows has provided Mr L with a 
cheque for that amount, but its not clear  to me whether it can still be cashed, given the 
passage of time. 
Scottish Widows  has offered to provide Mr L with an email stating it made an error so that he 
can provide it to the other annuity  providers if he wishes. Mr L should contact Scottish  
Widows if he wishes to take it up on that offer. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Scottish Widows Limited  must pay Mr L £200  in total for his distress  
and inconvenience.  If the cheque already sent is not longer valid, it should  make other 
arrangements to pay Mr L the £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1378618