K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that St Andrews Insurance Plc, as the insurer,  should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to St Andrews as the seller  in 
my decision.
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a credit card that Miss B took out in 2005  
during a meeting. Miss B says St Andrews mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator  didnt 
uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
St Andrews  had to make  Miss B aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent 
before adding the policy to her card. Miss B told us she wasnt aware the PPI was optional. I 
cant say for certain what was said at the time the PPI was sold, but St Andrews has 
provided a copy of the available  paperwork. The application form Miss B signed  to take the 
card had the option to take the policy selected before the form was printed. I think  its most 
likely this option was selected during a conversation Miss B had with a representative where 
the decision to take the PPI was made. So based on this I think St Andrews made it clear 
that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose  to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
St Andrews  recommended the PPI to Miss B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her. Miss B has told us she was entitled to good  sick pay when she took the PPI and had 
some savings. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to Miss Bs sick pay, and for 
longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI would also have allowed Miss B to 
keep any savings she may have had in place to be used towards any other essential 
expenses she may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Bs circumstances at the time she wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means St Andrews doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
Ref: DRN17253582my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1725358