K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to open  a current  account for him.
background
In 2018 Mr Y applied  for an account with Barclays. The account was initially approved but 
was closed a few days later. Mr Y wasnt given a reason for the closure.
Mr Y opened  a credit card account and after some  time he applied  for a current account 
again. The application was declined. When Mr Y asked  Barclays  for an explanation it 
advised him to check his credit file and CIFAS to see if there were any adverse entries which  
might be affecting his application.  Mr Y says he did this.
Mr Y wants  Barclays to open an account for him.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Barclays had its own criteria which  it 
was allowed to apply  in deciding whether or not to open accounts and that there was no 
obligation on the bank to provide Mr Y with the reasons  for its decision.
Mr Y didnt agree. He wanted to know the reasons for Barclays decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Every bank has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding  whether to open  (or close) 
accounts. Banks are allowed to refuse  to open accounts and arent obliged to explain the 
reasons for refusal. 
A banks  decision not to open an account is legal, provided that it doesnt constitute  unlawful 
discrimination on the grounds of race, sex, disability,  sexuality or religion. Theres  no 
evidence to suggest that any of these factors are present  in this case.
I understand that Mr Y wants to know the reasons why hes been refused a bank account. 
But the bank is allowed  to keep its reasons confidential so Im unable to require Barclays  to 
provide this information to Mr Y.
I appreciate that Mr Y will be frustrated by my decision. But Im satisfied that the bank has 
acted fairly  and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1738691