K822xComplaint
Mr C is unhappy he stopped receiving interest on his 123 account, with Santander  UK Plc.  
background 
Mr C had a Santander  123 account, which paid interest at 3%, provided he met certain  
criteria. When taking  the account out, Mr C set up two direct  debits from the account,  which  
meant he would  qualify for the interest.  
In October  2016, Mr C noticed he was no longer being paid interest. He queried this with 
Santander, and it confirmed the interest was dependent on there being two active  direct  
debits on the account, and that one of the direct debits, to Bank  B, had expired in 
December 2015,  and the interest had stopped at that point. Santander said it couldnt  pay Mr 
C the interest from that point as it had done  nothing wrong and offered him £75 as a gesture  
of goodwill.    
Mr C was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He said the direct 
debit was set up as non-expiring.  As neither he nor Bank B had cancelled  it, Santander  must  
have, and this had caused  him to lose out on his interest.  
The case  was reviewed  by an investigator, who didnt think Santander  had done anything  
wrong. Mr C then requested the case be looked at by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id also like to apologise to Mr C for the 
time its taken to reach a conclusion on this case.   
Ive reviewed the paperwork associated with this account and can see the requirement for 
two active direct debits on the account.  There are other criteria,  and other potential  benefits,  
but they are not relevant to this complaint.  
The issues  occurred at the end of 2015,  when Santander identified  that Mr C was no longer 
due interest, as he did not have two active direct debits on the account. Mr C has said the 
direct debit was set up to continue indefinitely, and that Bank B did not cancel the direct 
debit, so he feels the problem must lie with Santander. 
I appreciate that at times  the explanations  that Mr C received about what  caused the direct 
debit to expire have been confusing.  So, Id like to explain what I think  is more likely that 
not to have happened here. I dont doubt that Mr C set up his direct debits as he has stated 
and did not cancel them. 
There are rules and guidelines around how businesses such as Santander should handle 
direct debits. One of these rules is that if a direct debit is dormant, i.e. non money drawing, it 
should be removed  after 13 months.  
Crucially, as Mr Cs direct  debit to Bank B, did not actually transfer money  from the account, 
it would  be considered dormant and would,  therefore, after a period of time be caught by this 
rule.
Ref: DRN11842322 
So, I think its most likely that when Mr C was told his direct debt had expired, what the 
business was trying to say was that it had been removed as part of Santanders general 
compliance with this rule on dormant  direct debits.   
Ive also seen a copies of Mr Cs statements for the relevant account, and I can see that on 
the account summaries  it does show what  benefits  have been  paid on the account and why. 
I can also see that later statements show no benefits have been paid and give details of the 
qualifying criteria.  
So, I think its fair to say that as the direct  debit was not drawing any money, under the direct 
debit rules Santander was obliged to remove it, so I cant say theyve done anything wrong 
there. I can also see that information about  the non-payment of interest was on Mr Cs bank  
statements.   
So, it follows  from this that I cant ask Santander to pay Mr C the interest he didnt get after 
the direct  debit was removed. I do think it could have explained things better  to Mr C when 
he complained,  and because of that it should pay Mr C the £75 offered in its final response.  
I know this outcome will be disappointing  for Mr C, but I hope he finds  the explanation for 
what happened helpful. 
my final decision
It is my final decision that Santander UK Plc should  pay Mr C the £75 it offered him in its 
final response, if it has not already  done  so. I make  no other  award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1184232