K821x#15complaint
This complaint arises from a mortgage Mr H and Mr S took out on the advice and 
recommendation of a broker representing Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd (Advance).  Mr H 
and Mr S, who are represented  here by a claims  management  company, say that the broker 
also gave them advice  on Stamp Duty Land  Tax (SDLT), which  turned out to be wrong.  As 
a result,  they ended  up with an SDLT bill that was around £30,000 more than theyd 
anticipated and budgeted  for. 
Mr H and Mr S had already exchanged contracts when they found out. They  had to increase 
the mortgage amount and cancel a holiday  to find the extra  money. They say if theyd known 
the true position, they wouldnt  have  bought  the new house.
background
Mr H and Mr S each  owned properties of their own; both were subject to mortgages.  A 
change in his work  situation meant  Mr S had moved  in with Mr H, and was renting out his 
property (which was owned jointly with a third party) to family members.  Then  Mr H and Mr S 
decided to buy a home  together, funding  it by selling Mr Hs property and using the equity,  
some savings, and a new joint mortgage to pay for it.
They approached Advance, and it arranged a mortgage of £610,000.  During  that transaction,  
they asked the broker  whether theyd need to pay the higher rate of SDLT (3%) that is 
payable on second  homes. The broker replied saying that hed checked  with a solicitor  and 
that higher SDLT wouldnt be due provided it was clear  that Mr S main residence  was 
Mr Hs current  home.  He recommended they put Mr S on the electoral roll at Mr Hs address 
and record it as the address for his bank account.  
Mr H and Mr S exchanged contracts on their new home in November 2017, but at a meeting 
with their solicitor the following month,  were told theyd need  to pay the higher rate of SDLT.  
Being contractually-bound to complete, Mr H and Mr S continued  with the purchase,  but they 
needed to find about £30,000  in time for completion  in January 2018. Their  lender was 
willing to increase the mortgage to £635,000, and they found the rest by cancelling  a holiday,  
but the interest rate on the revised  mortgage was higher.  This,  combined with the bigger 
loan, increased  their monthly payment to a level they say they arent comfortable with.
Advance didnt  uphold  the complaint; it said the broker wasnt acting as a tax advisor but just 
passing on information, and that it was up to Mr H and Mr S solicitor  to advise them  on the 
SDLT liability. When the complaint  came to us, our adjudicator recommended it be upheld.  
Her view was that the broker  gave the impression  he was giving advice on SDLT,  and if he 
wasnt, should have  made it clear  Mr H and Mr S should double  check with their solicitor. 
Because of that, it was reasonable for Mr H and Mr S to rely on what the broker had said 
without checking  elsewhere.
As far as redress was concerned, the adjudicator observed that it wouldnt  be possible to put 
Mr H and Mr S in the position  theyd be in if theyd not been misled;  theyd bought  the new 
house and sold Mr Hs previous property and that couldnt be unwound.  Instead,  she 
recommended Advance pay Mr H and Mr S a lump sum to cover the life-time interest theyll 
pay on the extra £25,000 they borrowed, plus £750 compensation for their time,  trouble and 
upset, and for having to use the money  theyd set aside for a holiday.
Ref: DRN15514462On the interest  part of the award, the adjudicator said Advance should  use the initial rate of 
1.99% for the duration of the product, and a representative rate of 2.5% thereafter.
Mr H and Mr S accepted the adjudicators  findings,  but Advance  asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
Advance says the case is becoming  more  complex.  I dont agree; I think this complaint is 
simpler than its been made to look. Whatever  the limits on the brokers remit should have 
been  and regardless of what areas any disclosure document said that remit did or didnt 
cover - Im satisfied  Mr H and Mr S were reasonably entitled to treat the brokers  email of 
26 October 2017 as advice on their SDLT liability. He didnt say this wasnt  his area of 
expertise; and he didnt say they needed  to get advice from their solicitor. He simply said 
hed checked  the position with his solicitor, and told them what he thought they should do to 
ensure they didnt pay the higher SDLT rate. 
Thered be no reason for Mr H and Mr S to ask elsewhere for advice on SDLT; as far as they 
were concerned, theyd  already asked and been told what  they needed  to know. In that 
context, Im afraid  Advance cannot evade  liability for the consequences of the brokers  
actions by saying  Mr H and Mr S should  have got the right advice from their solicitor; nor for 
any other reason,  for that matter. 
Advances broker was asked for guidance, and instead of saying it wasnt  his guidance to 
give, he gave it. Once he did that, the broker had a duty to ensure what  he told Mr H and 
Mr S was correct, failing which Advance was liable  for any adverse consequences  they 
might suffer.  
It also doesnt matter  whether Mr H and Mr S took the steps the broker recommended  or not. 
Thats because registering on the electoral roll and changing the address on a bank account 
arent actions that would allow Mr S to meet the test of Mr Hs property  being  his main 
residence under the rules on SDLT.
In the wider circumstances, I think the adjudicators recommended approach  to redress  
including the use of a 2.5% representative rate for the period after the initial  product ends  
to be appropriate  and fair. Advance hasnt mentioned it, but Ive thought  about  whether the 
lump sum should be discounted to reflect that its a payment now for losses  that will occur in 
the future.  Given  the uncertainty about  what rate Mr H and Mr S will actually pay after they 
leave the initial product,  Ive decided that no discounting will be necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I direct  Advance Mortgage  Funding Ltd to:
Ref: DRN15514463calculate and pay to Mr H and Mr S a lump sum equal  to the interest  theyd pay on a 
repayment mortgage of £25,000  over thirty years, at 1.99% for the first five years, and 
2.5% thereafter*, and
pay Mr H and Mr S £750 compensation.
* Advance  Mortgage Funding Ltd should provide a copy of its calculation  with the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1551446