K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement  financed by 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) was not of 
satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  the vehicle or for the repairs  to be carried out.
background
Mr A tells us he acquired the vehicle in October 2017 from a dealer Ill refer to as J. As he 
was away for a period after that he says didnt notice any faults until his return some weeks  
later. He says he reported damp  under the boot carpet and problems with the brakes feeling 
heavy. Additional faults relating to a noisy roof cycle, white  smoke upon  start-up,  and a chain  
and tappet rattle were also mentioned.
He says when  he reported the defects he was told to provide a report about the vehicles 
condition. He says he arranged for a report to be done, by S, a firm. He states this report  
advised there were  faults with the brake  pads and discs, which required replacing. Part of 
the offside front bodywork  had been  poorly repaired and with a different shade of paint. A 
scratch was reported  on the nearside  rear door and there were  nails in both rear tyres. 
BPF initially told us it had found  no evidence the vehicle was faulty  at the point  of sale, And it 
said there hadnt been a misrepresentation or breach  of contract. But it had reimbursed the 
costs of a vehicle inspection (£72) together with £75 goodwill payment relating to a delay  in 
dealing with the complaint  and service issues arising from a phone  call. Subsequently  BPF 
advised it would be prepared to pay for specified  repairs to the bodywork of Mr As vehicle. 
But it identified specific faults for which it did not accept it should he held responsible.  Ill 
refer to these items later in my decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 November  2018  indicating my 
intention to uphold  this complaint but only in part. Since then Ive had no reply  from BPF.  Mr 
A has responded accepting my provisional decision.  But hes asked me to consider whether 
it would  be fair for him to be supplied with a courtesy  car whilst his own vehicle is under 
repair - or for payments  on the agreement to be suspended.  
In those circumstances, whilst I see no reason to change my provisional view,  Ill deal with 
those issues in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr As concern about the various  faults  with the vehicle and Im sorry its 
caused him such inconvenience  in trying to get things remedied.
Whilst reviewing this case I noticed both Mr A and BPF had referred  to Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  I should explain I dont apply the law - but I do take it into 
account. As this is a conditional sale agreement, that legislation  would have no application  in 
reference to this agreement.
Ref: DRN13033462As theres  such a large amount of material I should  confirm to the parties that whilst Ive 
looked at everything  thats been provided - and taken it on board - I wont be referring to 
each individual  item separately. Only that which is required  to explain how Ive reached what  
I believe to be the correct outcome.
Under present  legislation BPF is responsible for the vehicle being of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. So if I thought there was something wrong with vehicle which meant it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality Id expect  BPF to do something about it. Although this does not 
apply to any defects  which  ought  to have  been apparent to Mr A when he inspected  the 
vehicle before supply.
Where facts are in dispute - as in this case - Im required  to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats not saying one party is definitely right and the other wrong. 
Its just my view on what is the more likely explanation of disputed  events.
Ive also seen three separate reports on the vehicles  condition. B, a company, did a vehicle 
appraisal on 30 June  2017 prior to Mr A acquiring the vehicle. The mileage at this time was 
reported as 33,717 (33,795  when Mr A was supplied  with the vehicle).
Bs report included  a mechanical  report,  including the brakes,  as well as a report on the 
exterior of the vehicle including bodywork and tyres. It advised of several  scratches to the 
bodywork as well as on the front and rear bumpers and front wheels. Other than these, there  
were no faults recorded.
S carried out an inspection of the vehicle on 7 December 2017 and reported  a scratch to the 
front offside  bodywork, which it said had been  poorly  repaired.  It also recorded the nearside 
rear door was scratched. It reported the brake pads needed replacing, front discs were worn  
and both rear tyres  had nails in them.
R, a company, inspected  the vehicle on 4 August 2018. It had been asked to inspect the 
brakes and the conditions  of the discs  and pads. And to inspect the bodywork for signs  of 
accident damage and repairs.
The report  concluded  the discs and pads are just within the recommended limits - but would 
probably need replacing shortly.
In terms of the bodywork, several issues  were  identified.  This included damage to the front 
bumper, which had been poorly  repaired,  as well as scratch damage to the offside below the 
bottom edge of the door along the entire length  of the vehicle. There were  other  more  
cosmetic faults with lacquer marks in evidence. The report also mentioned damage  to the 
left hand side behind the rear of passenger door to the sill that had penetrated the paintwork.
Fortunately it appears the required  repairs can be corrected and if properly  carried out wont 
affect the value  of the vehicle.
Its apparent from reading the reports there  are faults identified in the report of R which are 
not reflected in those of B or S. The most serious  being the penetrating damage  to the left 
hand side behind  the rear of the passenger door. I think if this had been  apparent  during the 
first two inspections it would have been  commented on. R suggests this may have occurred 
through the car being  driven off road and coming into contact  with uneven ground.
Ref: DRN13033463BPF refers me to a photo of what it believes is Mr As drive,  as depicted  in the photographs 
supplied with Rs report, and says this shows an uneven  surface  with protruding objects. It
says this is inconsistent  with Mr A saying  he hadnt driven over an uneven surface.
I dont think its necessary to speculate  how this part of the damage came about  - the 
important issue is when  it occurred. And as its not mentioned in either of the two earlier 
reports I think it unlikely both inspections  would have missed it. So on a balance of 
probabilities I think  its more likely to have occurred after 7 December rather  than have been 
present at the point of supply.
Ive also got to consider the damage that was referred to in Bs report. As this predated Mr 
As taking  possession of the vehicle, and Ive seen no evidence  of repairs between  those 
dates, I can reasonably say it was present  at the point of supply.
This was a three-year old vehicle with over 33,000  miles covered - and so its to be expected  
Mr A would be aware some signs of wear and tear were likely. I know  theres a dispute about  
the conditions  which Mr A says pertained at the time of supply - and which  he says 
prevented him from making a thorough inspection. But he was paying  in excess  of £30,000 
for this vehicle, so I think its likely he examined it - even if not as closely  as he may now 
wish he had.
And Ive looked  at a large number of photographs of the vehicle which the respective parties  
have provided. In some, the incidence  of damage is apparent  - but in others it is not clear. I 
cant replicate the same  conditions as at the time of supply, so I dont think  the photographs  
themselves are conclusive one way or the other.
The scratches identified  in Bs report were on the surface - and not underneath  the vehicle,  
as some of the issues identified later by R. So I think its more  probable  than not they were 
visible at the time of supply and an inspection ought to have  revealed  this.
So whilst Im intending to uphold this complaint in part, I accept it is not to the extent that Mr
A would wish. Ive set out the repairs I think BPF should pay for in the final decision.
I also recognise that, apart from the damage, Mr A has experienced distress and 
inconvenience - most  recently by an inspection agent not attending a pre-arranged meeting. 
Whilst BPF has already  made some payment of compensation and goodwill in respect  of 
issues which arose during  the earlier part of this complaint,  Im inclined to think  it would be 
fair and reasonable to recognise  the overall impact upon Mr A. Although as Im only 
upholding the complaint  in part, that must be reflected in the level of redress.
So taking into account the previous payments made,  I think BPF should  pay an additional 
£150 in respect  of the overall degree  of distress and inconvenience caused.  This would 
include the issue regarding the missed inspection  appointment.
Im aware Mr A considers it would be fair if he was provided with a courtesy car whilst 
repairs are done. Or alternatively for payments on the agreement to be suspended. Whilst I 
understand the points he is making I dont  think it would be appropriate  of me to make  any 
decision in relation these matters at this stage. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN13033464The issue  of whether or not a courtesy  car is supplied is a matter  for negotiation between  the 
customer and the repairer  and/ or BPF - unless its already covered by contractual  
arrangement. As far as Im aware its not been raised with BPF and at this late stage it 
wouldnt be fair to make  a decision on this issue  without giving BPF the chance to comment.  
That might open  up a new area of disagreement  and cause further substantial delay in the 
vehicle being  repaired.
Ive no idea how long the repairs might take - or if a suitable vehicle would be available at 
the time.  And as the timespan of the repairs is unknown I cant reasonably ask BPF to 
suspend payments for an unspecified period. Theres nothing to prevent Mr A discussing 
these issues with BPF. And if he considers its response to be unsatisfactory then its 
potentially open  to him to make a further complaint. But I would emphasise that his current  
complaint is only being  upheld in part.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint but only in part.
Im ordering  Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  trading  as Barclays  Partner Finance to:
Arrange and pay for the costs of repairs identified in Rs report  to the following items:
  Underside front bumper both sides and towards centre of the spoiler
  Poor bumper repair, right side
  Scuffs to rear bumper 
  Lacquer marks  on offside end of sill in front of the rear wheel and below the door
  Offside below level of bottom  edge of door,  damage along entire length of vehicle
  Offside under car on sill, scrape  mark that has penetrated topcoat 
  Lacquer scratches  and paintwork chips to upper  rear panel, left hand  side front wing,
   left-hand  side door mirror.
And pay £150 in additional compensation to Mr A for distress and inconvenience  caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1303346