K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs M. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  Bank  of Scotland sold 
Mrs M the policy at the same time that she applied for the card in a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs M and her representatives have said,  but Ive decided  the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. The 
PPI is presented as a choice, and there is a tick on her form to accept that choice. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs M, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mrs Ms employer sick 
pay lasted. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or 
redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs M more financially secure for longer; and she 
doesnt appear to have  had other  significant  means to fall back on, to help. So, 
overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I 
cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible 
the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs M  about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been   the information on the application form wasnt as good as it 
should have been,  although it gave the formula for working out the monthly  cost.  But 
I dont think, in her circumstances, full information about costs and benefits  would 
have affected  whether  she took the PPI. And it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN14770482Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1477048