K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim for malicious  
damage under his landlord home insurance policy.
background
In January 2017 Mr B realised his tenant had left the property without giving notice after 
missing a rental payment. When Mr B viewed  the property, he found some damage.  The 
tenant had had a dog living in the property and it had soiled  the carpets. There was also 
damage to walls. Many of Mr Bs items  such as a table,  lamps and mirrors  had been  stolen  
from the property.
Mr B made a claim for malicious damage. Ageas  agreed  to pay for the damage  to the walls 
and for the white goods under the buildings insurance section of the policy.  But it said Mr B 
didnt have contents insurance,  so some of the other  items claimed for were not covered. 
It also said the policy excluded damage caused by pets, so it wouldnt cover the damage to 
the carpets.  
Mr B later asked about a claim  for loss of rent, which hadnt been considered. He also said 
the tenant had taken  the keys and this hadnt  been  considered. Mr B thought his policy 
schedule showed  he did have contents insurance so he thought his belongings should be 
covered.
Ageas said it would pay loss of rent for two weeks. It said this was a reasonable amount of 
time to get the damage to the walls repaired.
Mr B complained to our service. He hadnt had a response from Ageas in relation to the 
replacement lock and damage that had later been found to a unit in the property. Our 
investigator said Mr B didnt have contents  insurance, so he couldnt ask Ageas to cover the 
items that had been stolen from the property. But he noted that Ageas had been slow in 
progressing the claim.  He thought repairs to the property had been delayed as a result. So 
he thought Ageas should pay Mr B for lost rent between the end of January and mid-June 
2017. 
Our investigator thought the outstanding elements to the claim, the new locks and the 
damage to an electrical unit should  be covered. He also thought Ageas should pay Mr B 
£300 to recognise  the poor service  he had received during the claim. 
Ageas accepted the recommendations made by the investigator.
Mr B agreed with most  of what our investigator said. But he said the property wasnt ready to 
rent out again until November 2017, so he should  receive a loss of rent payment from 
January to November  2017, rather than until June 2017.
As Mr B didnt agree  fully agree the matter has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator, Ive explained  why below.
Ref: DRN10692442As both parties have  accepted the recommendations of the investigator in relation to most 
items, this decision will focus on the outstanding issue of loss of rent. Mr B wants loss of rent 
to be paid from January  2017 to November 2017.
Mr Bs policy  says if his property is uninhabitable  as a result  of an insured event (which in 
this case is malicious damage) it will pay for loss of rent until the home is ready  to be lived 
in. The policy doesnt define when a property would be ready  to be lived in, so Ive 
considered what  this term is reasonably intended to mean.
Ive looked at the damage caused to Mr Bs property. The damage to the walls is covered as 
malicious damage under the policy. But there was more damage  than this, such  as the dog 
faeces and the issue of stolen items. The loss of rent section of the policy isnt intended to 
cover the time it would take Mr B to fix those issues, as they are not covered under the 
policy. So when considering the loss of rent Ageas should pay under  the policy, Im 
considering it in relation to the damage  to the walls caused by malicious damage. 
Mr B has a duty to mitigate his own loss, this means he needed to have taken steps to get 
his property into a state where it could be rented out as soon as possible.  Ageas has 
accepted it didnt make it clear to Mr B that he needed to do this. It only told him in at the end 
of May, when he asked  about loss of rent. So like our investigator  I think a loss of rent 
payment until 13 June 2017  is reasonable.  
But I dont think it needs to pay loss of rent until November 2017 when Mr B rented out the 
property. I appreciate some items were still to be settled in June, such  as replacement  locks 
as the tenant had taken  the keys.  But I think  it would have been reasonable for Mr B to take 
steps get the property in a position to be rented out. The malicious damage to the property 
that was covered by the policy was relatively minor. So even though  it hadnt  settled an 
outstanding item, Im not going to make Ageas pay any more money for this.
Both parties  have agreed to £300 as being reasonable compensation for the Ageas delays 
and the unnecessary inconvenience caused to Mr B. I see no reason to depart from this 
figure and having  looked  at the handling I think this is a fair amount  for the poor 
communication from Ageas. 
Ref: DRN10692443my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr B 
for the replacement locks  and the consumer  unit. It should also pay Mr B loss of rent from 25 
January  13 June  2017. It should  do this less any payments it had already made. It should 
add 8% simple interest to this figure from the date of the lost rental  payment  to the date of 
settlement.* 
Ageas Insurance Limited should also pay Mr B £300  to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused  if it hasnt already. 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Ageas Insurance  Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr B how much has been  taken  off. Ageas 
Insurance Limited should give Mr B a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1069244