K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Countrywide Principal Services Limited mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr L in 2005, in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr L if he couldnt work because of unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Countrywide gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Ls needs?
-Did Countrywide give Mr L the information  he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr L is worse  off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such  as not 
taking out the policy   if there hadnt been  any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr L says he was told the PPI was a compulsory part of his mortgage, and that he wasnt 
given a proper  choice. Ive noted  everything hes said, and Ive also reviewed the documents 
from the time the policy was sold.
It seems  Mr L completed a mortgage planning review with Countrywide, and that PPI was 
discussed as part of that review. Mr L was asked a number of questions  to work out whether 
he could repay his mortgage if he couldnt  work because of sickness or accident. He then 
received a mortgage illustration from Countrywide which  recommended  PPI in connection  
with redundancy  only. But there was nothing in that document to suggest that Mr L had to 
buy the PPI.
The key facts document for Mr Ls mortgage said You are not required  to buy any insurance 
through Countrywide Mortgage Services  Northern  Rock or Countrywide  Mortgage 
Ref: DRN11505952Services. The document went on to say that the only insurance Mr L had to have was 
buildings insurance.
From what  Ive seen, there  isnt anything to suggest  that buying  the PPI was a condition  of 
getting the mortgage. So without anything else to support what Mr L has told me, I havent 
been able to safely conclude that Countrywide  didnt make  him aware that the PPI was 
optional.
Countrywide accepts  that it advised Mr L to take out the policy  and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.  I say this because:
-Mr L was eligible  for the policy  given  his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.  
-It seems Mr L didnt have any other means  of covering his mortgage repayments  if he was 
made redundant.  So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr L in those  
circumstances. 
-Mr L wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits, such as those 
affecting self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing  medical conditions. As he could 
have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover I think it unlikely  Mr L needed better advice or 
information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-The mortgage illustration document set out the monthly cost of the PPI. So it seems  Mr L knew 
how much he would be paying  for the policy and found it acceptable.  The policy  was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit.  So I think  it unlikely Mr L would have made 
a different decision  if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Countrywide  gave  Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But as Ive already  said, Mr L wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr L would have made  a different 
decision if better information had been provided   overall,  I think he would still have taken out the 
policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1150595