K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc moved  her from a graduate current 
account to a select current account  a year early, and then also unfairly  revoked its decision 
to give her a graduate account for a further  two years. 
background
In 2012 Miss G began  studying at University. This meant she was eligible for a (largely)  fee 
free student account with an overdraft of up to £2,000.So she converted  her existing account 
with NatWest to a student account. The terms and conditions said that in the year a student 
graduated the student account would be converted to a graduate  account.  In the first year of 
the graduate account the fee free overdraft limit remained at £2,000  and in the second  year 
it reduced to £1,000 fee free. At the end of the two years, the account would revert  to a 
NatWest select current  account.  Normal  fees and charges,  including  interest on any 
overdraft, would apply.  
In 2015 Miss Gs account was switched to a graduate account.  But Miss G didnt graduate  
until 2016 so her account shouldve remained as a graduate student account until sometime  
that year. 
Miss G says that a year after she graduated she called NatWest to find out why she was 
being charged fees on her overdraft and was told the wrong graduation year had been  
recorded. She was asked  to take proof of graduation into a branch, where she says she was 
treated rudely.  She visited a branch again  around March 2018  and spoke to another 
customer service  agent. He arranged for her to have  a graduate account for two years  until 
2020, as compensation for the graduation year error. But he said she would need to contact  
the NatWest complaints team  to have any incorrect fees refunded.  
On 1 May 2018  NatWest responded to her complaint. It acknowledged  her graduation year 
hadnt been recorded on her account. It refunded interest and the arranged and unarranged 
overdraft usage  fees that had been charged in error. Miss G wanted  it to write off £500 of her 
overdraft but NatWest didnt think this was fair since shed had the use of the money. It 
confirmed her credit record was unaffected. £100  was paid into her account as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Finally, NatWest said that shed been misinformed by the branch staff member  that her 
account could  remain a graduate account until 2020.  This was not something NatWest  could  
agree to. It said that 30 days  prior to the end of the second year since her graduation it 
would give her 30 days notice that her account would revert to a select account  and from 
then on normal fees and interest would apply. 
Miss G complained to us. She didnt  think it was fair that NatWest had withdrawn the branch 
staff members decision to extend  her graduate  account until 2020. 
In mid-August 2018 our investigator  gave  his view. He didnt think  NatWest needed to do 
anything more. Miss G wasnt happy.  She still thought NatWest shouldnt be allowed to 
rescind the promise that she could have a student  account until 2020.  At the very least she 
should have a graduate  account  until September 2019, as shed only had three years of a 
student account and not four. Our investigator asked NatWest if it would be willing  to do this, 
but it wasnt. 
Ref: DRN11422112Miss G asked  for a decision  from an ombudsman.  She felt she was being penalised for 
complaining, and that if she hadnt, she would still have a graduate  account  until 2020. 
Miss G said shed been told that her account  was being transferred to a select account  from 
21 September 2018. She would have  to pay interest  from that date. She would  pay an 
extortionate amount of interest  that she had not budgeted for based on NatWests promise.  
And she only started employment  five weeks ago. She asked if NatWest could suspend  
charges until the ombudsman  decision. NatWest said it couldnt do that, but would refund 
them if incorrect. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss G feels  very strongly that it isnt right 
that NatWest has withdrawn its offer to give her a graduate account until 2020. Thats 
understandable. But Im afraid Ill have to disappoint her, as I agree with our investigator, for 
much the same reasons. 
Its taken longer than Id like to issue my decision and Im sorry for that. I asked for some 
more information  from NatWest, which took some  time to arrive.  I can see from the 
information provided by NatWest that Miss G paid off the overdraft in September  2018.  But I 
still need to issue  this decision.
Miss G says she didnt get a student account for four years,  but only for three, since she was 
moved to a graduate account  in 2015. That is technically  correct. But as our investigator 
said, by refunding all the fees and interest  it incorrectly charged, the bank put her in the 
position she should have been in if her account had been converted  to a graduate account in 
2016.
So in my view, once NatWest refunded the fees and interest, Miss G had in effect been 
given six years of fee and interest free banking (from 2012 to 2018). This was what  she was 
entitled to under the terms and conditions  of the student and graduate accounts. 
I also need to consider  is whether NatWest  should have to honour its staff members offer to 
extend Miss Gs graduate  account until 2020,  as Miss G wants. Miss G says she relied on 
this promise, and only had a very short  amount of time to come  up with the money to pay off 
the overdraft if she was to avoid interest.  
I understand what Miss G is saying.  But there  was only a pretty  short period of time  from 
sometime in March to 1 May 2018,  when Miss G thought that her graduate  account  would be 
extended until 2020. Before that Miss G would always have been  required to repay her 
overdraft by sometime in 2018 if she wished to avoid paying interest and charges. 
The expectation is that students  will get a job shortly after graduation and be in a positon to 
pay off part of the overdraft in each  year. So until the offer to extend her account was made 
in March 2018 Miss G wouldve expected to have to pay off the overdraft sometime  that year 
if she wished to avoid  interest and fees. Because of this, I cant agree she only had a short 
amount of time to come up with the money.  So I wont  be asking NatWest to give her a 
graduate account  until 2020. 
NatWest has paid Miss G £100 compensation for her trouble and inconvenience.  I think that 
is fair. So although it will disappoint Miss G, I wont be asking NatWest to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN11422113my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1142211