K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mrs B says 
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold to her with a credit  card.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs B has asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about being mis-sold the PPI.
Mrs B says she wasnt told much about  PPI and didnt know  it had been added  to her 
account. Lloyds  told us its computer records show Mrs B took out her card account in 
February 1999, which is obviously now almost 20 years ago. 
Perhaps not surprisingly after so long, Lloyds didnt have a copy  of Mrs Bs credit  card 
application form. But Ive seen an example of the form Lloyds says was probably used at 
the time and this did contain the option for applicants  to either agree to  or reject  PPI with 
their new credit card. This form is very similar to many  others  Ive seen and so I think  its 
more likely that Mrs B used one similar  and must have  made  a selection on it to say she 
wanted the PPI.
I say this because  theres  no dispute  that the PPI was added to her account. Mrs B says she 
had no idea it had, but I can see from copies of her monthly credit  card statements that PPI 
was being charged regularly.  I note these are referred to on the statements as Payments  
Insurance Premium and the costs were  shown. I think its likely that if Mrs B hadnt agreed 
to the PPI she would  have  wanted to know what the charges were  for. 
So in the absence of any other firm evidence,  from a sale that is now almost two decades  
old, I think this shows Mrs B is more likely to have asked for the PPI when she applied for 
her card and also known it had been set up for her.
Lloyds concedes it may have recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so this means 
it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mrs Bs situation.  I looked at her 
age, job, health  and general circumstances  to help me decide about  this. 
I think that Mrs B was eligible for the PPI and I dont think she would  have been  caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. The cost was around  £0.79 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Bs card. Ive seen nothing that suggests 
she would  have found these monthly charges unaffordable.
Mrs B told us she already  had some sickness protection  with her job and Ive thought 
carefully about this and all her circumstances, and any means she might  have  had at that 
time. But I havent seen  anything  that necessarily means the PPI wasnt suitable to Mrs B. In 
Ref: DRN16142032the event of a successful  claim for example, she wouldve been able to have  her outstanding 
balance reduced  by 10% each month  for up to 12 months. These  benefits  were  accessible in 
addition to any other means  she already  had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was probably suitable for her.
Lloyds also had to give Mrs B clear information.  After such  a long time I cant confirm  she 
was told everything she shouldve been  told. But for me to uphold  this complaint, Id need to 
think it was more likely that Mrs B didnt consent to the policy or there were other serious  
flaws in the way the policy  was sold. I simply dont have that evidence.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1614203