K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) wont  refund  multiple  
disputed transactions  made from his current account.
Background
Mr T is unhappy  Halifax wont  refund 167 disputed transactions that left his account between 
15 August 2017  and 31 May 2018  which he says he didnt  make or otherwise authorise 
himself.
Mr T is classed as disabled and is represented by his daughter,  Miss T, who I will refer to 
throughout this decision. Miss T has provided lots of detail about Mr Ts complaint which I 
have read in full, but for ease, I have set out a summary timeline  of events below.
timeline of events
In November 2013, Mr T received an inheritance payment of around £47,000 from his 
parents. The inheritance  payment was to help Mr T with his everyday living expenses as a 
disabled adult.
On 9 October 2017, whist Mr T was unwell in hospital, Miss T went into her local Halifax 
branch and expressed concerns that Mr Ts account  had been used fraudulently  by a family 
member and some other acquaintances of Mr T without his permission. Halifax  placed a 
block on Mr Ts account, but a fraud claim could not be raised  as Miss T did not have  Mr Ts 
authority to make decisions on his account on his behalf. 
On 11 October 2017, Mr T called Halifax to request a new card and PIN be sent out to him 
and the account unblocked.  Although  we dont have a recording of this call, Halifaxs  notes 
say that Mr T was taken  through security and was able to confirm some  of the previous 
debits on the account. And so, Halifax was satisfied  that it was speaking  to Mr T, who at the 
time, was still in hospital. A new card and PIN was sent to Mr Ts registered address.  Mr T is 
aware the account is blocked during this call but no fraudulent  transactions  are mentioned by 
him. 
Three months later, on 12 January 2018, Mr T called Halifax again. This time he told Halifax  
that he was unable to find his debit  card and requested a new one be sent out to him. Mr T 
said he wanted the same PIN number but a new card. Halifax has provided a recording of 
this call which I have listened to. Both Mr T and Miss T are present,  and both confirm  Mr T 
has lost his card somewhere in the house. Following this call, a new card is sent out to Mr T, 
again to his registered address. No fraudulent  transactions are mentioned by either Mr T or 
Miss T during this call. 
A further  seven months later, on 17 August 2018,  Miss T contacts Halifax again.  This time, 
she reports fraud on Mr Ts account and requests to raise  a fraud claim for a refund of the 
transactions in question. She does this with Mr Ts permission. Halifax  say they will 
investigate the alleged fraud  on Mr Ts account  but will only look at the last 13 months worth 
of transactions  as they are required  to under the terms and conditions  of Mr Ts account. 
Following its investigation,  Halifax declined to offer Mr T a refund as it thought  Mr T either  
authorised the transactions himself  or failed  to keep his debit card and PIN safe in line with 
the terms and conditions of his account  meaning  hed effectively  allowed a third party to 
use the account. 
Ref: DRN17513722What Mr T and Miss T have told us
Miss T has told us that Mr T is classed as a vulnerable  adult who has both mobility  and 
memory problems. She feels  he has been  abused by various different family members  and 
other members of his local community  who knowing about the inheritance  he received, 
have used his debit card without  his authorisation. She told us and Halifax that she first 
noticed something was wrong when she went through his bank statements in October  2017.  
At this point, she noticed his balance was much  lower than she wouldve expected. Miss T 
says she noticed  a number of transactions  that could not have  been  made  by Mr T, for 
example, some of the transactions had been made  online and Mr T could not use a 
computer. And so, she went into branch to report the fraud. At this point, Halifax  put a block  
on the account. Miss T wasnt able to raise  a fraud  claim  at the time as she didnt have the 
relevant authority to discuss her fathers account.
Miss T believes  family  members and others  had been entering Mr Ts property  and giving 
him alcohol and medication until he fell asleep. She then says they were taking his debit 
card without his permission and spending Mr Ts inheritance as if it was their own.  This 
resulted in Mr T being hospitalised in October 2017.  Miss T said both the police, the local 
council and social services were informed, and various  crime reference  numbers were 
provided by the police.
Miss T says Mr T would  often find his card in odd places  after a number of days  or it would 
be found by the front door by a neighbour. Miss T says when she realised what  was going 
on, she decided  to quit her job and move  in with her father and become his live-in carer - to 
protect him from future fraud.  Miss T says after she moved in, the people  who had previously 
abused Mr T could  no longer enter his home apart  from only one or two times that Mr T told 
us about. 
Miss T said before Mr T had been hospitalised,  he had been able to manage  his own 
finances. He only ever went to a couple of supermarkets  in the local area and always  kept 
receipts. He had always kept his bank card safe and he had never told anyone his PIN  not 
even her. Mr T did not have his PIN written down, he never used his card to shop online and 
he didnt give anyone  permission  to use his card or PIN. When Miss T called to report  the 
fraud in August 2018, she was able to identify what transactions  werent genuine as Mr T 
had a kept a receipt of all genuine  payments and shed been able to go through them  all and 
compare his receipts to his statements.  In total Miss T identified  167 transactions  that she 
could not account for.
Miss T says Halifax were  on notice from at least 9 October 2017, when she went into her 
local Halifax  branch  to discuss the account, that Mr T was a vulnerable adult  who had been 
the victim of fraud - but still they allowed hundreds of transactions to leave his account. 
Because of this, Halifax had failed to protect  Mr T as a vulnerable  person and failed in its 
safeguarding obligations.  For this reason, Miss T felt Halifax were liable to refund  Mr T all of 
the transactions that had left his account. 
What Halifax has said
Halifax said it wouldnt offer Mr T a refund of the disputed transactions  as it didnt feel the 
transactions were  fraudulent. It thought Mr T either made the transactions  himself or 
authorised someone  else to make the transactions  on his behalf. Halifax  said that even if a 
third party was involved in making  the transactions, Mr T would be considered negligent - 
as he mustve shared  his card and PIN with them to allow them  to do so.
Ref: DRN17513723In support of its arguments, Halifax said Mr T had three debit cards attached to his account 
during the period the transactions took place.  These  cards  had at least  two different PINs 
associated with them:
Card 1  activated  in September 2016  and cancelled October  2017  when Miss T went into 
her local Halifax branch.
Card 2  replaced  card 1 and was sent to Mr Ts registered address in October  2017 with an 
updated PIN.
Card 3  replaced  card 2 and was sent to Mr Ts registered address when he reported it lost 
in the house in January  2018. The PIN remained the same as card 2. 
Card 4  sent to Mr Ts registered address in August 2018  after further allegations of fraud 
were raised by both him and Miss T.
The disputed transactions had taken  place using cards 1, 2 and 3 and continued even after 
a new PIN had been issued on card 2. And so, whoever  made the transactions wouldve 
needed regular  access to Mr Ts cards during the period the transactions  took place. And 
whoever used the cards also knew Mr Ts original PIN and the later new PIN he requested   
there didnt  appear  to be any incorrect PIN attempts during the period the disputed  activity 
took place. Mr T, as part of his own testimony, said only he knew his PINs  and so it wouldnt 
have been possible  for anyone else to use the cards.  Halifax didnt think  it would be possible 
for someone  to have  simply  guessed two randomly generated PINs without any incorrect 
attempts beforehand. 
Halifax also pointed out that Miss T had first raised the issue  of fraud  when she went into her 
local branch on 9 October 2017.  But neither Mr T nor Miss T raised the issue of fraud  again  
until Miss T called Halifax on 17 August 2018  some 10 months later.  Halifax  spoke to Mr T 
twice during this period, once to unblock  his account on 11 October 2017 and again on 
12 January 2018  to order a new card. Mr T didnt mention fraud  on his account or any 
disputed transactions  during either of these calls. Halifax felt that had thousands of pounds 
been missing from Mr Ts account  and Mr T had been aware  of this in October  2017,  he 
wouldve raised this sooner  than he did and he would not have waited until all of his money 
had gone from his account. Halifax thought Mr T wouldve  mentioned this when he called 
them to order a new card.  
 
Halifax go on to state that the transactions do not fit the usual  pattern of fraud. Halifax 
consider that fraudsters  usually try and maximise the usage of the account in order  to get the 
greatest benefit  from the account  before the account  holder notices their funds are missing 
and the card is cancelled. But in this case,  the transactions happen  over a number of months 
and are for relatively small amounts  seemingly for day to day living  expenses. Also, there  
are genuine  transactions between the transactions that Mr T is now disputing - in some  
instances, within minutes of each  other.  And so, whoever was using the cards had regular 
access to them, sometimes within minutes of Mr T using them  for genuine  transactions.  And 
they were able to take the cards  and replace them over a period of many months. For these 
reasons Halifax thinks  Mr T either  made  the transactions himself or was negligent with his 
card and PIN.
Mr T didnt  agree with the decision made  by Halifax and he asked  us to investigate.
Ref: DRN17513724what our investigator said
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he thought it was 
fair that Halifax had only looked at the last 13 months of transactions  and he was unable  to 
conclude the transactions  had been made fraudulently. 
Our investigator also pointed out that he had contacted a number of the merchants the 
disputed transactions  had been made to and found that many of the purchases  appeared to 
have been made by Mr T or Miss T. He also spoke  to Mr T directly who was also able to 
confirm that some of the transactions were genuine. Mr T also said that he had shared his 
card and PIN with Miss T when he came  out of hospital, so she could withdraw cash for him 
whilst he was in the car - although he later changed  his mind about  this. I have listed  a 
number of the transactions the investigator  spoke to the merchants about  below:  
Transactions amounting to £5 and £19.98  on 22 August  2017   the retailer  confirmed 
both orders were  placed in Mr Ts name and were sent to his home address. In a 
conversation with our investigator, Mr T also said these were genuine payments and 
he was able to confirm what they were  for without prompt.
Transaction amounting to £259.99 on 1 December 2017  the retailer  confirmed the 
order was for a kitchen  appliance that was delivered to Mr Ts home address. In a 
conversation with our investigator, Mr T also said this was a genuine payment. Mr T 
also confirmed what the order  was for and that he had the appliance at home  with 
him. 
Transactions amounting to £22.98  on 12 December 2017 and £169.99 on 7 March 
2018  the merchant  confirmed Miss T went into the shop  and made transactions 
using Mr Ts card. The retailer spoke to Mr T on the phone beforehand  and he 
confirmed he was happy to authorise  the payments. During a conversation  with our 
investigator, Mr T also said these were  genuine transactions.
Transactions for legal  services made  on 15 November 2017  and 31 January 2018  
during a conversation with our investigator,  Mr T confirmed  these  to be genuine 
transactions.
Transaction amounting to £155  for court fees made on 22 February  2018   during a 
conversation with our investigator, Mr T confirmed these to be genuine transactions.
Transactions amounting to £50 made  on 27 October 2017 and £30 made  on 8 May 
2018 for experience vouchers  the retailer  confirmed that the orders were in 
Miss Ts name and had been  sent to her email  address. Miss T said she didnt 
recognise the transactions. 
Given what he had found, our investigator thought  Mr T had made at least some of the 
transactions himself  and had given his card and PIN to Miss T to authorise others.  Our 
investigator recognised  that Mr T may not have authorised  all of the transactions specifically 
himself but as Mr T had changed his mind about  which transactions  were  genuine and which 
werent, it would  now be impossible to tell which,  if any, where unauthorised.  And so, it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Halifax liable for them.
The investigator went on to say that even  if it was possible  to identify any unauthorised 
transactions, it did appear that Mr T had shared  his card and PIN and this meant he hadnt 
Ref: DRN17513725complied with the terms and conditions of his account. And so, our investigator didnt think  it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Halifax  liable  for the transactions now being disputed. 
As Mr T did not agree  with the investigators  opinion,  the case has now been passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as our investigator previously set out  
and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
the 13 month rule
The regulations relevant  to this case set out that a customer is only entitled to redress if they 
notify the bank  without  undue delay that fraud has taken place. This must  be no later than 
13 months after the transaction has debited their account - once theyve become aware of 
the transaction. This is sometimes called the 13 month rule. In this case, Halifax  doesnt 
think it should have  to look into any disputed transactions that took place more than 
13 months prior to Mr T reporting fraud on his account. 
Ive thought about whether it would  be fair and reasonable for Halifax to decline to look into 
any disputed transactions which debited Mr Ts account prior to July 2017. And Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions that specifically  applied to Mr Ts account. The terms and 
conditions say, except for direct debits, or payments made using an overdraft, we will not 
refund the payment if you tell us more than 13 months after it was made  that the payment 
was not made properly  or was unauthorised.  
I havent seen  any evidence that suggests there  were any exceptional  circumstances that 
took place that would have prevented  Mr T from disputing  these  transactions  earlier  than he 
did. Mr T has been clear in his submissions  that he was capable  of managing his finances 
and banking. This is also confirmed in a social care report written on 22 March  2018. And 
Mr T has been  clear in telling us that he always asked for receipts so he could keep his 
records up to date.  This suggests  to me that Mr T couldve  noticed  money  unexpectedly  
leaving his account  without his authorisation. And so, I havent seen any persuasive reasons 
as to why he did not dispute these transactions sooner than he eventually did. Based on 
everything Ive seen, I think its reasonable for Halifax to only look into the disputed  
transactions that left his account from July 2017 onwards.
the disputed transactions
Generally, Halifax can hold Mr T liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests  
its more likely than not he made  the transactions himself or he authorised  someone else to 
make the transactions on his behalf.  
Halifaxs technical information shows me that Mr Ts genuine cards and PINs were used to 
make the disputed transactions. But the regulations  relevant to this case say that this is not, 
Ref: DRN17513726on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold Mr T liable for them.  So, I also need  to think  
about whether  the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr T consented to the 
transactions being made or whether his card details were stolen from him. 
Im satisfied that Mr T did consent to the transactions he is now disputing.  Mr T has told us 
himself some of the transactions originally disputed were, in fact, genuine.  And so it wouldnt 
be fair for me to ask Halifax  to refund  Mr T for transactions he made himself and received 
goods for.
I appreciate that there are many  more transactions, other than the ones Ive referred to 
above, that Mr T continues to dispute.  But Im satisfied that its more  likely than not that these 
transactions were  also carried out by either Mr T or Miss T - with either Mr Ts express or 
implied consent. And Im satisfied its most likely Mr T shared his card and PIN. Ill explain 
why below. 
The transactions take place over a period of many  months - August 2017 to May 2018.  
Three different cards  are used to make the transactions and two different PINs. And there 
are undisputed transactions that take place between  the disputed  ones  sometimes within  
minutes of each other  which suggests to me that whoever was making  the transactions  
was with Mr T at the time. And whoever made  the transactions had regular access to Mr Ts 
original card,  and its later replacements, and was able to take it and then replace it on over 
one hundred separate occasions either  without Mr T noticing  or objecting. 
Its also clear  that whoever had access to the cards knew Mr Ts original PIN and the new 
PIN that was later requested. Transactions  happen across  all three  cards  using two separate 
PINs. And both Miss T and Mr T have told us that from, at least,  9 October  2017,  the people  
who had abused Mr T in the past were no longer able to visit his home.  I have not been told 
about anyone  other  than Mr T and Miss T having  regular access  to his property.  Miss T has 
told us and Mr Ts social care assessor that she spends 24 hours  a day with Mr T who needs 
constant care. And so, it would  be difficult for anyone other than Mr T and Miss T to have 
unfettered access to Mr Ts debit cards. 
In summary  the bank  can hold Mr T liable for the transactions if theres evidence he 
consented to them or if he shared his details  with a third party  to make transactions on his 
behalf. Having  taken into account the regularity of the transactions,  and the fact that they 
span over three separate  cards with two different PINS, I dont think its likely that a third 
party would have  had all of the opportunities needed to access  Mr Ts cards and PINs with 
such regularity. 
I also dont think its plausible that Mr T, knowing that fraud had taken place on his account  
since 9 October 2017, wouldnt have reported this to Halifax  sooner than he did - despite 
speaking to Halifax about his account on two separate  occasions before the fraud  claim is 
initiated some 10 months later. I think had the transactions been unexpected and not made 
by Mr T or Miss T, he wouldve reported  them much sooner  than he did. But during the calls 
Mr T has with Halifax, one of which Ive listed to a recording of, he doesnt raise  or even 
mention any concerns about fraud at all - and neither does Miss T who is speaking on the 
call with him. And I think that had thousands  of pounds been genuinely missing from his 
account, its likely he wouldve mentioned this during these calls. And so, Im unable  to 
conclude that Mr Ts details were stolen  by an unknown third party. Im persuaded its more 
likely than not Mr T shared his card details and the transactions were either made by him or 
Miss T  either with Mr Ts express or implied consent. And because of this, I think  its fair 
and reasonable for Halifax to hold him liable for them.
Ref: DRN17513727Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr T consented to the disputed  
transactions. It follows that Halifax is entitled  to hold him liable for them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1751372