K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
regular premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered both Mr 
and Mrs C for accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. I have also taken account  of the 
law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy was sold. 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Cs needs?
-Did Halifax  give Mr and Mrs C the information  they needed to decide  whether  to take out 
the policy?
If there were shortcomings  in the way Halifax sold the policy, I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs C are worse  off as a result; that is, whether they would have done something  
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs C during a meeting with an adviser  from Halifax, who was 
recommending a mortgage  and insurance  products. 
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs C and Halifax  when they 
were discussing  the mortgage  and PPI. And, given  the mortgage was repaid more than 15 
years ago I wouldnt expect either  party to have many records  of that meeting. Thats  
unfortunate, but hasnt prevented me from deciding this complaint based on the information 
and evidence we do have.
Mr and Mrs C says they dont recall the PPI being discussed  and thats understandable 
given it was so long ago. But from what we know about how Halifax sold policies like this at 
the time its more likely than not that Halifax made Mr and Mrs C aware that the PPI was 
optional and they chose to take it. 
Ref: DRN18122932Mr and Mrs C say that even if the policy was suitable for Mr C it wasnt  for Mrs C  because 
she had more generous work related benefits. And theyve also told us recently they had 
some savings they could  have  used if Mrs C was ill or made redundant.  Thats something 
they didnt tell Halifax when the complaint  was first made, when they simply said Mrs C 
would rely on Mr Cs income if she wasnt working.  Understandably  given how long ago 
this was  they havent sent us any supporting  evidence for the savings, which  they say 
were £3,000. 
Ive thought about the impact of any savings on the potential benefit the policy  might  have  
had for Mrs C. Ive also taken into account they were getting  a mortgage at the time  and 
that can lead to unforeseen expenses, which might have used up some  or all of the savings.
Im still satisfied the policy was suitable  given Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances and I say this 
because:
-Both Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the policy given  their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
-The policy was split in order to cover both Mr and Mrs C, and appears  to have been 
done so in line with their respective  earnings  at the time. That seems  appropriate  to me. 
-Mr C says he only got statutory sick pay if he was ill, whilst Mrs C had generous  benefits.  
But the policy would have paid out in addition to the occupational benefits  and would do 
so, it seems, for longer if any of the savings  had been used elsewhere. Overall I think Mr 
and Mrs C would have  had some use for the policy  despite their existing arrangements.
-Mr and Mrs C werent  affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys main benefits,  
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think  it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs C needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions  and 
limitations. 
-I dont know exactly when Mr and Mrs C were told the cost of the PPI  it may well have 
been in the original  meeting. But  even if Mr and Mrs C didnt know  the exact amount of 
the premium when they bought the policy  I think they might  have  known approximately  
what it was. Ultimately,  I think Mr and Mrs C were aware they had to pay something  for 
the policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest  it was unaffordable or that the benefit was 
insufficient to meet  their total monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible that some of the information  the bank gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it should have  been. But they chose  to take out the policy and so appear to have  
wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr and Mrs C werent  affected  by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr 
and Mrs C would have  made a different decision if better information had been  provided  
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN18122933my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1812293