K821x#15complaint
Mrs L says Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey national) mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ls complaint because:
Santander recommended  the policy to Mrs L but I dont think it was right for her. I say 
this because this policy, broadly speaking,  excluded  claims  because of pre-existing 
medical conditions  (PEMCs). 
Mrs L has told us and shown evidence in the form of medical notes that she had a PEMC 
at the time of sale. So she wouldnt  have  been  able to claim because of her PEMC.
I dont think Mrs L wouldve bought the policy if Santander had made clear it wasnt  right for 
her. So, I think Mrs L has lost out because of what Santander did wrong.  
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  it said about the PEMC in 
response to our adjudicators assessment. Santander stated; The essence of the 
documentary request is to confirm  that this condition  as indeed  pre-existing at the time of the 
policy sale.  Im satisfied  that the additional information provided  by Mrs L shows  that she 
did have a PEMC at the time of taking PPI. So I still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
Santander should put Mrs L in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mrs L the amount  she paid each  month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander  can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
Ref: DRN17544342 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mrs L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.  
Daniel OShea 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1754434