K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained to Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
about two over 50s life assurance plans. They are unhappy that they have not been 
provided with the full benefits that were offered when the plans were taken out.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out the two L&G plans on an execution only basis online and without 
advice. One of the features offered as part of the plans, was an additional  £300  death 
benefit on each  plan if they were  assigned to Dignity (a funeral service).
They subsequently found that they were not eligible to each receive the extra £300 cover, as 
they already had similar life plans assigned  to Dignity that had previously been taken out 
through another provider.
L&G explained the reason  the new plans couldnt  be assigned  was due to Dignitys policy  on 
the matter. It offered  to cancel the plans and refund the premiums paid and pay £100  
compensation to Mr and Mrs T for the trouble  theyve experienced, but they want  it to honour  
the extra £300 death benefit for their plans instead.
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and felt unable to uphold it. In summary he 
said that it wasnt L&Gs decision  not to allow the assignment of the plans to Dignity,  and so 
the offer it had made  to Mr and Mrs T was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint  afresh.  They 
explained that when they took out the plans online there was nothing  on L&Gs website to 
say the extra  cover wouldnt be available where  previous plans had been assigned to 
Dignity. They also said the plan terms and conditions never set out any such restriction. So 
they feel L&G should deliver the terms it contracted to when the plans were taken out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons.
I realise that its frustrating for Mr and Mrs T to have  found out that they have not got the full 
benefit they had thought they would receive from the plans.  L&G has acknowledged the 
website information  is not as clear  as it could be and will review what is explained in the 
online application.
So the key issue  for me to decide is what I think is a fair and reasonable way of L&G putting 
things right. The approach our Service takes in such circumstances, is to put consumers 
back into the position they would  have likely been in had the correct information  been 
provided.
I understand that Mr and Mrs T want L&G to ensure they receive the additional £300 death  
benefit in the event  of a claim on each of their plans. Whilst I recognise why this is what they 
want, and appreciate this is the benefit  they had purchased, I dont agree.
Ref: DRN10191892Had L&G set out further information on its website about the ability  to assign only one plan to 
Dignity, Mr and Mrs T would have likely  taken one of two actions. The first option is that they 
would have continued purchasing the plans knowing they wouldnt be eligible to receive  the 
additional death benefit. Given how strongly they feel about  this issue  now, I think its 
unlikely they would have done  that.
The second  option is that they would not have proceeded to purchase  the plans. I think this 
is the most  likely option, and means they would never have had the cover provided by the 
plans, but also would  not have paid any premiums as a result. This being the case, I believe 
that L&Gs offer to refund the premiums theyve  paid is fair in the circumstances. I realise 
that it has also caused Mr and Mrs T to experience disappointment and a loss of 
expectation, but Im satisfied thats reflected by the additional £100 compensation payment.
Overall, I cant say the offer made to put things  right made by L&G is unfair. I dont feel it 
would be right to ask it to honour the extra £300  death benefit on each plan,  as that isnt 
something which would ever have been available had Mr and Mrs T been  aware  of all the 
implications when they took out cover in the first place.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T are likely to be disappointed with my conclusion,  but I must assure  
them that Ive considered  everything afresh, and reached my decision impartially  based 
upon what I thinks fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint against  Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1019189