K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. Mrs N 
says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Mrs N took out both a Visa card and MasterCard  in 1995. Neither Lloyds nor Mrs N recall 
when PPI was added,  but Mrs N says she wouldnt have agreed  to have PPI so says Lloyds 
mis-sold her the policies.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs N didnt agree so the 
complaint had been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why:
Neither Lloyds nor Mrs N know how or when  she purchased the PPI. Lloyds has assumed 
that she bought the PPI policies at the same time as the credit cards which were opened in 
1995. But neither party have any paperwork from the time of sale.  Given  how long ago the 
policies were sold, its not unreasonable that there  is no evidence from the time of sale and 
its not surprising  Mrs N doesnt recall how she took them out.  But  where I have limited 
information about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely. 
Mrs N says she didnt know the PPI policies were optional. Lloyds says it wouldve made the 
optional nature of the PPI clear, and it wouldve asked for her consent before adding it to her 
accounts. I can see the PPI appeared on her credit card statements from 2000 (which is the 
earliest record of the PPI Lloyds has been  able to locate). But had Mrs N not agreed to take 
the PPI, I wouldve expected  her to have questioned what  these payments were for.  
While Ive thought  carefully about everything  Mrs N has said,  I have to bear in mind  that the 
PPI was sold at least  19 years ago, and even the best of memories  can fade over that time 
frame. So while I appreciate the strength of feeling  she has that the PPI was mis-sold, I dont 
think itd be reasonable to uphold a complaint solely based on limited recollections  from such 
a long time ago. 
Overall, with such little information available, I havent seen  enough to conclude that its 
more likely Lloyds didnt  make clear that Mrs N had a choice about  taking it or that she didnt 
agree to take the PPI. 
As there is so little information available in this case, its not clear if Lloyds advised Mrs N to 
take the PPI. Mrs N doesnt  think it did. If Lloyds did advise Mrs N to take the PPI, it places a 
higher responsibility  on it, as this means  Lloyds  had to check the PPI was right for her. And 
Lloyds has agreed  to hold itself to this higher standard  so Ive done  the same. But based  on 
what Ive seen of Mrs Ns circumstances  at the time, I think the PPI was right for her. So 
even if Lloyds did recommend the policies, I think the recommendations were  reasonable. 
Ref: DRN16100062Mrs N was eligible for the policies and she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. Mrs N also seems to have  had a need for the cover. Mrs N had six 
months full sick pay followed by 6 months half sick pay provided by her employer. She also 
said her parents couldve helped her had she found  herself unexpectedly out of work.  Mrs N 
adds that she had medical  insurance but the evidence she sent in shows  this was a life 
insurance policy. 
But her PPI couldve paid out on top of her sick pay for up to 12 months if Mrs N was unable 
to work because of illness or injury. It also couldve provided up to 12 months  of cover for 
unemployment. And while I have no doubt  her parents wouldve wanted to help her, their 
ability to help wouldve  depended on their own circumstances  at the time which  couldve 
changed. And life insurance doesnt  provide the same  type of cover as PPI. So, based on 
what Ive seen, I think the PPI couldve been  useful for her. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I havent seen enough  to conclude she didnt choose to take it. And it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019. 
 
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1610006