K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy (when Lloyds  was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester).
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy  covered Mrs P 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs P didnt agree. 
She said she didnt  need  the PPI because, in summary:
She had a high disposable  income and its likely that she wouldve been  able to save  
£10-12,000 annually.
She had at least four savings accounts  shes asked  the businesses  for evidence of 
what she had in 1997, but it will take some  time to provide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps complaint.
Lloyds doesnt  have a full record  of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so long 
ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint for the following reasons:
Lloyds says that a separate application  form and direct debit wouldve been completed for 
the PPI. Although this isnt available, I think it wouldve  been  reasonably  clear   from the 
need to complete and sign a separate application   that the PPI was optional.  Overall, I think  
it more likely than not that Lloyds made Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it.
The bank advised Mrs P to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Let me explain why.
Mrs P was eligible for the policy  given her circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mrs P says she didnt need the PPI because she wouldve been able to meet the mortgage 
payments if she was unable to work.  She wouldve received six months  sick pay from her 
employer. She cant recall how much she had in savings, and shes  had difficulty getting 
evidence from the businesses where  she thinks she had savings accounts. This isnt 
surprising given how long ago this all took place. 
Ref: DRN11212232But, during  the course of our investigation,  Mrs P has given us varying figures. She initially  
told the bank she had £500 and that this was ear-marked for a holiday. She told our 
adjudicator that, because  of her high disposable income and lack of other commitments, she 
wouldve had substantial  savings   enough  not to need the PPI. After thinking about  this a 
bit more, she said she feels sure she wouldve been able to save £10-12,000 in 1997  alone, 
equivalent to around six months net salary.  I accept this is possible.  But, Ive gone on to 
consider that part of the mortgage  was going  to be used to repay a loan to a family member  
of around £34,000.  If Mrs P was regularly saving £10,000 a year, I wouldnt have expected 
her to need to borrow money from her family  or at least  to be able to repay  it without the 
need to obtain a mortgage secured on her home. And, whilst part of the mortgage was to 
pay for home improvements, she was starting a project to convert two properties into one. 
So I think its possible that any savings  she did have  wouldve been earmarked  for this 
project.
The mortgage was a significant long term financial  commitment and Mrs Ps home was at 
risk if she didnt keep up with the repayments. The PPI would have paid out for up to 
12 months in the event  of a successful claim for accident or sickness.  So I think  the PPI 
couldve been a useful benefit, in addition to Mrs Ps existing arrangements. It would also 
have covered her if shed  become unemployed.
Ive taken into account that Mrs P did have some shares and that the family  member may 
have been prepared to lend her money again. But this doesnt make  a difference to my 
conclusion. Shares are generally medium to longer term investments and the PPI wouldve 
enabled her to continue to meet  her mortgage  payments  without the need to sell these 
assets. And borrowing money from a family member was not guaranteed.
Ive also taken into account that she got married a few months  after the mortgage was 
agreed and that she couldve  relied on her husbands income  to help pay any bills if she 
couldnt work. But the mortgage was in her sole name and its not clear what  other  financial  
commitments her husband had. So this doesnt  make a difference  to my conclusion  I think 
the PPI couldve  still been useful.
Mrs P wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely she needed better 
advice or information  about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mrs P before she agreed  
to purchase it. I dont think she was told it would cost £36.50  each month until after the 
mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information about 
the cost would have affected Mrs Ps decision to purchase the policy.  She had chosen  to 
take out the policy, knowing she would  have to pay something for it. The policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely she would have made a 
different decision if better information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Mrs P would have  made  a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been  provided to her  overall, I think  she would still have  
taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN11212233my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1121223