K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained to Hitachi Capital  (UK) Plc (Hitachi)  about the way it has dealt with a 
claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background
In June 2015 Mr A entered into an agreement  with a company called Heart & Solar Limited 
(H&S) for the supply and installation of a solar panel system.  The cost of the system was 
£9,060 and H&S arranged  for payment to be made by way of a fixed  term loan with Hitachi. 
The loan term was 10 years and, with interest,  the total amount to be repaid was 
£13,513.20.
Mr A says that he was told by H&S at the time of sale that the financial benefits generated by 
the solar panels  would cover the cost of servicing the monthly loan payments  essentially 
making it self-funding.   Those financial benefits  come in the form of energy bill savings and 
Feed-in-Tariff (FiT)  payments from selling excess energy  back to the grid.
The system hasnt performed as Mr A was expecting  and hes had to make  payments 
towards the loan from his personal funds.
Under s.75 a finance provider can be responsible for misrepresentations and breaches of 
contract to the same extent as the supplier of goods.  So, Mr A made a claim to Hitachi  on 
the basis the solar  panel system  had been misrepresented  to him by H&S.
Hitachi didnt uphold  Mr As claim.   It said the sales documentation was clear  and so the 
system wasnt  misrepresented.   Mr A didnt agree and referred his complaint to this Service  
for review.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and recommended it be upheld.   In 
summary she said that Mr A wasnt provided  with clear information at the time of sale and 
concluded the system  was misrepresented as being  self-funding.
To put things right, the investigator  suggested that Hitachi compensate Mr A for the 
difference between  the actual financial benefits produced  by the system,  and what would be 
required to make the system self-funding  over the 10-year loan term.
The solicitor  representing  Mr A agreed  that the complaint should  be upheld but responded 
including comments about the representations made  to Mr A by the salesman.  It also said 
that the fair and reasonable way of putting  things right would be to fully unwind the credit 
agreement and arrange for the solar panels to be removed.
Hitachi disagreed  with the investigator  and provided  further points for consideration.  In  
summary it said:
The point  of sale documentation was clear in setting out the expected level of 
performance and costs.
Based  upon  the figures provided by Mr A, the system generated more in FIT 
payments than was set out on the Confirmation Certificate issued by H&S.
A customer must  take responsibility for reading  the point of sale documents.
Ref: DRN12129792The performance of the system would have been clear to Mr A after 12-18 months 
and so he would have known that the income  from the system  wasnt covering the 
loan costs.  But theres no evidence Mr A raised this as a concern previously.
The investigator considered the solicitors comments but wasnt  persuaded to change her 
opinion.  As  no agreement could be reached the complaint has now been passed  to me to 
carry out a review afresh and decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and for broadly  the same reasons.
For there to be a valid s.75 claim,  there must  be an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship.  Im  satisfied  that relationship exists here and Hitachi  has accepted  
responsibility for the s.75 claim  so I wont expand further.
Ive considered the available documentation  and what representations were likely  made  to 
Mr A at the point of sale.  Im satisfied the credit agreement set out the amount of the loan 
and total to be repaid including interest   so Mr A would have known the cost of the system 
and monthly payments he would need  to make.   So, the issue  for me to decide is whether 
the benefits of the system  were  clearly explained or whether they were misrepresented.
The sales  contract  doesnt show the details  of the financial  benefits  that the system would 
produce.  There are handwritten notes and rough calculations on the form but its not entirely 
clear what  they represent.  Hitachi says that the sales  contract  is a template form that 
doesnt allow for loan interest as the purchase could be made using a few different funding 
methods.  But it says the Confirmation Certificate  given to Mr A provides a clear estimation 
of the FIT benefits  he would receive  as being £477.20 per annum.
Whilst I take Hitachis comments on board, Im not persuaded the documents make it entirely 
clear what  financial benefits Mr A could expect.   Those benefits  could come in the form of 
energy savings and FIT payments and I dont think it would have been evident to Mr A what 
the total benefits would be.
Mr As complaint is centred around H&S making  the representation that the solar panel 
system would be self-funding.  Full  cost and benefit comparisons were not included in the 
point of sales documents, but Mr A says he has a clear recollection that he was told the 
system would pay for itself.  Ive carefully considered this point to decide  what  is most likely  
on balance.
At the time of sale, Mr A was around  61 years  of age and had a modest  income.  I dont think  
he would  have likely taken on the commitment of a monthly payment of £112.61 for a term of 
10 years  without reassurances that the system  would generate  benefits  to cover the cost.  I 
think this is also supported by the fact that Mr A hadnt actively  been looking to purchase  
solar panels   but was instead  approached by the H&S salesman when he was in the area.  
This suggests to me that the proposal  put to Mr A would have needed to be persuasive  
and so its likely he was told it would  be self-funding.
So overall, Ive concluded that Mr A was told the system would be self-funding.  But  as the 
benefits havent covered the loan costs, I believe H&S did misrepresent the system  to Mr A.
Ref: DRN12129793putting things right
Im satisfied Hitachi should compensate Mr A for the misrepresentation H&S made to him.  
Deciding what is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right is not an exact science, 
and Ive considered  all the options available to me.
Im aware Mr As representative has requested the solar panels  be uninstalled and that 
Hitachi unwind the credit  agreement and refund all payments made.  However, I dont 
consider that would be appropriate here, as arranging  for the solar  panels to be uninstalled 
would be a disproportionate cost for Hitachi.
Mr A has explained that he purchased the solar panel system on the basis  it would pay for 
itself, so in this case, I feel it would be fair for him keep  the solar  panels installed and be 
compensated to ensure the system  pays for itself.  
Hitachi should calculate the financial benefits generated by the system over the 10-year loan 
term based upon the known historic benefits and estimated future  benefits.   It should then 
recalculate the loan the make sure that it doesnt cost Mr A any more than those benefits  
effectively making it self-funding.
By recalculating the loan in this way, I would reasonably expect that Mr As loan payments 
would reduce, meaning that he will likely  have made overpayments  in maintaining  the loan to 
date.  So,  Hitachi should add 8% simple interest  to any overpayments  made,  from the date 
each payment was made to the date of settlement.
Once Hitachi has calculated the compensation due to Mr A, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for him to choose how those funds should be used.  So,  it should  implement Mr 
As choice  from the following options:
a)Use the compensation to reduce the loan balance  and allow him to continue 
making the current monthly  payment  resulting in the loan being repaid  early.
b)Use the compensation to reduce the loan balance  and reduce  the monthly 
payment accordingly  until the end of the loan term.
c)Pay the compensation to Mr A and allow him to continue paying the current 
monthly payments   resulting  in the loan being  paid early.
d)Pay the compensation to Mr A and reduce the monthly loan payment accordingly 
until the end of the loan term.
Given  the uncertainty  Mr A has experienced  as a result  of Hitachis  rejection  of his claim,  I 
consider  it fair and reasonable  for it to pay him £100  for that trouble  and upset.   Mr A should  
let Hitachi  know  whether  he would  like to receive  payment  of that amount,  or if he opts to 
include  that sum in the compensation  to be used  in the implementation  of the option  he 
chooses  from those  above.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc.  
To put things right it should  pay the fair compensation set out above, and Mr A will need to 
confirm to Hitachi which of the options set out he chooses to implement that compensation.
Ref: DRN12129794Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1212979