K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with his claim under  an insurance policy. He wants the cost of the access  work done  
refunded and compensation.
background
Mr S had a kitchen appliance policy  with British Gas. His dishwasher  had a problem so 
British Gas sent an engineer to assist. But the engineer told Mr S that he couldnt gain 
access to the dishwasher due to the floor being  laid after the dishwasher had been  installed. 
Mr S contacted British  Gas and was told he was covered for up to £1000 for the costs  of 
gaining access so he could get the work  carried out and then reclaim  the cost.  Mr S did so, 
but British Gas refused to pay for the access costs.
Mr S complained to British Gas. It said its engineer told Mr S twice that he would  have to sort 
out access to the dishwasher as it wasnt something  British Gas would do in the 
circumstances. British  Gas agreed that its call centre staff then told Mr S the access costs  of 
up to £1000 would be repaid, but explained  this was incorrect due to the terms and 
conditions of the policy  permanent flooring had been installed preventing access which 
was excluded from the access cost offer. British Gas refused to repay the access  costs as 
Mr S had been told by an engineer that it wasnt a matter for British Gas and in any event  
Mr S wouldve  needed  to get the work done to have  a working  dishwasher.  It sent £80 
compensation for trouble  and upset caused  by the incorrect information given.
Mr S complained to us. The investigators view was that British  Gas was at fault for telling  
Mr S that the cost of getting access  to the dishwasher up to £1000 would be covered by his 
policy. But he also noted that under the terms and conditions of the policy while  the cost of 
access was covered, it excluded specifically access issues because  a part of your system 
has been permanently  built over. The investigator  said this was a design  fault and meant 
access to the dishwasher wasnt  covered by the policy. He didnt accept that Mr S wouldnt 
have in any event  paid to get access to the dishwasher if British  Gas hadnt said that the 
cost was covered  by the policy as it wouldve meant Mr S would never be able to use a 
dishwasher. The investigator said the offer of £80 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by the incorrect  information given by British Gas was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr S disagreed. He said British Gas should  be bound by what it told him when he called 
before getting  the access work  done. Mr S also said that he wouldnt have got the work done 
if British Gas hadnt told him that it would be refunded  as a dishwasher was a luxury, not a 
necessity. The investigator  said it wasnt fair or reasonable to require British  Gas to make  a 
payment which  it wasnt legally required to pay under the terms of a policy due to incorrect  
information being given.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN11876682Theres no dispute that British Gas told Mr S during a telephone call before the access  work 
was done that the policy  would refund him the costs of gaining  access  to the dishwasher,  
subject to a cap of £1000.  Mr S hasnt disputed  that the terms of the policy  say if access is 
prevented to an appliance due to part of the system  being permanently built over,  
British Gas doesnt have to pay for the access costs. Im of the view that the insurance policy 
doesnt cover the access work required by Mr S.
Mr S point is that British  Gas should  pay the cost of the access  works regardless of the 
policy wording as it told him that it would do so when he called. My role isnt to punish 
businesses for making mistakes but to ensure  that the consumer is put back  into the position 
that he shouldve  been in if the error hadnt  happened. If Mr S hadnt been incorrectly told 
that the access work would be refunded, he still wouldnt have had any entitlement to the 
payment as the insurance policy specifically excluded the work required. 
Mr S says that he wouldnt have had the work done  if hed known that hed have to pay the 
access costs.  But Mr S cared enough  about the dishwasher to organise  repeated  visits from 
engineers (who told him that he would have  to deal with the access issue). I think  its more  
likely than not Mr S wouldve got the access work  done in the circumstances. As a result,  I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to require British Gas to pay the access 
costs.
But British  Gas did act unfairly and unreasonably in giving Mr S incorrect information  over 
the phone  and failing to warn him about the exclusions in the policy. I think Mr S has 
suffered trouble and upset as a result, particularly frustration and disappointment. Money 
never truly compensates for trouble and upset and I must bear in mind this services  
guidelines. Having  looked at all the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that £80 is fair 
and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by the incorrect information.  
I exclude the trouble and upset caused by having to pay the access costs themselves as this 
was never  covered by the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
12 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1187668