K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limited failed to transfer funds from a pension  
account in a timely manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
November 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Alliance Trust said that it 
accepted my provisional decision. We didnt hear anything back from Mr J.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new comments or evidence  I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision. I dont think the time Alliance Trust took to process the 
transfer was unreasonable. And even  if I did, I cant see that any loss has been caused to 
Mr J.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Alliance Trust Savings  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11530282EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr J complains that Alliance  Trust Savings  Limited  failed to transfer funds from a pension account in a 
timely manner.
background
Mr J held pension savings on an investment platform provided by Alliance Trust. In 2017, as a result 
of a pension sharing order  following his divorce, Mr J transferred some of his pension savings to his 
ex-wife. He says that the transfer of those  monies was delayed due to a processing error  by 
Alliance Trust, and as a result the reinvestment of those funds by his ex-wife was at a higher  
purchase price than it should have been.
The request for the transfer of the pension  monies  was made, on Mr Js behalf, by the administrator of 
his pension  I will call that company R. R sent the instruction to Alliance  Trust by recorded  delivery 
and it is shown as having been received  on 23 May 2017. But it seems that instruction was mislaid 
and wasnt processed. R contacted Alliance Trust on 25 May to confirm safe receipt  of the instruction.  
When it became  apparent the original request had been lost, it faxed  a new instruction. That new 
instruction was processed by Alliance  Trust on the following day and the funds  transferred to R.
Alliance Trust accepts that it mislaid the original instruction. And although  it says there is no 
contractual timescale for processing such an instruction it has accepted that the transfer of Mr Js 
funds might have been delayed by one day. So it paid Mr J some compensation comprising 
compensatory interest and reflecting the trouble and upset the matter has caused to him.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service  and it has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He 
didnt think the compensation paid by Alliance Trust was sufficient. He thought  that Alliance Trust 
needed to provide compensation to Mr J to reflect the investment loss caused by the delay.
Alliance Trust didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been resolved 
informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
There seems  to be little dispute that Alliance Trust mislaid the original  instruction it was given by R. 
There is evidence of the letter containing  that instruction being received by Alliance  Trust. But the 
instruction didnt appear on its processing system. Fortunately however, due to the diligence  of R in 
confirming receipt of the instruction, a replacement  was sent just a couple of days  later.
There is no published, or contractual, service standard for Alliance  Trust processing a withdrawal 
request. Alliance Trust says that it would  expect  to complete the processing  request within 3 business 
days. And so it says that it missed that internal target by 1 day when it mislaid Mr Js request.
Ref: DRN11530283I think  the rest of the transfer process seems to have run to the timetable  Alliance Trust would expect. 
The funds were sent by BACS to R the day after the request was resent.  And R has confirmed that it 
paid the funds  to Mr Js ex-wife the day after they were received. So I dont think  there is anything  at 
the latter  end of the transfer timetable that should cause me any concern. I have noted  that Mr J 
thinks the funds should have been sent to R by CHAPS instead given  the earlier delay. But I dont 
agree. The instruction  that R gave to Alliance Trust was for a BACS payment. I dont think  the delay  
was such that the faster, and more  expensive, CHAPS system should have been used for making  the 
payment.
So I need to consider  here whether the fact that Alliance Trust failed to act on the initial  transfer 
instruction it received caused an unreasonable  delay. And if I think that a delay was caused Id need 
to consider whether  that caused Mr J to lose out as a result.
Im not persuaded  that the time it took Alliance Trust to make  the transfer was unreasonable. I thank 
Alliance Trust for its honesty  in explaining  its internal  service standards  to us. But without that 
information I wouldnt have  concluded that the time it took to make the transfer, even allowing for the 
fact that R needed to resend  the instruction, was unreasonable. The first instruction was received on 
23 May, and funds were sent to R on 26 May  Id assess that as a period of just three days. Based  
on my experience of similar processing times for transfers of this nature I dont find that to be 
unreasonable.
But even if I were  to agree  with Mr J that Alliance Trust had caused an unreasonable delay Im not 
persuaded that he has lost out as a result. I can see that Mr J sold some of his investments to 
generate the cash to be transferred around 19 May. That was some  time before  the original 
instruction reached  Alliance  Trust. So any delays  in the processing of his transfer instruction  wouldnt 
have affected the value of the funds  he wanted to transfer.
Mr J has also confirmed  to us that the delay he says happened didnt result in him needing to make 
any additional  payments to his ex-wife in respect of the pension sharing order.  So he hasnt lost out in 
that regard either. But Mr J has said that the delay  meant his ex-wife was prevented from reinvesting 
the transferred  funds  in a timely  manner.  I havent  seen  anything  to confirm  that was the case. But 
even so, that wouldnt be a loss that Mr J has experienced.  He has confirmed that the funds he 
transferred from his pension met his liability under the pension sharing order.  And he has confirmed  
that the delay he claims Alliance Trust caused didnt mean he had to make any additional payment  to 
his ex-wife.
I appreciate that Mr J feels the delay  might have caused some loss to his ex-wife. But that isnt 
something I can look at in relation to this complaint. I need to consider whether an error  by Alliance 
Trust has been made and whether it has caused loss to Mr J. And having  considered all the evidence 
I dont think either test has been met. I dont  currently  think the time Alliance Trust  took to process the 
transfer was unreasonable. And even if I did, I cant currently  see that any loss has been caused to 
Mr J.
Ref: DRN1153028