K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  hasnt  offered a fair valuation  for her car 
following a total loss. 
background
Mrs A insured her car with Ageas. She gave the vehicle valuation as £6,000.  Mrs As car 
was involved in a total loss accident  in November 2018. Ageas offered £3,650 as the market 
value of the car which took into account that it was in good condition. Mrs A didnt accept 
that offer as she believed the car was worth  more. 
Ageas considered the complaint and stood by its settlement offer.  Not happy with that Mrs A 
asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator  concluded the offer made  by Ageas 
was fair and so she didnt  ask it to do anymore. She also pointed out she had paid £4,795 for 
the car. 
Mrs A asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman. She says although she paid 
£4,795 for the car she insured it for £6,000 and so doesnt think  the settlement offer is fair.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find that Ageas has 
already made a fair settlement for Mrs As claim.
The starting point  is the contract between Mrs A and Ageas  the policy  insurance.  Under  If 
the car is a total loss the policy says:
Once an engineer  has inspected  and assessed the market value  of the car, we will 
send you an offer of payment.  
And under Replacement car
We will not pay more than the market value  of the car unless.
Market value is defined  as:
The cost of replacing the car with one of a similar age, type, mileage  and condition,  
immediately before the loss or damage  happened. 
Ageas referred  to vehicle valuation guides  to obtain  a market value for the car. These guides 
are based  on nationwide  research of likely  (but not actual) selling prices.  They  use 
advertised prices and auction  prices to work out likely selling prices.  Ageas has offered an 
amount that sits between  two guide prices  given. We use a similar approach  and the same 
vehicle valuation guides to help decide if an offer is fair. Checking an additional guide 
available to us, the amount offered by Ageas is still an offer commensurate with the values 
given in the guides. Overall I dont find Ageas has acted unfairly in offering the value it has. 
Mrs A has argued that she insured the car for more than she bought  it for as that is how 
much it would cost to replace. But thats  not right, thats the value she gave the car when she 
insured it. And her insurance  policy isnt one that pays out a set price if the need to claim  
Ref: DRN16884382should arise  her policy, the contract  with the insurer, is to pay the market  value of the car. 
This is the way most motor insurance policies work; if Mrs A had wanted a specified  value 
paid out, she would  have needed  to take out a policy  that provides that cover. And I dont 
find her argument about replacing the car persuasive as she actually bought  the car for far 
less. Im also mindful selling prices  and market values are rarely one and the same,  
particularly as selling prices are often  inflated and negotiated down.
Mrs A hasnt provided persuasive evidence the market values given  were  wrong. As its the 
market value payable  under the terms of the policy, Im satisfied Ageas has already made a 
fair offer to settle  the claim and so I wont be asking  it to do anymore.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Ageas Insurance  Limited  has already 
made a fair settlement  of Mrs As claim. I require it to make that settlement payment to Mrs A 
if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1688438