K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs L payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with secured loans in 1997 
and 1998. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sales  of the PPI took place over 20 years ago and not all of the original documents  from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs L have said:
We dont recall any reference or discussion relating  to PPI. We believe PPI was part 
of the loan application which was never  referred to or highlighted during the meeting.
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened, unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of this. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has 
done something wrong, fairness requires that the person  making the allegation should 
present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt  do something,  especially when it was such  a long time ago. And I can see 
from the loan documents that Mr and Mrs L signed  that the fact that PPI was being included,  
as a separate monthly payment, was fairly prominently  displayed. So I think  its likely they 
were aware of the PPI at the time,  even  if they didnt remember  afterwards. I cant tell 
whether the PPI was presented as a choice during the discussions that led to the loans and 
the PPI policies. But, without stronger evidence,  I cant fairly say the PPI was added  without 
Mr and Mrs Ls genuine agreement. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply. I will explain.
Ref: DRN11107742Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs L as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr and Mrs L to decide  whether  it was suitable (although I acknowledge 
they are saying they werent aware of the PPI being added).  But even if Nationwide  had 
made a recommendation, I think it would probably  have  been an appropriate one in their 
circumstances at the time. Finding  yourself unable to pay a secured loan can lead to 
significant difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr L (the 
person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially  for longer. It would have 
paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the 
time when  Mr and Mrs L would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may 
have had for paying the secured loan and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs L in a more  secure  position,  if theyd eventually lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they couldnt afford 
the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy  
(although I can see the monthly cost was shown  on the loan agreement in 1998). But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mr and Mrs L took the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have  been  affected  by any of these. And theyd  be paying for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1110774