K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) failed to honour her online 
application for a bank  transfer credit card. When she contacted the customer  helpline  it gave 
her a very poor service.
background
On 30 June 2018 Miss A applied online for a bank transfer credit card. She says her 
application was approved  but while she was entering some further details the connection 
timed out. She tried again and the same thing  happened. She tried for the third time but 
Halifax then rejected her application. 
She called the helpline.  And after a long wait the bank told her that it would remove her 
online applications from its system so she could start again. It said it would phone her on 6 
July 2018 but it didnt  do so. She carried her phone around with her while she was waiting 
for the call and it was damaged. 
She phoned the bank the following day and was on the phone for over four hours. She 
spoke to a number of different operators. She says one told her the online application would  
be honoured with a credit limit of £6,000.  But another operator  said it could only offer her 
£3,700 and not £6,000 as previously agreed. He asked for more details and then said he 
could only offer her a credit limit of £700.  
Halifax didnt accept  itd told Miss A the original credit limit would be honoured. It says the 
operator had explained to her that the potential credit limit for telephone applications may be 
less but that this can reviewed once the account  is opened. Then, when it considered  her 
income and expenditure it said it could only offer her a credit limit of £700.
But it accepted Miss As account of the poor service itd given her. And it paid her £75 
compensation. It said it would refund £42 of call costs but to do so it needed to see a copy  of 
her mobile phone statement. But Miss A couldnt  provide  that so its now agreed to pay her 
£42 without the itemised bill.
The adjudicator didnt think Halifax could be held responsible for the damage to Miss As 
phone. And from the banks system notes he thought it likely Halifax  had made  Miss A aware 
it may not be able to give her the full credit limit she wanted. He noted that this sort of 
decision is a commercial one so this Service cant tell it to give Miss A the higher limit. Its 
already paid her £75 and its now agreed to pay a further £42 for the phone calls shed 
made. And he thought that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Miss A didnt agree with his opinion. Shes  unhappy  the recordings of her phone  calls 
werent available to listen to. And she thinks Halifax should be responsible for the damage to 
her phone.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
Ref: DRN16077452The adjudicator has given a full outline  of the circumstances of Miss As complaint and the 
reasons why he didnt  think  Halifax should have to do anymore. And theres  very little I can 
add to it.
I can understand how frustrating it was for Miss A when her application  timed  out twice  but I 
cant see that this was Halifaxs mistake. She then had a frustrating time on the phone and 
Halifax has accepted  it gave her a poor service. But it didnt accept itd told her it would grant  
her application  for a £6,000 credit  limit. Unfortunately Halifax  wasnt able to trace the phone 
recordings. But it does  have notes on its system and I can see that it told her the potential  
credit limit that could  be agreed over the phone may be less than that offered online. But that 
this limit could be reviewed once the account  had been  opened. It carried  out further  checks  
and then told Miss A it could only offer her £700 based upon her income  and expenditure. As 
the adjudicator  explained,  that's not a decision we can interfere with.
I can also see from the system notes that Halifax asked Miss A what time would be 
convenient for a call back. She gave a time but the call never came.  Miss A says she 
wouldnt normally carry her phone around  with her but in the process of doing so it was 
damaged. I dont think that can be Halifaxs  responsibility. Miss A gave a time that was 
convenient to her. Halifax couldnt have reasonably foreseen that she had to make special 
arrangements so she didnt miss the call (carrying her phone when she didnt  normally  do 
so). So I cant reasonably  find its responsible for the damage.
Halifax has already  paid Miss A £75. Its offered to pay her a further  £42 for the phone calls.  
If its not already  done that and Miss A would like to accept its offer, our investigator will help 
her to do so 
I know Miss A will be very disappointed with my decision but I dont think  Halifax  should do 
anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1607745