K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank plc will not refund payments made using his debit card 
which he says he neither made nor authorised.
Background
Mr S disputes the following transactions:
5 June 2017 Cash withdrawal at branch £630.00
6 June 2017 ATM £250.00
6 June 2017 ATM £250.00
6 June 2017 Cash withdrawal at branch £50.00
Initially Lloyds didnt  agree to take responsibility for the loss because it couldnt  see how a 
third party could have  completed them using the genuine card and PIN. But Mr S later told 
Lloyds that his housemate admitted carrying out the transactions. So Lloyds refunded  the 
two ATM  transactions. But it wouldnt refund  the two branch transactions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
there was enough  evidence  to show that Mr S hadnt authorised the transactions. She 
thought it was strange that the card had been taken on the same day that Mr S had credited 
money to the account.
Mr S did not agree.  He said, in summary,  that:
He is only disputing the withdrawal of £630.
He didnt deposit  £550 on 5 June,  he went into a branch to make the deposit on the 
morning of 6 June.
He regularly lent his housemate money, but didnt authorise him to use his card. His 
housemate took his card from his room while he was out and he didnt notice it missing. 
His housemate could have shoulder surfed him at any time to find out his PIN.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here,  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
I appreciate Mr S is not disputing the withdrawals  that have been refunded to him. But I need 
fairly to look at all the circumstances in which he has said his card and PIN were  used 
without his knowledge or authority. Especially  as these may mean  his card was taken from 
him twice  without him knowing. And I asked Lloyds to clarify exactly  how the credit of £550  
was paid into account. That has taken sometime to resolve but is something  Mr S disputed  
and was important  because he thought it had adversely affected our assessment.
Ref: DRN14556542The information Ive been provided  with shows that Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were  used 
for the transactions.  The PIN isnt kept in unencrypted  form on the card itself, and its unlikely 
anyone would have  been able to guess it.
Mr S says his housemate  could have shoulder surfed him at any point  Mr S says they 
sometimes went to an ATM  together so that Mr S could take out money to loan to his 
housemate. I accept thats possible.  But I think its more likely that Mr Ss involvement was 
greater than he suggests. Let me explain why.
Lloyds has provided  evidence that a deposit  made at 20:45  on 5 June 2017. It was made 
through a cash  machine using a deposit envelope.  That can be done  when  a branch is 
closed. His card and PIN were required to make this deposit. Im satisfied on the evidence 
that this is what happened  and that the credit  was, as a result,  shown in his account the 
following day when the envelope was processed  by branch staff.
This mean a third party  was able to take Mr Ss card, without his knowledge, on the 
afternoon of 5 June  and withdraw £630 cash in a branch.  He was then able to return the 
card for Mr S to use it to make a deposit  at an ATM  in the evening.  That same  third party  
was then able to take the card again   the following  afternoon  make three further  
withdrawals and then return the card to Mr S, without his knowledge.  And this person  must 
have seen Mr Ss PIN at some point and knew  about the money  in the account - especially 
the additional cash paid in on 5 June 2017.  And that person didnt take the money from the 
account as quickly  as possible.
Whilst I think this could  have happened, I think its unlikely.  So I dont have a basis  to require 
Lloyds to refund any further money  to Mr S.
My final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2919.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1455654