K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  a number of 
packaged bank  accounts. Mr and Mrs Ss account  history is as follows
Opened as a fee free account in August 1991
Upgraded to a Select account  some  time prior to 2001
Upgraded to a Platinum account  in April 2010
Downgraded to a Silver account in February 2011
Upgraded to a Gold account in August 2011
Downgraded to a fee free account  in November 2011
background
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service Lloyds agreed that the recommendation 
that it made  for the Platinum account  was not right for Mr and Mrs S. Lloyds stated that it 
shouldve recommended the Silver account and therefore it refunded the difference in the 
cost of the two accounts for the period that Mr and Mrs S held the Platinum account. It also 
added interest to this amount, in line with this services approach.
Our adjudicators looked into this complaint already and they did not think  that Lloyds had 
mis-sold the Select, Silver and Gold account  and that what  it had agreed  to do in relation to 
the Platinum account was sufficient.  Mr and Mrs S did not agree with this and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I think  that what Lloyds 
has already done  to put things right is fair. So Im not going  to ask it to pay Mr and Mrs S any 
more money and Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs S were given a clear choice in taking  the 
respective packaged  accounts. At this point, it may help for me to explain that where matters 
are in dispute  such as here - I have to make my decision based on what  I think is more 
likely than not to have happened. 
To decide what I think more likely than not happened, Ive considered  everything Ive been 
told and weighed up what both Mr and Mrs S and Lloyds have been able to provide me with.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ss joint account was opened as a fee 
free one. I say that because even though Lloyds earliest detailed records relating to this 
account only go back to August  2001  and they show Mr and Mrs S already had a Select 
account by this stage,  Lloyds  didnt  offer the Select account until 1997.  Mr and Mrs Ss joint 
account was initially opened in 1991  and therefore I am satisfied that they had a free 
account with Lloyds prior to the upgrade. As this is the case,  I think that Mr and Mrs S 
wouldve known at the point they moved  to the Select account that Lloyds did offer free 
accounts.
Ref: DRN19456612Mr and Mrs S have  explained that they were told that all accounts were  being moved to paid 
for accounts and therefore they took the cheapest one that was available.  But I note that 
they upgraded their account  several times after this point which is not consistent  with 
someone who only wants the cheapest account.  In addition I note that a sole account was 
opened as a fee free current  account  in 2005 and I really wouldve expected Mr and Mrs S to 
query why they were  able to suddenly have  a free account if they were told previously that 
they were no longer  available.
Mr and Mrs S have  explained that this other  account was a savings account not a current 
account. But based on the information  that I have  the account was a standard current  
account and was used as such. A separate savings account was opened  six months prior to 
this and this could possibly be what Mr and Mrs S recall now.
Taking everything Ive seen together, I think its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs S were  
given a clear choice on taking the respective accounts and agreed to them. As Ive found 
that Mr and Mrs S more likely than not agreed  to the upgrades,  what  I now need to do is 
decide whether  the Select, Silver and Gold account  were mis-sold and whether what Lloyds  
has done to put things  right for the Platinum account is fair. 
the sale of the Select account
This account wouldve been recommended to Mr and Mrs S. This means that Lloyds had to 
make a reasonable recommendation  taking into consideration Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances 
at the time of the sale.
Because I dont know exactly  when this upgrade happened,  I cant  say for certain  what  
benefits this account came  with when it was taken  out. But I think that its likely that it came 
with breakdown cover, because that was the main  insurance benefit  from 1999 onwards. . 
Mr and Mrs S have  used this benefit  on a number of occasions so I think  that this account 
was a reasonable recommendation.  I note Mr and Mrs S have said that the level of cover 
offered by this policy was not suitable  for them as they had to pay extra for home start and a 
replacement batteries. But I can see that they did upgrade this cover directly  with the insurer  
on occasion. In addition to this, had Lloyds highlighted every detail of cover I dont think it 
wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Ss decision to take out the account. I say this because when 
they found out the level of cover  they chose to keep the account.  And this means  that I dont 
think that Lloyds  recommending the Select packaged bank account to Mr and Mrs S was 
unfair. 
. 
why I think what Lloyds  has done to put things right in terms of Mr and Mrs Ss Platinum 
account is fair and reasonable
Lloyds has already accepted that it made an unfair  recommendation and it has offered the 
difference in fees between the cheaper Silver account and the Platinum account in an 
attempt to put things right. So I dont need to look at the sale of the Platinum account itself 
and I only need  to think about whether what Lloyds has done to put things right for Mr and 
Mrs S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  
Ref: DRN19456613At the time that the Silver account wouldve been  taken out the benefits that it came with 
where European Travel insurance, Breakdown cover and Mobile  Phone  insurance and the 
Select account that Mr and Mrs S held only came  with Breakdown  cover and Mobile  Phone  
insurance. The Silver account was also £1 cheaper than the Select account. As Mr and Mrs 
S did travel I think that recommending an account  that was cheaper than the account they 
already held, and came  with additional  benefits,  wouldve been a reasonable 
recommendation.
the downgrade to the Silver account in February  2011
Mr and Mrs S have  not raised  a specific complaint about this downgrade. In addition, notes 
from the time of this downgrade  suggest that Mr and Mrs S called in themselves to action 
this downgrade  so I dont think that Lloyds  did anything  wrong  in relation to this downgrade
the sale of the Gold account
This sale was carried out online by Mr and Mrs S without the presence of members  of 
Lloyds staff. I note Mr and Mrs Ss comments that they downgraded  from this account as 
they were not made aware of the limits  of the travel insurance. I can see that is a contact 
note from the time saying  that Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this and that £100 was 
redress was paid for this. Given that Mr and Mrs S took out this account themselves; only 
held it for three months; and paid less than £25 in total for this account, its hard to see how 
any further compensation is due above  and beyond  the £100  they have already received.
Mr and Mrs S may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe they havent benefitted from the 
accounts as much as theyd hoped and expected to. And given what they may have  read or 
heard about  packaged  bank accounts  in general and that Lloyds has upheld the complaint 
about the Platinum account, I can to some extent  understand why they might  now think  their 
other accounts were  mis-sold. But having  considered everything I am not satisfied that the 
other accounts were  mis-sold or that Lloyds needs  to do anything  more in relation to the sale 
of the platinum account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think that the amount Lloyds has already  agreed  to pay    
Mr and Mrs S is fair. So I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1945661