K821x#15complaint
Miss C has complained about the settlement of a claim  made  by Inter Partner Assistance SA
under her travel insurance policy.
background
Miss C was on holiday when she developed  an internal injury to her ear. She was advised
not to fly and so had to make changes to her itinerary which  meant incurring costs. IPA
settled her medical insurance costs but did not agree that the other costs incurred were
covered by her policy. Miss C complained.
Our investigator didnt  find that IPA had treated Miss C unfairly.  Miss C, via her
representative, appealed. She said that she had been specifically  told in the first call she
made that her additional travel expenses would  be covered and for one other  person  to
accompany her. Having  listened to further call recordings submitted by IPA our investigator
didnt change her mind.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February  2020.  I said:
Ive only included a brief summary but Ive considered all the available evidence  and
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
IPA has a responsibility to hand claims fairly  and they shouldnt reject  claims unreasonably.
Ive looked carefully  to see if it has done that.
Miss Cs policy  covers  her for medical emergencies. It says (as far as relevant here):
1.Medical Emergency  and Repatriation  Service
What you are covered  for:
We will pay the following costs if you suffer an unforeseen  bodily injury , illness, a
complication of pregnancy  or die during a trip outside the United  Kingdom.
a) All reasonable  and necessary expenses  which  arise as a result  of a medical emergency
(excluding search and rescue)  involving you. This includes  medical  practitioners fees,
hospital expenses, medical  treatment and all the costs of transporting you to the nearest
suitable hospital, when deemed  necessary by a recognised medical practitioner
f) Reasonable additional travelling and accommodation costs for returning home insured
members of your family travelling with you, where  a valid claim is made under this
section
g) Reasonable additional accommodation  and meal expenses incurred up to the standard of
your original booking, if it is recommended by the treating registered  medical practitioner,
and agreed by our Chief Medical Officer, that it is medically necessary for you to stay
beyond your  original return date.
There is no dispute that Miss C suffered a medical emergency when she was abroad and
incurred expenses as a result of this. Her claim for medical expenses  was met. But as she
was advised not to fly for a period of time she needed to changed  her travel plans and
Ref: DRN19475152incurred further  expense whilst abroad.
The policy terms show that this further  expense is not covered by her policy  it provides
cover if she extends her stay or returns home. Neither of those things happened.  Miss C was 
able to take her scheduled flight home.  Nevertheless Miss C says she was advised she 
would be covered so Ive listened to the calls from the time to see what  she was told.
Its clear that Miss C was told that her medical  expenses would be covered  she was told to
pay the reasonable costs a raise a claim on her return to the UK. There were several calls
regarding next steps for Miss C. She told the advisers she wasnt  able to fly and had medical
evidence for that. She clearly explained that she would be taking trains rather  than internal
flights. Although  she wasnt  told she would be covered I think it would have been helpful  on
the advisers to tell her that she might  not be  this would depend on the terms of her policy.
One adviser explained that only one person would be covered for the costs incurred by
changing the itinerary. And then the next said possibly  plus one other if it was medically
necessary. Its likely that they were referring  to the flight  home, but that wasnt  clear and
certainly Miss C wouldnt have understood that. She was calling for assistance  and I think
she was inadvertently led to believe that her internal itinerary changes  would be covered,
subject to medical evidence. For this reason  on her return home she attempted to make  a
claim.
That said Im not persuaded that if Miss C was told she wasnt covered she would have
stayed where she was. She was on a family holiday and she explained that it was possible
for her to complete most of the trip by train. So I cant  say it would be reasonable to ask IPA
to pay her expenses claim.  But I do think she would have been distressed and disappointed
on being advised on her return home she wasnt covered after all. For this I think
compensation is due to her. In the circumstances I think the sum of £250 is fair.
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision. Miss C didnt respond. IPA 
responded to say that it didnt feel £250 in compensation  was justified. It agreed its agents 
could have been clearer but said that it didnt provide any guarantee of cover  for these costs. 
When the claim form was received it was assessed  against the policys  terms and 
conditions. It said that on review it was not deemed medically necessary to travel by train.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not persuaded to 
depart from my original  findings.
I appreciate that a final decision  by IPA would not be made until the claim form and 
documents were  received. And I recognise that strictly the claim wasnt  covered by the 
policy. But Im satisfied  that Miss C was given misleading advice about this.
Additionally I accept Miss Cs evidence  that she had been advised not to fly at the time she 
made alternative arrangements and took the train journey.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  findings my final decision is that I require 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA to pay Miss C £250  in compensation.
Ref: DRN19475153I make  no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1947515