K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about searches on his credit file carried out by Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd (Creation).
background 
Mr H says he applied to Creation to check  if he was eligible for credit  in July 2018.  He says it 
shouldve been  a soft search that wouldnt affect  his credit file. But a hard search was carried  
out which contained incorrect details and did appear on his credit file. He also says a soft 
search was carried out using his incorrect name.  Mr H says Creation said it would only use 
one Credit Reference Agency (CRA) but reported  the search to other ones.
Creation says applications  were  made  in 2017 and again in 2018.  It says the 2018 
application resulted in a hard search of Mr Hs credit file and this was correctly  reported to 
the CRAs.  It also says it does report to more than one CRA and doesnt indicate on its 
application form that it only uses one CRA.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. She thought  Creation 
should remove the incorrect data about Mr Hs date of birth from his credit file. But she didnt  
think the issue about the incorrect  name was important as this was only a soft search.  She 
thought it was up to Creation to decide  which CRAs it reported information  to and didnt 
think Mr H had been told it would  only report to one CRA.
Creation has agreed to amend Mr Hs credit  file about the date of birth.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says Creations website says it uses  one CRA.  He says 
Creation has fraudulently  used his information  and shouldnt have conducted a full or hard 
search on his credit  file. He would like compensation for whats happened  and doesnt 
believe Creation  has acted fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for similar reasons. I realise Mr H will be disappointed 
by my decision.
Ive looked at Creations  records  and the e-mail Mr H sent it, in which  he says he was 
expecting goods  from it. SoI think it likely  that Mr H has applied for credit  which  resulted in a 
hard search  on his credit  file. I appreciate Mr H says he believed  that he was applying  for 
credit that wouldnt affect his credit file- a soft search. But I think,  as he was expecting a 
product to be sent to him, that a full application  must have either  been  made  after the soft 
search or in place  of it. So I dont think Creation has made a mistake by recording details of 
that application on his credit file in the way in which it has.
I appreciate Mr H also says that Creation said it would only record  information  with one CRA. 
But Im satisfied the credit application makes clear that Creation  will share the information 
with the CRAs and not just one. Im also satisfied  its up to Creation to make  a commercial  
decision on these sorts  of issues and I make  it clear Ive not seen any evidence that it said it 
would only report to one CRA. Ive also not seen any evidence  that Creation has been 
involved in a cover  up as Mr H believes.
Ref: DRN19517512There is no question that Mr Hs date of birth was incorrectly recorded  on his credit  file by 
Creation. But I think  its fairly  agreed  to amend that information in line with the investigators 
recommendation and I dont  that that mistake justifies any compensation. I can see that Mr 
Hs name has been incorrectly recorded  but I think its unclear why and it only appears  on 
the soft search.  So for those reasons I cant fairly order  Creation to do anything about that 
issue.
Overall Im satisfied Creation has acted fairly by agreeing to amend Mr Hs date of birth. And 
I cant fairly order it to do anything further in the circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1951751