K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them  
two packaged  bank accounts.  They paid a monthly fee for the accounts  which  provided 
several benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs F opened a joint Royalties Gold account  in December 1998. This was upgraded 
to a Royalties  Premier  account in November 2003,  and they closed their account  in 
September 2009.
Mr and Mrs F explained that their complaint is split into two parts:
They didnt know they had a packaged account when they held the Royalties Gold  
account, between  1998 and 2003
They did know they had a packaged  account  after their account  was upgraded to the 
Royalties Premier account,  but the benefits of that account were  of no use to them
So I thought  about Mr and Mrs Fs complaint with these points in mind for each account.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that RBS mis-sold the packaged accounts to 
Mr and Mrs F and didnt  recommend that RBS should pay them  any compensation. Mr and 
Mrs F didnt  agree so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint  and make  a 
final decision. 
Having considered everything, I reached a different outcome to our adjudicator. In my 
provisional decision dated March 2019 I set out why I was minded to uphold  the complaint in 
relation to the Royalties Gold account, but I explained that I didnt think the Royalties 
Premier account was mis-sold. Ive attached an extract of my provisional decision at the end 
of this decision, so I wont  repeat that information here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr and Mrs F didnt 
respond, and RBS provided some additional comments which  Ive considered.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its reply, RBS said that when Mr and Mrs F took the Royalties Gold  account, it wouldnt 
have divulged any information about  the other  Royalties Gold account Mrs F held, as it was 
held with another party.
Whilst I agree this may have been the case, it does persuade me that Mr and Mrs F werent  
aware of the Royalties  Gold account  sold to them in December 1998. I believe if they had 
been, its more  likely  than not that Mrs F wouldve closed  or downgraded the other  Royalties 
Gold account, or not taken this one.
RBS also highlighted  that Mr F had access to the Royalties Gold benefits, as did the joint 
party on the other Royalties Gold account that Mrs F was party  to.
Ref: DRN17514472Again  I agree with this point, and Ive thought about it very carefully. But Im not concerned 
with duplicated  benefits as much  as I am it being unlikely that Mr and 
Mrs F were aware of the Royalties Gold account. I do agree that they may have passively 
benefited from a preferential overdraft interest rate, but that doesnt necessarily show that 
they knew they held a packaged account.
RBS suggested  a refund of the six-month overlap  in account fees. But as I dont  think Mrs 
and Mrs F were  given a fair choice at the point the Royalties  Gold  account was sold,  I dont 
see that as fair compensation in this case.  RBS should put Mr and Mrs F in the position 
theyd be in now had this error  not happened. And the fair and reasonable way to do that is 
to put them  in the position theyd be in if they hadnt taken the Royalties Gold account in 
December 1998  at all.
So for the reasons given above,  and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold the 
complaint. My decision is that RBS mis-sold the Royalties Gold account,  but did not mis-sell  
the Royalties Premier  account.
putting things right
RBS should put Mr and Mrs F in the position  theyd be in now if RBS hadnt  mis-sold them  
the Royalties Gold account. I require RBS to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs F the amount they paid each month for the Royalties Gold  account
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs F have  saved money  because of a better  rate on their overdraft,  loan or 
savings account  by having the Royalties Gold account and RBS can show exactly  how 
much Mr and Mrs F saved, it may deduct  these savings from the amount it pays them.  
RBS must explain clearly and simply to Mr and Mrs F how it has worked out any 
deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  RBS to take off tax from this interest.  RBS must  give Mr and Mrs F 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold the complaint in part 
and I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to put things  right by doing  what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and 
Mrs F to accept  or reject  my decision before 26 May 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17514473EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECSION DATED  MARCH 2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind  everything Ive seen and been told.
After giving  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint a lot of thought, I currently think  RBS mis-sold  the Royalties 
Gold account  to Mr and Mrs F. But I dont think the Royalties Premier  account was mis-sold to them. 
Ill explain why.
Royalties Gold account  sold in December  1998
Within its complaint file RBS provided a history of all of the products Mrs F has held with it. 
Within that file its evident  that at the time RBS sold the Royalties Gold  account  to Mr and Mrs F, Mrs 
F already held a separate Royalties Gold account.  This continued until around August 1999,  when it 
was closed.
I dont know why Mr and Mrs F wouldve  agreed to opening a duplicate  Royalties  Gold  account, when 
Mrs F already held one. Or if they did knowingly agree to opening this one, I wouldve  expected Mrs F 
to downgrade the other Royalties Gold account. Effectively by not doing so, she was paying  twice  for 
duplicated benefits.
So Im persuaded  that its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs F were  unaware of the sale of the 
Royalties Gold account  sold to them  in December 1998, as Im not aware of a logical reason for 
having two of the same packaged accounts running concurrently.
So I intend to uphold this part of their complaint.
Royalties Premier  account sold in November  2003
Ive started by thinking  about whether Mr and Mrs F was given a fair choice  when they took their 
packaged bank account.
Its not in question  as to whether Mr and Mrs F agreed to take the Royalties Premier  account. Theyve 
given a fair amount  of detail about where  they took the account out, and who they spoke to. But 
theyve explained that they thought the Royalties Premier  account was a loyalty  off, which  would 
increase their status with the bank, as opposed to a package of benefits.
Whilst Ive thought  about  this point,  Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs F wouldve purely  believed that 
upgrading their account would simply improve  their status  with the bank. After all, this account  had a 
higher monthly fee than their previous  account,  and I think theyd  have expected to get something 
more in return  for that. 
I also think  that theyd have discussed  the accounts  main benefits. And on balance, I think its more 
likely than not that they agreed to the upgrade because something about  the Royalties  Premier 
account appealed  to them.
I dont think that RBS recommended the Royalties Premier account to Mr and Mrs F, so whilst  it didnt 
have to check  if the account was suitable for them, it did have to give them,  enough information about 
it for that to make that decision for themselves.
Ref: DRN17514474Mr and Mrs F say that they werent told that theyd need to declare pre-existing medical conditions 
with the travel insurance provider before  they were covered. So I can understand why theyre  
concerned that they havent done this. But theyve  also said they didnt know  about the travel 
insurance at all. And with that in mind, I expect they mightve had a different travel insurance policy in 
place, at least  for some  of the time.
I can see from RBS  records that Mrs F made two claims under the Royalties Premier accounts travel 
insurance policy  one in October 2004 and one in May 2005. I know Mrs F says that if shed  known 
about the policy shed  have made a claim when  her bag was stolen in Italy in 2005,  but I think its 
possible she mightve  indeed  made that claim  even if she cant now remember it.
Mr and Mrs F also had a large overdraft,  and had taken a number of loans  with RBS. Theyd  have  
benefitted from receiving preferential  interest rates on their overdraft, which was often in the 
thousands, and also theyd most likely  have  received  preferential interest rates  on their loans, too. So 
I think  this is likely something they discussed when  they upgraded their account, and possibly 
something that mightve made them think that the Royalties Premier account  was an offer to 
recognise their loyalty.
Having carefully thought about this part of their complaint, like our adjudicator, I think that Mr and Mrs 
F were  interested  in at least some of the benefits  of the Royalties Premier account, and chose it 
because of these benefits. They may not have used or needed all of the benefits, and I do understand 
that with hindsight  they might not feel the account has been good value for money to them. But this 
doesnt mean  RBS mis-sold the account.  
I also accept that its possible that RBS didnt  tell Mr and Mrs F everything it should have about  the 
Royalties Premier  account.  But for the reasons Ive explained, I havent seen enough  to make me 
think that Mr and Mrs F wouldnt still have taken the account, even if RBS had told them more about 
it. 
I want  to reassure Mr and Mrs F that Ive looked at all the information I have about  their complaint. 
And Ive thought  about everything  theyve said. But having done so I dont think RBS mis-sold the 
Royalties Premier  account to them.  So I dont think it needs to return any of the fees they paid for it.
Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs F say they initially raised their complaint in 2017,  but RBS didnt  
respond to it. And they say theyve had to chase numerous times.
Ive seen RBS records and I can see it did respond to Mr and Mrs F in 2017,  when it asked them for 
some further information. It also tried to call them twice, and sent a Final Response Letter. Mr and 
Mrs F then raised  the complaint again in 2018.  It looks as though RBS tried to call them  twice again 
during its investigation, but it was unable to speak to them. It also asked for some further information 
by post, which it says it didnt receive.
Im unsure why the communications havent reached Mr and Mrs F but it looks as though RBS did 
send them, to the right place, as well as calling  the numbers  it had on file for Mr and Mrs F. So whilst I 
acknowledge this wouldve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs F, I cant conclude that it was because  
RBS did something wrong.
Ref: DRN1751447