K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Hyperformance  Ltd (a broker) gave him poor service when he tried to 
change the car insured on his motor  insurance policy. That led Mr K to cancel it, and he 
thinks he was charged too much  for that.
background 
Mr K emailed Hyperformance on 16 September 2018 to say he was going  to change his car. 
He gave it details  of the car and the dealership he was buying it from. A few days later Mr K 
got a text asking  him to call Hyperformance.  When he did so, the advisor said more  details  
of the car were needed,  but as the insurer  was closed, he couldnt get a quote for Mr K. He 
said hed try to call Mr K back the next day, but didnt do so.
Mr K called again and spoke  to advisor J. She told Mr K that Hyperformance couldnt  trace  
the registration number hed provided for the new car. She said he needed to provide other  
correct details for the car in order  to get a quote. Mr K didnt find the advisor helpful. 
Eventually he said he was going  to make  a complaint and ended  the call. He then insured 
the car elsewhere  and cancelled the policy. He wasnt happy with the service he got from 
Hyperformance, the cancellation charges or its response to his complaint. It didnt think it 
had done anything wrong, but offered to reduce its cancellation charge by £25. 
Mr K then complained to us. Our investigator  didnt think Hyperformance had given Mr K an 
acceptable level of service. He was able to locate Mr Ks car using the details  hed put in his 
original email to Hyperformance. He said it should waive  its £75 cancellation charge and pay 
Mr K £100  for distress and inconvenience. Initially, Mr K didnt think that was enough.  He 
thought hed been charged too much for the cover hed had, but later accepted that wasnt  
due to Hyperformance. It then agreed  to waive the full cancellation  charge, but it thought £50 
compensation was enough. It asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that as Mr Ks car was new and initially hadnt yet been  registered, it wasnt  
possible for Hyperformance to find it using  the registration number. Mr K did what he could 
to give Hyperformance extra details of the car when  he first emailed it. He also provided a 
link to the dealership  that supplied the car, in case any further details were needed. 
I think Mr Ks expectations were raised when the first advisor  he spoke to said hed try to call 
him back.  Mr K had asked for a call as hed found  it hard to get through to Hyperformance.  
Given the volume of inbound calls, I think the promise of a call to him was unrealistic. But 
Mr K was disappointed when it didnt happen. He then faced more  long waiting times.
When he got through to advisor  J, Mr K found  the call with her very difficult. Having listened 
to the call recording, I can see why. Mr K asked advisor J more  than once  to lower the 
volume, as her voice was distorted. She took no notice of his request and didnt even 
acknowledge it. She also resisted his attempts to speak to a manager later on in the call.
I think its clear  that Mr K simply  didnt  follow  why the details hed given Hyperformance 
werent enough, especially after the car was registered. I think  advisor J was abrupt and 
Ref: DRN13686622lacked patience from start to finish. I dont  think she explained matters clearly.  I found it hard 
at times to follow what she was trying  to get across  to Mr K. So I can see why he struggled 
to understand  exactly what  extra details were  required. She told him hed given 
Hyperformance the wrong details, but actually  the details were correct,  but not complete. 
She also said hed given her the wrong  registration  number. In fact, the error was hers, as 
shed recorded  what he said incorrectly. 
Mr K was so frustrated by the poor service he was given by Hyperformance that he looked 
for insurance  elsewhere. It seems the business he got the other policy  from had no problem  
locating the cars details. I think Hyperformance could have done more to assist Mr K. Had it 
dealt with him more  sympathetically, I think thats  likely  to have prevented  the cancellation. 
I can see why Mr K thought he was charged too much on cancellation. But Hyperformance 
has explained that most of the charges were  due to the insurer  and the interest owing  to the 
finance firm. When he bought the policy, Mr K was told about  the £75 charge Hyperformance  
would make on cancellation. Its terms of business also showed that information. Since then, 
Hyperformance has agreed to waive its cancellation  charge and pay Mr K £50. But I think 
£100 compensation would better  reflect the distress and inconvenience  he faced as a result 
of its poor service. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hyperformance Ltd to waive the 
£75 cancellation  charge  (as it has already agreed to do) and pay Mr K £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1368662