K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Zurich Insurance PLC wont refund him under his car hire insurance 
policy for a loss of use charge applied by a rental  company.  
background
Mr D took out excess insurance for a hire car. He was unfortunately involved in an accident 
and the rental company charged  him for repairs, an administration fee and for loss of use of 
the car whilst it was being repaired. Mr D made  a claim  to Zurich and it refunded him the 
repair costs and admin fee, but not the loss of use charge. It said this wasnt  provided by the 
policy. Mr D was unhappy with this as he thought such cover was standard and it hadnt 
been brought to his attention.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought the 
policy didnt provide cover for loss of use. So he didnt think Zurich needed to refund  Mr D for 
this charge.
Mr D replied that he wanted his case reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come  to me for a 
final decision. He raised concerns that the policy may have been mis-sold. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rental company  charged Mr D £525  for three  days loss of use of the car whilst  it was 
being repaired. Zurich said Mr Ds excess insurance policy  didnt cover  any charges made 
by the rental  company for any period that the rental  car couldnt be hired out. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
As Mr D has pointed  out, this is a significant  limitation of cover.  So I would expect  it to be set 
out in the summary or Key Facts document to bring  it to the consumers  attention. And I can 
see that the exclusion is set out in Section 4 of Mr Ds policy  summary  under What is not 
insured. So I think the exclusion  was made  reasonably  clear  in the policy  documents.
Mr D said he thought  hed taken out the policy over the phone  but he couldnt recall this 
exclusion being brought to his attention. But I wouldnt  expect the agent  to go through  all the 
policy details in that call. Zurich explained that the policy documents  were sent to Mr D when  
he took out the policy. So he could  have checked  them then to see if the level of cover  suited  
his needs. So I havent seen evidence  that the policy was mis-sold. 
I can also see that there is an optional extra that Mr D could have bought  that provides for 
loss of use of the rental car. But I cant see that Mr D bought this option. I dont think Zurich 
was obliged to tell Mr D of other options  for extra cover  unless  he asked for them.
Mr D thought that the exclusion was unfair  as loss of use would follow a car being  repaired 
following an accident.  But I think its for Zurich to decide the risks it wishes to cover  and the 
terms and conditions of its policy. So I cant say the exclusion  was unfair.  
Ref: DRN13117632So I think the exclusion is clearly set out in the policy terms and conditions and was 
sufficiently brought  to Mr Ds attention. I think it was fair and reasonable for Zurich to apply it. 
So I dont  require Zurich  to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1311763