K821x#15complaint
Mr O has complained that Metro Bank Plc wont refund a withdrawal where  he says the cash  
did not dispense.
what happened
On 16 July 2018, Mr O tried to withdraw  £200 from a cash machine, but his card had an 
error. Both sides accept  that he did not get the cash  on his first withdrawal attempt.
Mr O then tried a different  cash  machine nearby, again trying  to withdraw £200. He says he 
got an error again, and he called Metro straight afterwards to report what had happened.
Metro raised a chargeback, then held Mr O liable for the second  withdrawal,  saying it had 
evidence from the ATMs owner  that the cash machine didnt have an error. When the 
machine was checked, it had £50 extra in it, but Metro  said that as this was less than the 
£200 in dispute, they still thought Mr Os second withdrawal was probably  successful.
Mr O came to our service and our investigator  looked into things independently. He asked 
Metro for more information to show what happened during the withdrawals, but Metro  
refused, saying it had done what it needed  to under the chargeback  rules.  Our investigator 
upheld the complaint, saying the cash machine hadnt balanced properly,  he didnt have 
sufficient information  to conclude there were no errors, Mr Os behaviour fit with him not 
receiving the cash, and his testimony  was consistent across his phone calls. 
Metro didnt agree, so the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Thinking about  whats fair and reasonable, I think that in order  to hold Mr O liable for this 
withdrawal, Metro should be able to show it was entitled to debit it from his account.
Both sides accept that Mr Os first withdrawal attempt did not go through,  and Metro has not 
held him liable for that.
Metro has provided some  basic information from the second cash machines owner,  which 
appears to show that the second withdrawal  went through. But it only provides a brief 
overview of what happened, and its difficult for me to be satisfied that everything  worked  as 
it should have  when Ive been  given such little detail.
Further, the cash machine did not balance, having an extra £50 in it. This is less than the 
£200 Mr O tried to withdraw,  and I understand Metros point. But the balancing  period  was a 
whole week, which is quite a significant  length  of time in these particular  circumstances. 
There was room for other errors to have offset  any error with Mr Os withdrawal. And it 
shows that the machine did not dispense all the cash it was supposed  to during that 
balancing period.
Ref: DRN10390972Our investigator asked  Metro to get more  detailed relevant information to support its position.  
But it declined to do so, saying it had done what  it needed  to under the chargeback  rules.  
I would remind Metro  that it is required to comply with our investigations, and the chargeback 
rules are not relevant in that regard. Further, we take account of the relevant  rules, but 
ultimately look at things based on whats fair and reasonable.
I gave Metro another opportunity to support its arguments that the second  cash  machine 
worked properly. It now says that its too late to get the relevant information.  But it was not 
too late when  our investigator  asked, and Metro delayed the case by failing to comply with 
our investigation. So if it is now too late, I think thats a result  of Metros own actions.
So Im not satisfied that the cash machine was working properly in this particular situation. 
Further, Im not satisfied that Mr Os Metro  card was working properly either.
Both sides accept that the first withdrawal  attempt was declined due to an error with Mr Os 
card. While the second withdrawal was approved, the card report shows a decline message 
which seems consistent with a transaction not completing properly. Metro  says that since the 
second withdrawal  was ultimately approved,  we should ignore  this error message. But it has 
not provided any explanation beyond that, so Im not satisfied that I should  ignore it. Mr Os 
card had an error in trying  to make the first withdrawal, so it seems very relevant that it 
appeared to have an error during the second withdrawal too.
After Mr Os card was declined in the first withdrawal, he immediately tried to withdraw the 
£200 again at a cash machine right nearby.  He says he got an error message again, and 
I can see he phoned Metro straight  after the second withdrawal to report what happened.  He 
says he then borrowed money from a friend to make up for the money  he didnt receive. This 
all seems to fit with him not receiving the £200 on either occasion. Mr Os testimony has 
been consistent and credible throughout  his complaint to Metro and our service, and I dont 
see any compelling reason for me to doubt  what hes said.
In summary,  because of the way Metro handled  this complaint, I do not have sufficient 
information to conclude that the second cash machine  was working  properly. The evidence 
shows that Mr Os card was having errors, and may have had an error  during the second  
withdrawal. And Mr Os behaviour and testimony  is consistent with him not receiving the 
£200 on either occasion. So while I understand Metros point of view,  I think on the balance 
of probabilities it is most likely that Mr O did not receive the £200  in dispute, either because 
of a problem with the ATM or Metros card. And so I dont  think its fair for Metro  to hold him 
liable for the second withdrawal.
putting things right
Metro Bank  Plc should:
refund  the £200 withdrawal in dispute;  and-
pay simple  interest to Mr O on the withdrawal,  at the rate of 8% simple a year,  
payable from the date it was debited until the date its returned. This is to 
compensate Mr O for the time he was without his money.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Metro to take off tax from this simple interest.  Metro  must  give 
Mr O a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN10390973my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint, and direct Metro  Bank  Plc to put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1039097