K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Metro Bank plc closed her account and recorded a CIFAS marker 
against her name. CIFAS is the UKs  fraud alert service, and Miss H says that the marker 
has made it difficult for her to open an account  elsewhere.  
background
In or around April 2017 Miss H opened an account  with Metro Bank. She didnt use it very 
much, but at the end of June a payment of £13,000 was made to it. Later  that day and the 
following day virtually all the money  in the account was removed  by two online transfers 
and two cash machine  withdrawals. 
A few days  later Metro  Bank received a report from the bank from which the payment had 
been made. It said that its customer had been the victim of a scam and the payment to Miss 
Hs account had therefore been  fraudulent.  Metro  Bank closed her account and recorded the 
CIFAS marker.  
Miss H didnt think this was fair. She said she knew nothing about the payment to her 
account. She also said that she had lost her card at around the same  time. And, when it was 
pointed out that the online  payments would have required  a code sent to her mobile phone, 
she suggested that her then boyfriend  might have  had access  to it. 
Miss H referred her complaint to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. He 
thought Miss H probably knew about  the payment  to her account and the payment from it. 
He didnt recommend  that Metro Bank remove the CIFAS marker or do anything  else to 
resolve the matter.  Miss H didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Im satisfied first of all that the payment to Miss Hs account was, indeed,  fraudulent.  The 
bank from which the money was sent has investigated that payment and concluded that its 
customer was a fraud victim. 
That doesnt, of itself, mean that Miss H knew about  it though.  The investigator concluded 
that she did, but it is of course possible to transfer  funds  into an account without the 
recipients knowledge;  all thats needed  is the account number and sort code. 
In considering whether or to what extent Miss H was involved in the fraud, it is, in my view,  
more instructive to consider the transfers and withdrawals from the account.  
As Ive indicated, there were two online payments made on the same  day as the inward 
payment. It appears that one was made to someone  to whom a small payment had been 
made just over a week earlier. The other was made to someone to whom a payment had 
been made about six weeks earlier.  Miss H said however that she didnt recognise the 
names of either of the payees.
Ref: DRN14494742Metro Bank  has said that one of the recipients of the funds was set up as a payee on Miss 
Hs account on 17 May, the other  on 21 June, the dates of the previous payments. Whoever  
set up those payees to make  those payments would have  needed Miss Hs banking details, 
including her customer number or username,  password and security number, as well as 
access to Miss Hs bank card. A security  code would have been  sent to her registered 
telephone number. 
Miss H hasnt indicated  how anyone might have had access  to that much information about  
her and her account, save to say that her boyfriend  might have had access to her phone.  I 
note too that she didnt  raise any query  about  the payment  on 17 May,  even  though its likely 
she was aware of it before the £13,000  payment at the end of June; it was on her bank 
statement covering  the period to the end of May. 
It may be that Miss H didnt personally  benefit  from the fraudulent payment to her account or 
from the subsequent transfers  and withdrawals from it. But I believe she knows very much 
more about them than shes told Metro Bank or this service. I believe too that, if she didnt 
make the transfers  and withdrawals herself,  shes knowingly allowed someone else to use 
her account.  In the circumstances,  it wouldnt be fair to require Metro Bank to remove  the 
CIFAS marker  or do anything more to resolve her complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1449474