K821x#15complaint
Mr CB on behalf of his son Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a loan with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance.
background
Mr B says he went to the garage with his father to buy a car. The car cost just over £19,000 
which his father paid for with his credit card.  He says he then agreed  to take out a three 
year warranty. He thought  he was funding it through a direct debit that he could cancel at 
any time. But when  he went to cancel a few months later,  he found hed signed up to a four 
year loan with Santander  Consumer Finance.
Mr B says he and his father didnt want to use a loan to fund this purchase, which was why 
his father  paid for the car with his credit  card. And if they didnt need a loan to pay for the 
cost of the car then they wouldnt  have  wanted  a loan for the warranty,  which was much 
cheaper. He points out that as soon as they found out this was a loan, it was paid off in full 
which shows they could  have paid for the warranty without a loan at the time. Hes also said 
loan was for 4 years,  but the warranty was only for three, which wouldnt be logical. 
Mr B agreed the loan agreement was signed  with this e-signature  but says he provided  all 
his details to the sales  representative  who completed the form and he didnt  actually see it 
at the time. He also says he wasnt given any information about  the terms and conditions  
and feels he was misled  into taking out the loan. Hed now like Santander  Consumer 
Finance to cancel  the loan agreement and refund the amount paid to settle the loan early.
But Santander said the loan was e-signed at the time using information  that could only have 
come from Mr B. It also said it was clear from the sales invoice that the warranty  was to be 
funded by a loan, so it didnt agree Mr B wouldnt have known this was the case.  And it 
pointed out that the Mr B would have  been  sent an introductory letter explaining  the loan and 
its terms and conditions.  It didnt  agree the loan was mis-sold or that Mr B was misled.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. She said that on balance  she accepted his 
explanation as to why he thought hed taken  out a warranty, not a loan, and why he didnt  
need a loan so wouldnt have chosen this option  in any event.  And although Mr B had 
provided his details for the document she accepted that hed done so on the basis  that this 
was to set up a direct debit and that he hadnt  seen the actual documents at the time. 
On balance, she felt Mr B hadnt  been aware  he was entering into a loan agreement.  For 
that reason she thought it fair to put him back in the position he would have been if the 
agreement hadnt  been set up. So she recommended Santander:
a)cancel the loan agreement and remove all details of the loan from Mr Bs credit  file.
 
b)refund  £2,406.11 to Mr B, being  the difference between what  hed actually paid to 
settle and what  hed have expected to pay if it had been a warranty  (i.e. 3 months 
payments). Interest  should be added to this refund at 8% simple  calculated from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement.
Santander disagreed and said in summary:
The order form signed on the day included the words top up loan £2,499 
Ref: DRN19263862The sum of £2,499 was written under the words Finance due on the invoice and 
the notes section stated Top-up Loan. This had been signed  on the day, and not 
electronically.
It didnt agree he wouldnt have known the warranty  was to be funded  by a loan and 
said that during  the on-line signature stage Mr B would have had to answer security 
questions that only hed have known the answers to. It also noted the loan was set 
up over 4 years to ensure a lower  monthly  repayment and to help Mr B, which  is why 
it ran for longer than the 3-year warranty it was paying for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen what Santander and Mr B have said about what happened.  Its clear they disagree 
on a number of points so I should  explain that where theres no information  on any particular 
point or the information available is incomplete or contradictory, then Ive made my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities.
In this case Mr B went to the garage with his father. Mr B has made the point that they 
signed different  documents at different times  but it seems clear  from what  Ive seen that 
Mr B and his father were in effect making a joint purchase - even if they individually paid for 
separate items. They  went  to the garage together, they chose the car together and the 
subsequent order  form and invoice included all items, both the car and the warranty.  For that 
reason, although  Im only looking at the loan agreement  taken out by Mr B, I think  its 
reasonable to believe  theyd have  both known what was being discussed and would have 
had the opportunity to see the various  documents on the day.
This has been a finely balanced decision. Mr B has said very clearly that the reason his 
father paid for the car with his card on the day was precisely because they didnt want a loan 
and that also applied to the warranty. Hes also made the point that as soon as they realised 
this was a loan, they took steps to pay it off straight away - showing  that they could have 
done so at the time.
Against that Santander says its clear from the paperwork that a loan was being  taken out 
and that the documents  were properly signed  on the day. Its pointed  out that, in order to 
sign the loan documents  electronically, Mr B would have had to provide answers  to a 
number of detailed  questions involving his identity that only he could have known.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also taken into account that Mr B made  payments to 
Santander under the loan for two months  before  he raised his complaint. It seems  he simply 
didnt notice but its reasonable to think that if hed spotted this sooner, then any confusion 
could have been resolved  sooner and Santander Consumer Finance isnt responsible for 
that.
Having said that, however,  Im not persuaded that Mr B intended to take out a loan. His 
father had paid the full price of the car, (£19,050) on his card on the day. And having  done 
so, it seems surprising that Mr B would then take out a loan for the much smaller amount of 
£2,499.
Ive also taken into account Mr Bs action  when he went to cancel  the warranty. He first 
contacted the warranty  company, not Santander.  He was clearly  surprised  to find this was 
Ref: DRN19263863loan not a simple  warranty and, when he did realise,  he immediately took steps  for it to be 
paid off in full straight away. Its a difficult decision but looking at all the circumstances of this 
case, it seems to me that Mr B didnt intend  to fund this purchase by way of a loan - and that 
he didnt want such a loan. Further Mr B and his father have been very clear  and consistent 
that Mr B wasnt given any loan documents on the day and that he didnt receive  the 
welcome pack later which adds weight to his view that he wasnt  aware  this was a loan and 
not a warranty.
And as a separate issue, I note that in this case the warranty was for three years while the 
loan was for 4 years.  In other words Mr B would still have been  paying off the loan when he 
no longer had the benefit of the warranty. That doesnt make the loan invalid in itself but in 
those circumstances  Id expect to see a very clear explanation of the risks and benefits so 
that Mr B fully understood what he was signing up to and in this case  I havent  seen  anything  
to show that was done.
However I dont agree  with Mr B that he was deliberately misled into taking out the loan. 
Even if the words top up loan hadnt been written onto the sales invoice,  Mr B would, in 
general, have received  a welcome  pack from Santander to confirm the loan and its details. In 
this case Mr B didnt receive  this but the pack is correctly addressed so Ive no reason to 
doubt it was sent and nothing to show that the dealership could have  known it wouldnt 
arrive. And if it had, any mistake would  have become clear straight away which would have 
allowed Mr B to withdraw from the loan without penalty. On that basis Ive seen nothing to 
show there was any deliberate misrepresentation by the dealership  in setting up this loan.
In the circumstances, Ive decided  its fair and reasonable to put Mr B back  in the position  he 
would have been in if he hadnt taken out this loan. That is Santander  Consumer Finance 
should cancel  the agreement as if it never  existed and remove  the details of the loan from 
Mr Bs credit  file. It should also refund the difference between the amount paid to settle the 
loan agreement and what Mr B would have paid if he was paying for the warranty  monthly  as 
he believed  he was. 
By my calculations, the total amount paid to Santander Consumer Finance was £2,610.86, 
made up of three payments of £68.25  plus the early settlement figure of £2,406.11. As Mr B 
had the benefit of the warranty for three  months, the 3 monthly payments should be 
deducted from the total, leaving  a balance of £2,406.11. This should now be refunded to 
Mr B together with statutory interest at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct  Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance to:
Cancel the loan agreement and remove all evidence of the loan from Mr Bs credit 
file.
Refund Mr B £2,406.11 together with statutory interest at 8% from date of payment to 
the date of settlement
.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Ref: DRN19263864Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1926386