K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about her home insurer, esure Insurance  Limited (Esure). It handled 
a claim for her following an escape  of water. She thinks it did work  poorly, caused more  
damage and made an insufficient settlement for her damaged contents items.
background
Mrs B had an incident in October 2017 when  the sink tap wouldnt switch off and the waste 
pipe leaked water everywhere. Mrs B didnt know where the stopcock was and her home 
emergency insurer took six hours to get a plumber to attend her home.  
Mrs B made a claim to Esure  because her bathroom  and bedrooms, as well as the rooms  
below had been soaked. Many contents items were affected as well. Esure  appointed 
contractors to dry the house and agreed  a sum to allow Mrs B and her son to stay with 
friends. But it had reservations  about  the claim and it began  investigating  matters.  
By January 2018 Esure was satisfied it should  settle  the claim. Reinstatement work was 
carried out but Mrs B said Esures tiler had caused a further  leak, and later that it had 
caused her toilet to become blocked. Whilst Mrs B was initially happy with the decorating 
Esure carried out, she later complained about  the paint finish.  She also said the kitchen 
cupboards had been put back onto mouldy  walls.  Regarding her contents claim she said 
shed given figures for all the items  but Esure had then reduced most of these,  meaning  her 
settlement was around £10,000 short. She said there were some  items that hadnt  been 
given any figure at all by Esure.  Mrs B said Esures handling of the claim had caused  her a 
lot of upset.
Esure said it hadnt caused any leaks, the paint  finish was as expected and the kitchen 
cupboards hadnt  been  put back onto damaged walls. Regarding the contents  claim it said 
Mrs B hadnt  substantiated the figures  shed asked for, but it accepted that some items were  
outstanding and it would look at these  again. Esure didnt feel any compensation was 
warranted. Mrs B complained to us.
Our investigator felt the expert evidence showed that Esure hadnt caused  the problem with 
the toilet and that even  if its tiler had caused the second leak, no further damage had been 
caused as a result. He didnt think there was any evidence of poor work.  He noted Esure  
was going to review  the contents  items it hadnt so far offered any settlement for and felt the 
amount offered already  had likely  been  fair for the items it applied to. He also noted  Mrs B 
hadnt shown  it was unfair or unreasonable. Our investigator accepted that this had been a 
difficult time for Mrs B but explained that as he hadnt found Esure had failed her in anyway, 
he couldnt reasonably require it to pay compensation.
Mrs B was unhappy with the findings.  The complaint was passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for any 
upset this causes  Mrs B, Im not upholding her complaint.
Ref: DRN16988012issues of poor repair
Ive seen some photos Mrs B has provided  showing what she sees  as a poor paint finish.  Im 
not persuaded the finish shown in those pictures is unreasonable.  Esures  loss adjuster 
wasnt convinced there was poor work  and Mrs B hasnt provided  any expert opinion to 
counter that. 
Mrs B has shown  mould under the sink. Esure has said it didnt put cupboards back  on 
damaged walls. I have  no way to know if the mould was likely there when the cupboards  
were put back  or if it occurred since. There is a photo of the kitchen during the strip-out  
work and that doesnt suggest  any mould  is present then.  And all of the expert commentary 
about the damage suggests that water came through  the ceiling and didnt affect  the walls, 
which have a tiled finish. Esures  loss adjuster  didnt  think there was evidence  of poor work 
in this respect by the contractors, and I havent  seen any expert evidence from Mrs B to 
counter that.
further leaks
Mrs B did provide a plumbers report which suggested  the removal and re-fitting of the toilet  
may have  caused  the water levels to fall leading to a blockage. But the plumber  also 
comments that, if this was the case,  it was linked  to the waste  pipe having an incorrect  fall. 
Esures adjuster also noted  the incorrect fall on the pipe and felt this was the cause of the 
blockage. Its reported the pipe wasnt removed  or moved in the course  of the bathroom 
repair, and the photos Ive seen  seem to support that. As both experts are satisfied the pipe 
was likely the cause  of the blockage,  I cant reasonably blame  Esure for that.
From what  Ive seen it isnt clear whether the tiler did cause the second  leak.  But it is 
acknowledged he was the last one to remove and refit the sanitary items where  the leak 
emanated from. However, in any event, it doesnt  seem as though the leak caused any 
further damage or caused any delay to the repair work. I appreciate  it must have been  
distressing for Mrs B to see another leak but I cant reasonably blame  Esure  for that upset 
(when it isnt clear that its contractor caused  the problem).
contents
Esure has said it will review the items on its list that were attributed  a nil value. I think  thats  
reasonable and wont  comment on this issue further.
Esure also reduced the value of many items  Mrs B had asked it to settle  for. It said there 
was no substantiation provided  for any items. 
Mrs Bs items werent stolen  they were there for Esure  to assess. But that doesnt 
necessarily mean that seeing an item allows a conclusion  to be drawn about their quality, 
make/model and/or where they were  purchased from.  All of these factors and more can be 
important in assessing value. And importantly can make a big difference  in terms of what  it 
will cost to replace items. Mrs B thinks many items are worth far more  than the price  Esure  
has allowed.  But I havent seen  anything to make me think  Esures  price for suggested 
replacements  based on similar items from a mainstream retailer  is likely unreasonable or 
doesnt reflect the items Mrs B had that were damaged. 
compensation
Ref: DRN16988013I understand this situation was very distressing for Mrs B. But I havent seen that Esure 
caused that upset by acting unreasonably.  I think  the claim progressed  in a timely manner. 
Esure had some concerns  at the outset but I can understand why it wanted  to validate the 
claim further. I think it did that reasonably and in a reasonable time. Likewise with repairs  
once those started.  
Having an incident  that leads to a claim will naturally be distressing, and a claim will entail an 
amount of unavoidable inconvenience. I dont require insurers  to pay compensation for that. 
I do require an insurer to compensate a policyholder when theyve been caused  distress and 
inconvenience by its failures. I havent  seen that Esure  failed Mrs B here so I wont  be asking  
it to pay any compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.   I dont make any award against esure Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1698801