K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont communicate with him in Welsh about  his 
business bank  account.
background
Mr E made a complaint to Lloyds  about  a chargeback  on his business  account. He wrote  to 
them in Welsh about this, having noticed  the Welsh language policy  on their website. This 
says they welcome  letters  in Welsh  and will respond in Welsh.
Lloyds told Mr E they wouldnt in fact correspond with him in Welsh about  his complaint.
Mr E made a further complaint to Lloyds about this. They told him theyre happy to deal with 
personal customers in Welsh, but not business account holders.  And they pointed out the 
terms and conditions of their business  accounts.  These say correspondence  and any 
information Lloyds  provide  will be in English.
Mr E wasnt  happy with Lloyds answer  and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought Lloyds had done nothing wrong.
Mr E disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman. He wants  Lloyds to act 
in accordance with their own policy and conduct their business with him in Welsh.  And he 
wants compensation for his trouble and upset.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to be clear at the outset that our role in handling a complaint is to decide  
whether the business has acted fairly and reasonably towards the particular individual  
customer. 
If the business has done something wrong,  then well decide what  steps  they need to take to 
put things right. That will usually mean the business addressing any detriment or loss the 
customer has suffered and, where  possible, putting them back  in the position  theyd have  
been in had the error not occurred.
So, our focus is on the individual  customer making  the complaint  and on any loss or 
detriment they may have  suffered. Its not for us to comment more broadly on a businesss 
policies or procedures as such.  Thats something  for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
as the regulator, to consider.
As I understand it, Lloyds are not under a legal obligation to provide services in the Welsh  
language. There  are certain  obligations  placed on public bodies - and on some utility 
providers  in this respect,  but they dont apply to banks or other commercial organisations.
As Mr E suggests, Lloyds  Welsh language policy does say that they welcome 
correspondence in Welsh. Its not clear  from the policy  itself  or from any contextual  
information on Lloyds  website  that this only applies  to personal accounts.
Ref: DRN18239412However, as Lloyds say, the terms and conditions which apply to Lloyds business accounts  
say clearly that correspondence will be in English and information  provided by Lloyds will be 
in English. 
So, Im assuming Lloyds  intention  was that the policy available  on their website should  apply  
to personal accounts  but not to business accounts. I dont think  theyve  made that clear, but 
any changes they may want  to make are a matter for them.
Lloyds decision not to correspond in Welsh  on business accounts is a commercial decision 
 and one I believe  they are entitled  to make. I also take into account that Mr E was aware of 
the terms and conditions applying to his account  when he took it out  or should have been.
As I say, its not for us to take issue with Lloyds  policies  and procedures  in and of 
themselves. Our role is to consider whether Lloyds actions  in this particular case   have 
been unfair or unreasonable  and whether theyve led to any detriment for the individual  
customer.
Mr Es previous correspondence with Lloyds was in English. His correspondence  with us is 
in English. He appears to be proficient in English. 
Mr E tells us he prefers to use Welsh and is more comfortable in that language.  And he 
originally told us he had had to use a translator  to assist in his correspondence with Lloyds  
at some cost.
When we asked for details, it became apparent that the individual Mr E had paid wasnt a 
translator. Rather, hed been  used by Mr E to provide advice on the Welsh  Language Act 
and on his dispute with Lloyds. So, Im not convinced that Mr E needs  a translator to 
communicate effectively  in English.
Taking all of this into account,  on balance I cant see that Mr E has been  disadvantaged  in 
any significant way by Lloyds insistence  on corresponding with him in English. And I cant 
say its unfair or unreasonable for them to do so  in line with the terms and conditions which 
apply to Mr Es account.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1823941