K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes their agents.
In bringing his complaint Mr B has been  assisted by his mother who has made 
representations on his behalf.  But, for ease, I will refer to her comments  as being those of  
Mr B.
background
Mr B took out a telematics  (also  known as a black  box) policy with RSA in July 2017. In 
February 2018, RSA cancelled  the policy because they said Mr B had exceeded the speed 
limit on at least four separate occasions.  They said speeding amounted to unacceptable 
driving behaviour  under the policy.
Mr B complained. He said the policy terms werent  clear enough  as it didnt explain what  
poor driving on multiple occasions  meant.  He said if RSA had specified  a number instead 
of multiple  occasions  he would have had a clearer idea of what  to expect and wouldnt 
have taken out the policy. And had they given him enough information he could have 
rectify/remedy my driving readings . He said he didnt dispute  the black  box data about  the 
instances of speeding.
RSA didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint so he asked us to look into it. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She felt that RSA hadnt provided  enough evidence  to show what the speed 
limit was in relation to two of the four instances  of speeding. RSA provided further evidence 
at which  point our investigator  was satisfied that RSA were reasonable in concluding Mr B 
had exceeded  the speed limit on three of the four occasions. But as she wasnt satisfied  that 
RSA had provided enough  evidence  for the fourth  incident, she recommended that the 
complaint be upheld. As RSA didnt agree with our investigator,  the complaint  was passed to 
me to decide.
In issued a provisional decision on 27 May 2020.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, but Im not intending  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr B has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all 
those very carefully.  But, in this decision,  I will focus on what  I consider to be the key 
issues.
the four instances of speeding
On the evidence provided by RSA, including the technical evidence provided  by the 
telematics provider, Im satisfied that Mr B did exceed the speed  limit on all four 
occasions as specified by RSA. Those  occasions  were on 20 November 2017, 5 and 
15 December 2017 and 27 January 2018.
Ref: DRN14127132Our investigator wasnt satisfied that RSA had provided enough evidence to show the 
incident on 15 December  2017, where RSA said Mr B drove at 44 mph, was on a 
30mph road. RSA said the road where Mr B exceeded the speed limit was a 30mph 
road and they provided a photo of the road and data from the black  box. The photo  
shows a single carriageway with street  lighting. And Im aware  that the Highway 
Code says that the 30mph limit usually applies to all traffic on all roads with street 
lighting unless signs show otherwise.
Although Mr B initially said he didnt dispute the speeding as RSA evidence,  he later 
said he didnt think the road where  he is said to have driven at 57mph had a 40mph 
limit. He said that was a 60mph road. But in addition to the technical  information 
provided by RSA they have also supplied a photo of the relevant road that shows  a 
40mph sign. Im therefore satisfied that the information given by RSA about the four 
occasions of speeding are accurate.
policy terms and cancellation
Mr Bs policy  said:
Unacceptable Driving  Behaviour
The telematics device  in your car collects information about the way your car 
is being driven. If we identify examples  of poor driving you will be warned 
either by phone, in writing, by email  or via the secure area of the [insurers]  
website about  future  driving conduct.
If during any one annual period of insurance  we identify examples of poor 
driving on multiple occasions or an unacceptable driving event, we reserve  
the right to cancel your insurance by giving you at least  seven  days  notice 
either in writing to your last known address or by email.
RSA said that they say multiple  occasions rather than specify a number of 
occasions of unacceptable driving  because the number of occasions that can lead to 
cancellation will depend  on the nature of the bad driving behaviour. That means,  for 
example, eight occasions of exceeding  the speed  limit by around five miles an hour 
could lead to cancellation but also two occasions of exceeding the speed limit by 
over 20 mph could lead to cancellation. I therefore  dont think the wording of the 
policy was unfair or unreasonable.
And where  a black box policy is involved I expect an insurer  to give the policyholder 
sufficient notice and information about the driving  behaviour that gives rise to 
concern. Thats important because the policyholder  should be made aware  of the 
insurers concerns and be given an opportunity to correct their driving behaviour.  And 
I can see in this case that is what RSA did that.
In his complaint  email  to RSA Mr B accepted  that he received three  messages 
regarding the excessive speeding and that each message  asked him to refer to an 
email. When he later called RSA they gave him the details of the occasions he was 
speeding. I think those  messages  gave Mr B enough information to be aware that 
RSA were concerned  with his driving because  he was speeding. He could have 
therefore adapted his driving to avoid the cancellation but he didnt. RSA then gave 
notice in line with the policy and cancelled it. As RSA followed their policy  terms I 
dont think theyve done anything wrong. 
Ref: DRN14127133The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Neither Mr B nor RSA commented.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and given neither Mr B 
nor RSA made any comments in response to my provisional decision,  my findings remain  
the same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2019.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1412713