K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont refund transactions  which  he says he 
didnt make or authorise.  Mr J also says Nationwide unfairly placed a default on his credit  
file. Mr J wants Nationwide to refund the disputed transactions and remove the default 
marker. 
Background
Mr J had a credit card account with Nationwide for several  years. Between  26 February and 
6 March 2017, it was used  to make six retail purchases totalling just under £4,000. 
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties  are of aware of which 
transactions are in dispute. 
In May 2017, Mr J called  Nationwide to say he didnt make the disputed transactions. He 
said hed only noticed the transactions after a higher than usual direct debit payment for his 
credit card was taken from his bank  account  in April 2017. Mr J told Nationwide that he 
normally only used his credit card to buy petrol for his car and pay bills. And that he has 
never used  the card to withdraw  cash.  
Mr J told Nationwide that the last time hed used his credit card for a chip and PIN 
transaction was on 14 February 2017 when  he bought some jewellery for his sisters  
wedding  this was the last time he says he used the card to make a chip and PIN 
transaction.
He said he normally kept his credit card in his car or in his wallet. And that he had other 
cards in his wallet  which  werent used  fraudulently.  At the time of reporting the transactions,  
Mr J told Nationwide he was still in possession of his credit card. Mr J explained that he 
wasnt sharing his car with anyone else. But he did drive people  around quite a bit. And at 
times his family and friends were  left alone  in his car. He says at times  he has asked  people  
to move his car. But he cant pinpoint  who mightve  been responsible  for the transactions. 
Mr J says his PIN isnt easy to guess.  And he set it to a memorable number some years ago. 
He has never made a written record of his PIN. But says it is possible someone  could  have 
seen him enter his PIN when hes been out with friends. Hes also said that he uses  the 
same PIN across  his cards. So, its possible someone could  have seen his PIN when hes 
used any of his cards and remembered it. Mr J says the most likely explanation  is that his 
card was cloned. 
Mr J says when he contacted Nationwide, he couldnt repay what he owed on his account. 
He says Nationwide shouldnt have applied a default  because of the dispute. In April 2019, 
Mr J repaid £400 (which  was the account  balance before the disputed payments). He says 
Nationwide should  have told him to do this when he contacted them  in May 2017.
Nationwide investigated  and didnt accept Mr Js disputed transaction claim.  It said Mr J had 
authorised the transactions or made them himself because:
Mr J says he hadnt disclosed his PIN to anyone else, it wasnt recorded anywhere  
and wasnt a number  easily  guessed by a third party
the correct PIN was used for the transactions
Mr Js PIN was last changed  in September 2015
Ref: DRN13034972Mr Js genuine card was used to make  the transactions  the chip was read so the 
card wasnt  cloned
the card didnt leave  Mr Js possession and he still had it at the time of raising the 
dispute
Mr J couldnt confirm  where he was on the day of the disputed transactions
None of Mr Js other  accounts were  compromised
Mr J hadnt provided  any plausible explanation as to how his bank card and PIN were 
compromised
there are genuine transactions  between  the ones Mr J disputes which were made on 
6 March 2017 
Mr J didnt notice the transactions  until a higher direct debit payment was collected  
from his account  in April 2017
Mr Js card was blocked on 26 February  2017  to prevent a further payment to a 
retailer. The block also stopped  undisputed  transactions. Nationwide  cant  locate any 
calls or messages from Mr J around  this time to alert it about  these transactions
when Mr J contacted  Nationwide  about it offered him a repayment  plan which  he 
accepted. But Mr J didnt  make  any payments after April 2017  towards  his credit card 
balance, so it issued  a default  notice.
An investigator looked into Mr Js complaint  and asked him some  additional  questions  about 
the payments  and security of his card. Mr J told the investigator that he suspected  one of his 
friends was responsible and that CCTV wouldve helped identify the person. He also 
confirmed that he had used the card on 27 February  and 6 March 2017  to make online (card  
not present) payments. 
Having looked  at the sequence of events, the investigator said it was more  likely than not 
Mr J authorised the disputed transactions. She also said Nationwide  hadnt acted unfairly 
when it defaulted  Mr J. Mr J disagreed. He wants the default removed from his credit file. As 
no agreement could  be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Nationwide is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions  if Mr J didnt make 
or authorise  them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009). Mr J says he didnt make  the payments. And hes 
seeking a refund of just under £4,000. So, my primary  concern  is to come to a view about 
whether I think Mr J authorised the payments. 
Mr J suspects that his credit card was copied or cloned. Nationwides records  show  
however, that the chip embedded in Mr Js card was read.  Whilst it is quite straightforward  to 
copy information from a magnetic  strip on a card and to copy it to a strip on another  card, 
reproducing a card chip is a very different matter. The fact that the chip was read, and the 
transactions were  made is, therefore  a very strong indication that the genuine card was used 
to make the disputed transactions.  So, I dont  believe Mr Js card was cloned. 
Mr J has consistently told Nationwide and us that he didnt keep a record  of his PIN. Hes 
also said that the PIN isnt written down anywhere  and wouldnt have been  easy  to guess. 
So, I think it would be unlikely that whoever had Mr Js card would have been able to guess 
Ref: DRN13034973the PIN. And Im not persuaded by what Mr J has said about someone else becoming aware 
of his PIN and taking  his card.
I say this because  Mr J cant  tell us how or when his credit card could have  been  taken by 
someone else. I also find it unusual for a fraudster to take Mr Js card, use it on 26 February 
2017 and then not use it again until 6 March 2017. I also note that two genuine  transactions 
were made on 5 March  2017 at petrol stations. I think it is unlikely a fraudster would run the 
risk of taking  Mr Js card on two separate occasions.  I also think its unlikely that the 
individual wouldve waited more than 10 days before  trying to use the card again. If a 
fraudster had possession  of Mr Js card, I would expect them to try and maximise the 
available credit at the first available opportunity. And not retake the card which  increased  the 
risk of being  discovered.
From looking  at the evidence, I dont  think  its unreasonable for Nationwide  to conclude  that 
Mr J authorised the transactions. I say this because:
Mr J says he hasnt disclosed his PIN to anyone else. And hasnt recorded it 
anywhere. So, theres no convincing explanation for how an unknown third party  
would know this information
theres also no plausible explanation  for how an unknown third party could take 
Mr Js credit card either from his wallet or inside his car, use it and them  replace  the 
card without being discovered  by Mr J. To do this they wouldve  needed  access  to 
Mr Js car keys and be aware  of where  the card was kept in the car. And more 
importantly when it was in the car and not in Mr Js wallet
Mr J was still in possession of his credit card when he reported the transactions to 
Nationwide in May 2017
the transactions were carried out at retailers close to Mr Js home address
Mr J cant  confirm who had access to his car at the time.  And cant  suggest who was 
responsible
Mr J couldnt confirm  to Nationwide where he was on the days  the disputed  
transactions were  carried out when he called to report the dispute in May 2017
Mr J initially  told Nationwide that the transactions on 5 March 2017  at petrol stations  
were made by him. However,  hes now not sure. But from looking at Mr Js credit  
card statements I can see that Mr J does frequent these petrol stations and has 
carried out genuine transactions. So, I think it is likely he authorised the transactions  
on 5 March 2017.
Mr Js card would  have  needed  to have been taken on two separate occasions  by the 
fraudster, used  and then replaced. Id expect once the card was in the possession  of 
a fraudster that it would be used as much as possible  to maximise the use of the 
credit facility
on 26 February 2017 Nationwide applied a block to Mr Js account which resulted in 
genuine payments  on 27 February  2017 being declined,  but Mr J didnt say anything  
to Nationwide  about this at the time
Mr J received monthly credit  card statements which showed the disputed transaction,  
but he didnt raise these  until May 2017  
So, when I weigh everything up, I think its more  likely than not that Mr J authorised the 
transactions. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide  to refuse him a refund  of 
the disputed transactions.
Mr J says Nationwide shouldnt have  registered a default marker against him in 
Ref: DRN13034974October 2017. He says it was clear that most  of the balance was made up of disputed 
transactions. And had Nationwide told him to pay off what he owed prior to the disputed 
payments, which  was around £400,  he wouldve paid this. And has said he can now pay off 
the balance in full. 
Nationwide no longer have recordings of its conversations with Mr J. But it has provided 
copies of its contact  notes to see what was said to Mr J at the time.  Its also sent us copies 
of letters, including  a default notice, it sent to Mr J at the time.
Nationwide should  act with forbearance and due consideration before deciding to go ahead  
and default the accounts of one of their customers. And after considering all Nationwides  
interactions with Mr J I think  theyve satisfied this requirement. They sent multiple letters to 
him, which clearly asked him to contact them if hed struggle to repay what  he owed. 
In response, Mr J contacted Nationwide and explained that he couldnt  make the minimum 
payments and that he was in financial difficulty.  He said he wasnt  working,  was overdrawn 
and behind on bill payments.
Nationwide took the information Mr J provided into account and offered Mr J a nil repayment 
plan  which froze the interest, charges and repayments. And told him that this arrangement 
would also be subject  to a default being recorded.  The notes show that Mr J agreed to the 
payment plan. However, Mr J didnt  make a single payment towards his account balance  
between May 2017 and April 2019. And its important to note that Mr Js account  balance 
also represented credit  for payments he doesnt  dispute making. So, he was always  obliged 
to make his contractual payments, whether the payments  he disputes were  part of his 
balance or not. 
Having looked  at the contact notes I think Nationwide communicated  clearly  with Mr J about 
what would  happen  if he didnt repay  the debt, which included  explaining what further action 
could be taken, including recording information with credit reference agencies and passing  
the account to debt collectors. So, Im satisfied  Nationwide has done what Id expect it to do 
and has communicated  clearly with Mr J about  the consequences of not repaying his debt. I 
also think Nationwide gave Mr J enough notice  before it registered the default.
So, while I sympathise with Mr Js situation,  I think Nationwide were  entitled to decline Mr Js 
request to remove the default from his credit  file. The default recorded on Mr Js credit  file is 
an accurate reflection of the account. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to remove  it.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1303497