K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably by losing the 
land certificate for their property and how its dealt with them.  They want the land certificate 
found and compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs M borrowed money  from Lloyds to buy their property in 1987, and had to deposit  
property documents  with it. The situation  was more complex than the usual  position  as Mr M 
said that there wasnt a legal mortgage in place, but there was an equitable  charge in Lloyds 
favour and no registration  securing Lloyds position  at the Land Registry. The loan was paid 
over time (around 1991) and Mr M said that the documents  remained with Lloyds.
But in 2018,  Mr M wanted  to borrow  more  money from Lloyds via a bridging  loan. He was 
unhappy that the branch  he wrote  to didnt respond  positively,  and that it said such loans 
were no longer offered following changes in the mortgage market; he felt disregarded. Mr M 
was also told that Lloyds didnt have the documents for the property.
Mr M complained to Lloyds. It said that what Mr M wanted was the land certificate,  which 
was a document only valid at the time it was issued and for a short period afterwards  its 
role was to provide evidence of the land and to whom it belonged. Lloyds said that the 
certificate had expired,  and was of no use to Mr and Mrs M now;  this meant that they didnt 
suffer any disadvantage by Lloyds no longer having  the document  in its possession. It also 
said that Mr and Mrs M could get one from the Land  Registry as the property was registered.  
Lloyds apologised  for any confusion caused by misunderstanding what  Mr and Mrs M were  
looking for (it originally thought they wanted  the deeds)  and poor service and paid £100 
compensation. It confirmed that it didnt offer bridging finance  or bespoke products for 
members of the public.
Mr M complained to us, though he accepted that a lender could decide to stop offering a 
particular product; he felt though that Lloyds was trying to pretend that the law prevented it 
continuing to offer the product, rather than admitting that it didnt want  to carry on. Mr M also 
felt that he shouldve been  helped  in some way to get the finance he wanted  and Lloyds  had 
no right to lose or destroy  his property (the land certificate). Lloyds said that there was no 
evidence it ever held the land certificate and if it was so important  to Mr and Mrs M, it 
wouldve expected  them to ask for it much earlier than nearly 30 years after the loan had 
been repaid.
The adjudicators view was that the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  He said that it wasnt 
unreasonable that 28 years after the loan was repaid Lloyds didnt hold any information 
about the land certificate,  and that the certificate  wasnt of any legal significance. The 
adjudicator also said that there was no evidence Lloyds had said it was illegal to offer 
bridging finance, but it had chosen  to stop doing so due to changes  in regulation; this was 
acceptable. He thought  the £100 compensation paid for poor service was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. Mr M suggested that this service was somehow bribed by lenders 
and wasnt impartial, and Lloyds should still have records in its possession, despite the 
passage of time. Mr M also felt that the adjudicator  and Lloyds didnt appreciate the nuances  
of his situation and more  shouldve been done to help when he wanted to borrow  money.
Ref: DRN19044172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I deal with the issue of the land certificate first, its correct that this document was one that 
set out the ownership and interests  in a piece of land at that time  it wasnt a deed of a 
property. Its also correct  that the land certificate was time limited  and its not difficult to get 
the same  information  from the Land  Registry  as the property is registered. The land 
certificate from 1987 would not be of any assistance in selling the property in 2020 as the 
property is registered  and any buyer  would  want to see the current information. I cant find 
that Mr and Mrs M have suffered financially if Lloyds has lost the land certificate. And I note 
Mr and Mrs M have  now moved home,  which supports  my view that the 1987 land certificate 
was not required.
But did Lloyds lose the land certificate? The loan was repaid in about  1991 according to 
Mr M, and it started in about 1987. Due to the passage of time, theres no objective evidence 
available showing that Lloyds ever had the document. Mr M has given an account which 
says that it did, but there are no written  records from the time showing Lloyds had the land 
certificate. And lenders only have to hold records for a period of time, after which they are 
required to destroy data; this is one reason  why this service has time limits to bring a 
complaint.
Lloyds has said if a charge was to be removed from the Land  Registry, the deeds would be 
handed to a solicitor  to deal. But as Mr M points out, this was never the situation  for his 
property. The property  was registered, but the loan was not. The land certificate wasnt  a 
deed so legally wouldnt be of any use to a lender  wanting to enforce an equitable  loan. As 
Mr M points  out, other documents existed to protect Lloyds interest. 
Theres no obvious reason why the land certificate would need to be retained by Lloyds, and 
is generally held by the solicitor dealing with the purchase of the property. I appreciate that 
Mr M may argue that I am applying recent legal practice to historic events, but given the land 
certificate never had any real value to a lender wishing to enforce its security, Im not 
persuaded that its more likely than not Lloyds had the land certificate (as opposed to the 
other documents it did need to protect its position). I note that Mr M says more  money was 
borrowed later from Lloyds  using  the land certificate  as security, but his description of the 
loan sounds more like an unsecured personal loan, the land certificate  isnt in itself good  
security, and no evidence of this loan has been provided. I dont think this is enough for me 
to find the land certificate was held at the time by Lloyds.
And in any event, as the loan was repaid in 1991,  and the land certificate had no value, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to be unable to confirm whether it ever had the 
certificate or destroyed  it as the adjudicator says. 
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy about  Lloyds  refusal to offer bridging finance. But lenders are 
entitled to stop offering products and make  commercial decisions, as Mr M himself accepts. 
This isnt something with which  this service would interfere. And while  Mr M would like 
Lloyds to act differently,  lenders arent generally  required  to create bespoke solutions  for 
consumers  they offer a package of possible products, and subject to the lending policies, 
they are either available or not when an application  is made. 
Ref: DRN19044173Lloyds felt that it couldve offered Mr and Mrs M better customer service  in relation to the 
issues dealt with under this complaint.  Taking all the circumstances into account,  I think 
£100 compensation is fair and reasonable, particularly as I havent found Lloyds to be at 
fault.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1904417