K821x#15complaint
Ms N complains Equifax  Limited recorded  her address incorrectly  on her credit file. She says 
it hasnt corrected the error and she feels this may affect her credit  score.  She wants the 
correction made and compensation.
background
Ms N tells us since December 2017 shes  been trying to get Equifax  to correct a mistake she 
says its made on her credit  file. She says the number of her address is wrongly recorded. 
She says shes experienced poor service,  including rudeness from staff,  incorrect 
information and delays. And the correction still hasnt been  made.
Equifax issued a final response letter in which it upheld Ms Ns complaint. It said it had taken 
steps to correct any errors. Subsequently,  when Ms N complained her credit file still showed 
incorrect information, Equifax said the issue was information being  provided in the incorrect  
format by lenders.  And its system wouldnt accept numbers  on certain lines in the 
submission of information process.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 November  2018  indicating my 
intention to uphold  the complaint. Since then both parties have replied. Equifax replied and 
advised that a comment  I had made in my provisional decision about the same issue  being 
repeated in September was not correct. It said it was a separate  issue - created by a third 
party link - which it had been able to have removed.  Im happy to accept this.
Ms N replied  seeking assurances that Equifax had contacted  the relevant businesses  to 
advise them of the formatting issue. She said she had done so herself, and felt any change 
could be due to her efforts as opposed  to Equifax.
I thank both parties for their replies  and Ive taken them  on board. I dont think they materially  
alter the situation  - as opposed  to clarifying  some  surrounding  detail. So I shant be changing 
my provisional view which is largely  repeated in the final decision below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N is understandably upset that her address  keeps being recorded  incorrectly on her 
credit file. Shes concerned this may affect  her ability to access  credit as it could affect  her 
credit score.
This is one of those  instances where  it appears  there ought to be a simple solution but in 
practice it is proving  far more intractable. And Im afraid that whilst Im intending  to uphold 
Ms Ns complaint I doubt if my decision will go as far as she would wish. Nor can I guarantee 
she wont be faced with the same issue.
It seems  Ms N has found  herself  caught in the middle of a dispute  between Equifax and a 
number of businesses  from which it acquires  information. Without  going  into unnecessary 
detail the essence of the problem relates  to the format in which information is reported.
Ref: DRN18850102Nowadays most information that passes between businesses is processed by automated  
means. But issues can arise if the respective systems of the different businesses dont 
always recognise the different formats through which information is exchanged. In this case 
the Equifax system does not accept numerical information at certain points in its format. So if 
a business submits information containing numerical details - and thats  how most addresses 
are identified - theres a risk of an error occurring. As an example, if numerical address 
information overlaps  into a part of the format that does not recognise numerical characters it 
might be incorrectly identified.  So Flat 1, 10 Canary Wharf might  be read as 1 Canary  Wharf.
So whilst a business  might justifiably claim its submitted the correct  information, Equifax can 
equally say the wrong  format has been used. Im not the industry regulator so its not for me 
to determine if its for Equifax to change its system  to accommodate a wider range of 
reporting formats  - or for a business  to adjust  its method of reporting to accommodate the 
Equifax system. Sadly Ms N has found  herself the unwitting victim of this situation.
The businesses which have been  involved in the difficulties about the reporting of Ms Ns 
address are aware  of the issue  and I would hope this will lead to a solution. Ive seen 
evidence that Equifax  has advised businesses of the need for the correct address format  to 
be used. I understand  Ms N has done likewise.
As Im only considering  a complaint against Equifax I cant decide  if others  are also at fault.  
And so if Ms N believes  this might  be the case she would have to bring a separate complaint 
against any such business. I appreciate this would be tedious and time-consuming. But I 
have to remain within the limitations of my role.
And the reason Im upholding  this complaint is not that Im finding its the Equifax system that 
is at fault - its because  I think Equifax should have been clearer in its explanations to Ms N. 
And it should not have implied  that by amending the details on its system it had solved the 
problem permanently. Ive seen no evidence its staff were rude or deliberately unhelpful  
although I can understand Ms Ns growing sense of frustration at the apparent inability to 
resolve the issue.
In summary,  I acknowledge that even though Im upholding her complaint Im unable to go 
as far as Ms N would wish. And Im sorry this will cause  her some disappointment.  I can only 
say that as far as Im aware all the relevant businesses have been notified of the issue and 
how it can be resolved. 
Unfortunately I cant guarantee it wont happen  again and it would  be futile  to order a 
business not to make  any errors in future.  Businesses do not set out to make mistakes.
I can only assure Ms N that in the unfortunate event  of a repetition any complaint she makes  
to this service, and which falls within our jurisdiction, will be fully investigated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
Im ordering  Equifax Limited  to pay £100 to Ms N for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN18850103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1885010