K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about how The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) dealt with a 
payment they made for a new car
background
Mr and Mrs M set up a payment out of their account on 18 March 2019  for £15,500 to a car 
dealership. They say the payment left their account  but the following day the dealership 
contacted them and told them the payment hadnt been received.  Mrs M says she was told 
the payment had been blocked by RBS and questions why she was still able to use the 
account. Mr and Mrs M say they didnt  receive any contact from RBS telling them  the 
payment had been blocked and say that Mrs M then took time off work to collect the car on 
21 March 2019.  They say the £30 gesture  of goodwill offer by RBS is an insult.
RBS says its entitled under the account terms and conditions to block or delay a transaction  
if it has fraud or security  concerns. It says Mr and Mrs M contacted it before it had chance to 
call them and says it lifted the fraud  measure on 19 March 2019. RBS also says it sent a text 
message on 19 March 2019 and says the transaction wasnt a usual one and it doesnt have 
the ability to contact a customer  as soon as a payment  is blocked.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to us and say that RBS should pay £300 - £350 
compensation. Our investigator looked  into the complaint and thought  that RBS had dealt 
fairly with it. The investigator  thought the payment  was released some  hours  after it should 
have and that RBS had followed the account terms and conditions and its security process.
Mr and Mrs M do not accept that view and say if there were security  concerns then the 
whole account  should have been  blocked. They say they cant  find any information about  
RBS policy  on this point.
The investigator considered those points  and came to the same  conclusions and didnt think 
RBSs fraud  policy  would be readily  available.
Mr and Mrs M have  asked  for an ombudsman to review  that decision.  In summary they say a 
fraudster would have  needed their account card, PIN and other  information  if the transaction 
had been fraudulent. They say RBS hasnt followed its fraud process  and that they didnt 
receive the text message or a one time passcode. Mr and Mrs M say they would like £500  
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as investigator for similar reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed  
by my decision  and I appreciate how strongly they feel about whats happened.
There is no question here that this was Mr and Mrs Ms money  and they are free to spend it 
as they see fit. I also accept that the delay in unblocking  the payment caused  them  
inconvenience in having to rearrange  the collection of the car. But I think that banks and 
building societies have  a difficult balance to try and achieve in protecting their customers 
money against fraud. I think that means  from time to time genuine transactions trigger  fraud 
and security measures and mean as in this case that customers  are caused inconvenience. I 
can see that Mr and Mrs M accept the need  for such security  measures.
Ref: DRN13754602Im satisfied that is what happened here that a large payment was attempted  that triggered  
RBSs security measures. I can see that the account  conditions  make clear that if RBS 
suspect fraud then a payment may take longer or restrictions applied to an account. So I 
dont think in those  circumstances  RBS made a mistake or acted  unfairly by blocking  the 
payment. I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs M question  why the account wasnt  blocked instead of 
one transaction.  But Im satisfied that such matters  are business  decisions that I think RBS is 
entitled to make when  exercising its commercial judgement. And I dont think  its our role to 
tell a business what its security measures should be or how it implements its security policy.
I would also not expect RBS to publish in any great  detail what  its fraud  measure are or in 
what circumstances it implements them. So whilst I accept Mr and Mrs M say they cant find 
information about RBSs process  about this type of situation  I cant fairly  conclude RBS 
has made a mistake or acted unfairly  by not providing that information in any more detail 
than it has. 
Im satisfied that RBS released the payment within a relatively  short time. I can see that the 
block was removed on 19 March 2019  and in any event this was a faster payment that can 
take up to a working day to process  in certain  circumstances.  So I think  that even if the 
transaction had not been blocked then it may not have reached  the car dealerships account 
immediately and may have taken up to the end of the next business day after it was made  
on 18 March 2019.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M say that RBS didnt contact them when the fraud  block  was 
put in place. I accept  that if it had then matters  could have  been  sorted  out sooner. But I can 
see that RBS did send a text message  but appreciate that Mr and Mrs M say they didnt 
receive it. And I think that it likely  that due to the amount of fraud activity then it would be 
unreasonable for RBS to be able to make contact immediately. And for the reasons Ive 
explained Im satisfied that the block was removed by about 13.40  on 19 March 2019 which 
was the day the car was due to be collected.
Overall Im satisfied that RBS has dealt fairly with this complaint  and so I cant  fairly  order  it 
to pay the compensation Mr and Mrs M would like. I accept that Mr and Mrs M will remain  
unhappy with my decision but I think  this brings  an end to what  we in trying  to sort out this 
complaint informally  can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1375460