K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about a series  of instalment loans he took out with Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny.co.uk). Mr N says that Sunny lent to him 
irresponsibly as it continued to approve loans  even though he had minus disposable income  
and he was stuck  in a cycle of borrowing and stress.
background
Mr N started borrowing from Sunny in June  2014. In total, he went  on to take a total of 27 
loans with the last of them being  taken in January 2017. For the sake of clarity, Ive set out 
Mr Ns overall  loan history in a table  (Appendix A) at the end of this provisional  decision.
When it investigated Mr Ns complaint, Sunny agreed that it shouldnt have provided  Mr N 
with his second loan  it agreed to refund the interest Mr N paid  plus interest   and amend 
Mr Ns credit file in order to put things  right.  But Sunny  didnt think  that it had done  anything 
wrong in relation to the remaining 26 loans.  Mr N was dissatisfied with Sunnys response  
and referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ns complaint. He thought  that Sunny unfairly provided 
the loans from loan three onwards to Mr N. So he partially upheld Mr Ns complaint. Sunny 
didnt respond  to our adjudicators assessment. And as a result the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
the legal and regulatory framework
Sunny gave Mr N his loans while it was regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority  
(FCA). Sunny initially obtained interim  permission  to provide consumer credit before it went 
on to successfully apply  for authorisation as a high-cost short-term credit provider. Sunnys 
interim permission to provide consumer credit  and its eventual authorisation to do so meant 
that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Sunny. CONC 5 sets 
out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms 
obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Ref: DRN12514682Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the rules  set out in CONC 5 and 
CONC 6 and the Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) published by the former regulator  
of Consumer Credit providers the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) in March  2010. As is evident 
from the following  extracts,  the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
Ref: DRN12514683CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 6.7 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to its post contract business practices. 
CONC 6.7.21G, CONC 6.7.22G and CONC 6.7.23R  contained  specific obligations for 
high- cost short-term credit providers  like Sunny.
CONC 6.7.21G says:
A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term credit where to do so is unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.22G says:
A firm should not allow a customer to enter  into consecutive agreements  with the firm for 
high-cost short-term credit if the cumulative effect  of the agreements  would be that the total 
amount payable by the customer is unsustainable.
Ref: DRN12514684[Note: paragraph 6.25 (box) of ILG]
Section 6.25 of the ILG is set out on pages  four and five of this decision and is concerned  
with what the OFT referred to as deceptive and/or unfair practices.
CONC 6.7.23R (which applied from 1 July 2014) says:
A firm must not refinance high-cost short-term credit  (other  than by exercising forbearance) 
on more than two occasions.
CONC 6.7.17R defines refinancing and says:
(1)In CONC 6.7.18 R to CONC 6.7.23 R refinance  means to extend,  or purport to 
extend, the period over which one or more repayment is to be made  by a customer  
whether by:
(a)agreeing with the customer to replace, vary or supplement an existing 
regulated credit  agreement;
(b)exercising  a contractual  power  contained in an existing regulated credit 
agreement; or
(c)other means, for example, granting an indulgence or waiver to the customer.
(2)Exercise forbearance means  to refinance a regulated credit  agreement where the 
result is that no interest accrues at any time in relation  to that agreement or any 
which replaces, varies or supplements it from the date of the refinancing and either:
(a)there is no charge  in connection with the refinancing; or
(b)the only additional charge is a reasonable estimate of the actual and 
necessary cost of the additional  administration required in connection with the 
refinancing.
(3)The term refinance  within  paragraph (1) does not include where  under a regulated  
credit agreement  repayable in instalments  a customer  requests a change  in the 
regular payment date and as a result there is no charge or additional interest in 
connection with the change.
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Mr Ns loans were given to him after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit  Act came into 
force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine 
that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair  to the debtor. Section 140A 
says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
Ref: DRN12514685(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
Ref: DRN12514686(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
the law
Ive also taken account of the Consumer Credit Act (including the provisions  I havent  set out 
above), and other relevant  legislation, including the law relating  to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract;  as well as the law relating to causation and remoteness.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Sunny, for each  loan, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself 
that Mr N would  be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr N wouldve been able to do so?
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern 
of lending increase Mr Ns indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful?
Did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Sunny did not act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr N and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Sunny, for each  loan,  complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that 
Mr N would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
A lender will determine its own risk appetite  when  providing short-term  loans. In other words, 
itll decide how much  risk  in relation  to not getting its money back  it is prepared to accept 
when deciding to lend to a consumer.  But the rules  throughout the time Mr N was 
borrowing from Sunny   also require a lender to carry  out a reasonable assessment of 
whether the borrower can afford to meet the repayment (or repayments) in a sustainable 
manner.
This is commonly  referred to or called an affordability assessment or affordability check. 
And a lender  is required to carry out any such affordability assessment in addition to any 
creditworthiness assessment to assess the level of its risk. Affordability checks  should be 
both borrower-focused  and proportionate. Its whether Sunny fulfilled this obligation to   
Mr N that is what  Im concerned about  and is the first key question  I have to determine in 
order to decide  this case.
Ref: DRN12514687What constitutes a proportionate affordability  check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited  to  the particular circumstances of the borrower  (such  as 
their financial  history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications  of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate  check could  look different  for different  loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period); and
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
Before I look in more  detail at whether the checks that Sunny  completed for each of Mr Ns 
loans were proportionate, I have some  overall  observations about the evidence that Sunny 
has provided about its checks.
Sunny hasnt really  explained anything about the checks it carried  out before providing        
Mr N with his loans.  When it issued  its final response, it said that it conducted 
creditworthiness checks, assessed Mr Ns ability to afford the repayments  which  would fall 
due under the proposed  agreement and it considered how Mr N was managing  other debts 
at the time. But Sunny  hasnt explained  how it did any of this. Instead it has simply provided 
a spreadsheet  with a substantial amount of coded information. 
Considering that this is information that Sunny  itself has collected and, it says, used to 
inform its lending decisions, its disappointing  that it has been unable to tell me what  this 
data reveals about  Mr Ns circumstances when he applied for his loans. 
This service cannot and will not search through dozens of pages of coded information 
looking for evidence  to support Sunnys defence  of Mr Ns complaint. If Sunny cant  describe  
what the data it has provided told it about  Mr N, then I cant  and wont put any weight on it.
Sunny also appears  to be relying heavily on its account opening procedures in place at the 
time and the decisions reached as a result. For the avoidance of doubt,  Sunny  is responsible  
for any lending approved  by its own systems.  Given that Sunny insists that all apart from one 
of Mr Ns loans were  responsibly lent, it ought  to know  and have  explained  not only what 
Ref: DRN12514688data it analysed, but also how it used and interpreted this information to make  fair lending 
decisions. Without this explanation from Sunny, I cant take it as read that these automated  
decisions were fair. 
loan 1
Having looked  at the information provided, it looks as though  Mr N requested a loan of £100. 
And its unclear  to me how he ended up being  transitioned onto a running  credit facility with 
a limit of £350 (more than three times  amount he requested). Indeed I note the marketing on 
Sunnys website at the time referred to borrowers being in a position to only borrow what 
they need. So Im a little concerned that Mr N ended up with a facility where he was able to 
borrow substantially more  than hed requested.
In any event, leaving aside my concerns about Mr N potentially  being provided with 
substantially more than what he requested  in the first place, Mr Ns first loan was a running 
credit facility, which didnt  have a fixed end date.  
But Mr Ns credit agreement said: 
This credit  is expensive  and is unsuitable  for supporting sustained  borrowing over long 
periods, as it would  be expensive  as a means  of longer term borrowing.
I think that this warning is important for two reasons. Ill explain in further detail why I think 
the second of the reasons  is important further on in this decision. But to start with while  there 
was, in theory, no end date for the facility, the nature  of the product and the warning  about  it 
being unsuitable for borrowing over extended  periods  led to Mr Ns credit agreement  
including a hypothetical repayment schedule indicating what hed have to pay and when 
should he draw  down his entire credit limit and repay it over a five month period.  
So given the terms and conditions of the facility and Mr Ns agreement  included a 
hypothetical payment  schedule,  I think  that Sunny had to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to understand whether Mr N wouldve been able sustainably make  the 
payments set out on the hypothetical repayment  schedule as and when they fell due. As    
Mr N was given a facility  with a credit  limit of £350, drawing down the full amount would have 
resulted in him having to make five monthly  payments of around £115.  
Given the amount  of hypothetical monthly payment and the period of time Mr N wouldve 
been expected to make payments for, I think that Sunny, at the very, least needed to obtain 
details about Mr Ns monthly income and normal monthly living costs. 
 
I can see that Sunny appears to have recorded  Mr N declared he had a monthly income of 
£867. Sunny  also appears to have no expenditure whatsoever recorded as having been 
declared by Mr N. But it does appear to be the case that it substituted  a figure  of £112 a 
month in. Although Im not sure how Sunny obtained this figure.
In any event, I do think that there is an argument for querying why Mr N would need  to 
borrow £100 and repay it in instalments if hed genuinely  had in excess of £750 in monthly 
disposable income available to him. 
That said and notwithstanding  my concerns I cant see anything  to suggest that Sunny had a 
reason to conclude  that the information  obtained  was wholly  inaccurate. Given the relatively 
small amount of the hypothetical monthly  payment and this was Mr Ns first loan, I dont think  
Ref: DRN12514689that it was wholly unreasonable for Sunny to rely on the information provided,  or for it not to 
ask further questions.
So overall I dont  think that Sunnys checks were unreasonable and/or disproportionate in 
the circumstances. And as a result I dont think Sunny acted unfairly  in providing Mr N with 
loan one.
loans 2 to 27
Mr Ns running  account  facility ran for substantially longer than five months.  It ended  up 
being repaid in March 2015   some nine months  after it was initially taken out. And Im 
mindful that during this nine month period there  were a number of instances  where Mr N was 
drawing down further funds on his facility  not too long after he made a payment.   
Mr Ns remaining loans were instalment loans. These loans  were  due to be repaid in monthly 
instalments of varying amounts.  As this was the case, Sunny needed  to establish that Mr N 
would be able to sustainably repay  the instalments to his loans as and when they fell due.   
Mr N appears  to have been  given loan two, while his first loan was still outstanding. And I 
suspect that this is the reason why Sunny has already accepted  it shouldnt  have provided 
loan two to Mr N and has agreed to put things right. 
That said,  bearing in mind the length of time Mr Ns running account  facility ran and Sunny 
ought to have been aware Mr N might have been  borrowing further  to make his payments,  I 
think that it wouldve  been fair and reasonable for Sunny to have taken steps to verify Mr Ns 
actual financial position, in order to fairy determine whether Mr N would be able to 
sustainably make his repayments.  
 
It could have done this by asking for information such  as bank statements, copies of bills, or 
even proof  of Mr Ns income.  But the crux of what Sunny needed  to do was get a better 
understanding of was just why Mr N still needed  further loans some nine months after hed 
started borrowing.
All of this means  that, to remain proportionate,  Sunnys  checks from loan two onwards 
needed to be more thorough than theyd been  for loan one. Theres  no evidence that Sunny 
did any of this or any other additional assessment of Mr Ns circumstances from loans 2 to 
27. So I dont  think Sunny completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks on 
loans 2 to 27.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks on loans 2 to 27 have indicated to Sunny that 
Mr N would have been unable to sustainably repay the loan(s)?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for these loans, I cant say for sure what  they 
wouldve shown. In some  circumstances,  it would be appropriate to attempt to reconstruct 
proportionate checks to see what they would  more likely than not have shown Sunny about 
the proposed  lending.  
Id usually attempt  to do this using the evidence and information Mrs M has provided us with 
about his financial  circumstances  at the time he applied for these loans. But I havent  
recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 3 to 27. And I dont think  that 
it necessary for me to do this, in this case, for two reasons. 
Ref: DRN125146810Firstly, by upholding Mr Ns complaint about loan 2, Sunny accepts that loan was 
unaffordable for him. Ill explain the second, and more important, reason why I think 
recreating individual, proportionate checks for loans 3 to 27, isnt necessary in this case in 
the section below.
Thinking about  the short-term purpose  of the loans  provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ns indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some 
other way?
In addition to assessing the affordability  of each individual loan provided to Mr N by Sunny, 
I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending.  Bearing in mind  
the short-term purpose of this type of credit and the relevant rules  (especially  the need for a 
lender to ensure that a borrower  could  sustainably repay their loan),  guidance and good 
industry practice at the time (as summarised  in the earlier part of this decision), it seems to 
me that there may come  a point at which  a responsible lender would reasonably question 
whether continuing to offer further  short-term loans to a customer  who appears to be 
persistently reliant  upon them was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful.  
Ive carefully considered  whether that point was reached in this case.
I think that it would be useful for me to start by setting out some  examples of the kind of 
indicators that I think are particularly important when deciding  this matter. Some examples of 
the kind of indicators would include:
the number  of times that Sunny had lent to Mr N in total
the time period over which it had provided those loans
the amounts  that Sunny was lending to Mr N, including any general  trends
the time between Mr N repaying one loan and Sunny providing the next
the extent to which Sunny ought to have been  aware that Mr N was borrowing 
further to make  his loan payments
Even though  I havent upheld the complaint  about loan one and Sunny has upheld  Mr Ns 
complaint about  loan two, I still think it would be helpful for me to look at the pattern of 
lending during this time in order to inform  my decision  on whether and when there were 
indications that Mr Ns loans had become (or were becoming unsustainable).
As Ive previously mentioned, there were at least four occasions  where  Mr N drew down 
further funds on his running  account credit within a couple of weeks  of him making a 
payment. So it looks  like Mr N was struggling  to make it to his next payday once he made a 
payment. And this also suggests Mr N may have been borrowing to cover  the hole making 
his payment left in his finances. That said, Im mindful that Mr N didnt, or wasnt  allowed to, 
draw down further funds  on his facility once five months had passed. And he did go on to 
repay the facility  in full within four months  of his last drawdown.   
So even though I think that there were some  warning  signs that Sunny ought to have been  
alert to during  the course of loan one, I dont  think I can say that the pattern of lending  had, 
in itself, become  demonstrably unsustainable  or harmful  such  that I could reasonably  say 
that the facts spoke  for themselves.
Looking beyond loan one, though, I think theres  a clear mismatch  between the intended  
purpose of this type of credit and the way in which Sunny  has allowed it to be used. These  
loans are meant to be a short-term solution to temporary cash flow problems as set out in 
Ref: DRN125146811CONC and referred back to in the ILG. Yet Sunny persistently and repeatedly  provided 
consecutive and concurrent loans to Mr N over an extended period of time  a period  
encompassing well over two years.
From this perspective,  having carefully  considered everything,  I think  the point at which this 
chain of lending  became  unsustainable and harmful is from loan three (I would more likely 
than not have concluded that it was unfair to provide loan two but Sunny has already agreed 
it shouldnt have provided this loan). For this reason, I dont think  that theres any need  for 
me to recreate individual,  proportionate checks for loans  3 to 27.
To explain, Ive already said that there  was an emerging pattern, during the course  of loan 
one, of Mr N having  to borrow again  not too long after making a payment. And I think that by 
loan three,  Sunny ought fairly and reasonably to have regarded that pattern as established 
and that Mr Ns financial position was worsening. Mr N was given loan three while  loan two 
was outstanding. And he was also provided with loan four while  loans two and three were 
outstanding too. When Mr N did manage to repay  loan two, he took out loan five (for a much 
greater amount) on the same day. In my view,  Mr N was never  able to recover  and get 
himself on an even  financial  keel from loan three  onwards.  
I say this because  while Sunny  may have been received payments from Mr N after this, he 
wasnt truly settling his loans over the life of the credit agreements.  Instead,  what  Mr N was 
doing was borrowing further funds from Sunny in order to cover the gap in his finances  left 
by the repayment of the previous loan. In other words, he was only able to repay a previous 
loan because he knew hed be able to obtain  another one shortly afterwards. And on many 
occasions Mr N had a number of loans outstanding at the same time.
Mr Ns borrowing history between his first and twenty-fifth loan shows that the capital owing 
to Sunny hadnt  reduced either. By the time loan 27 was taken (almost  two and a half years 
after loan one) Mr N had three loans totalling  £400.
Over the approaching two and a half year period, Mr N borrowed an average amount of 
£125. For access to this money, he paid over £1400 in interest,  fees and charges. I think, 
during these periods, that Mr N was, in effect, merely servicing his debt to Sunny  in other 
words, he was paying interest without making inroads into the outstanding capital. 
In my view, this ought to have shown Sunny that these loans were unsustainable.  Mr N was 
proving unable to clear  his indebtedness within a reasonable period of time. And Sunny was 
fuelling this by providing him with further  borrowing to cover the hole paying previous loans 
was leaving his finances. Mr Ns lending history with Sunny in itself suggests that he was 
only able to repay by further borrowing, which CONC 5.3.1G(6) says is indicative of 
unsustainable lending.
The effect of Sunny allowing Mr N to take such a long sequence of loans was that he found 
himself paying high interest charges  over an extended period for loans that were only 
intended to be for short-term use. Whats more,  I also think that Sunny itself was aware of 
the unfairness of continuing to provide this type of credit to borrowers  who were proving 
unable to sustainably  repay their loans. Thats why Mr Ns credit agreement for his first loan 
said This credit is expensive  and is unsuitable for supporting sustained borrowing over long 
periods, as it would  be expensive  as a means  of longer term borrowing.
Loans 2 to 27 may have been instalment loans with fixed terms rather  than running account  
credit with no fixed end date. But, in my view, the effect of allowing Mr N to enter into 
Ref: DRN125146812sequential instalment loan agreements, some  of which were concurrent, over an extended 
period was the same. There  was still a danger that this many  loans taken  over this extended 
period of time would  be unsuitable and unsustainable because it was expensive as a means 
of longer term borrowing.  
With the statement  in its running account  agreement, Sunny showed  that it knew  excessive 
re-lending for prolonged periods was not fair to borrowers like Mr N. So I now find it very 
hard to see why Sunny went on to continue this lending  (albeit  through a series of new 
agreements) for over two and a half years   or why it maintains that this was fair.
Sunnys actions had the effect  of unfairly  trapping  Mr N into repeatedly  taking this type of 
credit. Mr N was paying Sunny high amounts of interest for the privilege of it allowing him to 
delay dealing with his unsustainable  debt. Sunny arguably unfairly  took advantage of Mr Ns 
position and left him continually owing it money.
So given all of Sunnys obligations, the short-term purpose of this kind of high-cost credit,  
and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account the circumstances and everything 
Ive covered in this section, I think that Sunny acted unfairly in providing  Mr N with loans  3 to 
27.
Did Mr N lose out as a result of Sunnys shortcomings in relation to loans 3 to 27?
I think that Mr N suffered adverse consequences  as a result of Sunny unfairly giving  him 
loans 3 to 27. I think this is the case for two key reasons.
Firstly, these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Ns indebtedness  to Sunny by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit   which the rules and guidance (and some  of Sunnys 
own credit  agreements) made  clear  was only intended for short-term use  over an extended 
period of time (more  than two and a half years).
These loans were very expensive although  I accept  that Mr Ns actions  in settling some early 
took meant that some of them were  effectively taken over short  terms (sometimes  a couple 
of weeks). For regular and prolonged access to relatively small sums of money  (Ive already  
explained that it was an average  of £125  (although I accept there  might  have been periods 
where Mr N owed more because he had more than one loan at a time)), Mr N paid many 
multiples in interest,  fees and charges. And I think that the overall cost of these  loans unfairly 
prolonged Mr Ns adverse  financial  position.
Secondly, the sheer number of loans involved is likely to have had implications for Mr Ns 
ability to access mainstream credit. The greater the presence of short-term  loans on Mr Ns 
credit file the less likely Mr N was able to rehabilitate  his finances and regain access  to 
mainstream credit.
In my view, Sunny giving Mr N such a large  number of loans (which it shouldnt  have done) 
unfairly placed him in a position where he was effectively trapped into taking very expensive 
high-cost loans over an extended period as no-one  else would lend to him. He kept turning 
to Sunny because he no longer had access to more sustainable forms of credit. And 
because he constantly  owed it money.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided and whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case,  I think that Mr N lost out because  Sunny 
Ref: DRN125146813unfairly gave him loans  3 to 27, which it ought to have realised were unsustainable  and 
harmful for him. And this means  that Sunny needs  to put things right.
Did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Sunny acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mr N in some  other  
way.
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
six of this decision, I think that Sunny  unfairly gave Mr N loans  3 to 27, when it ought to have 
realised that they were  unsustainable and otherwise harmful for him.
fair compensation  what  Sunny  needs to do to put things right for Mr N
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Sunny putting Mr N in 
the position hed now be in if he hadnt been  given  the loans Im upholding.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr N 
was given the loans in question and hes used the funds   albeit in reality,  on many 
occasions, what hes effectively done  is repaid previous loans with the funds. So, in these 
circumstances, I cant  undo  whats already  been  done. And its simply not possible to put   
Mr N back in the position he would be in if he hadnt  been given these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Sunny to put things right in the 
following way.
interest and charges on the loans Mr N shouldnt have been given
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, Sunny continually lending  to Mr N left him in a 
position where he wasnt able to properly  settle his debt. This was because Mr N kept having  
to find additional  funds to pay the (increasing) interest and charges on his Sunny loans. And 
then he had to borrow again from Sunny to either repay others or cover the hole in his 
finances and he incurred more interest  and charges when  he did this. So to start with, I think  
that Sunny should refund  the interest  and charges Mr N paid on loans  3 to 27 (as well as 
what it has already agreed  to refund  for loan two).
Mr N lost the use of the funds he used to pay the interest and charges, I now think that 
Sunny needs  to refund to him. As Mr N lost the use of these funds, I think  that he should be 
compensated for this.
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph  above,  I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding  8% per year simple interest,  on the interest and charges  that were  paid, 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN125146814So Sunny should pay Mr N 8% per year simple interest on the interest and charges he paid 
from the date those charges were paid to the date it settles Mr Ns complaint.
Mr Ns credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
But Im upholding  Mr Ns complaint about  loans  3 to 27 because  I think the overall pattern of 
lending increased  Mr Ns indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some  
other way. I explained that there  were  two main adverse  consequences  of Sunny having 
given Mr N so many loans. Firstly it caused him to pay an excessive  amount  of interest and 
charges. And Ive already  explained how Mr N should be compensated for this.
I also explained that the sheer number of loans involved is likely to have had implications for 
Mr Ns ability  to access mainstream credit.  The greater the presence  of short- term loans on 
Mr Ns credit file the less likely Mr N was able to rehabilitate  his finances and regain access  
to mainstream credit.  And I think my direction in relation to Mr Ns credit  file needs to reflect 
this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Mr Ns credit history  
and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make  an informed decision on whether lend to 
him, I think that the mere presence of this many loans on Mr Ns credit file, in itself, 
constitutes adverse  information. And I think that this many short term loans appearing on    
Mr Ns credit file is likely to continue adversely affecting Mr N going  forwards.
In these circumstances, I think that it is fair and reasonable  for Sunny to remove all 
reference to loans 3 to 27 from Mr Ns credit  file, as the number of loans in itself is adverse 
information.
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of        
Mr Ns complaint for Sunny to put things right in the following  way:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges for loan 2 (as it has already  agreed to do);
 
refund  all the interest, fees and charges for loans 3 to 27; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid by Mr N to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ns credit file as a result  of loan 2;
remove all reference to loans  3 to 27 from Mr Ns credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN125146815my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ns complaint.  Elevate  Credit  International 
Limited (trading as Sunny.co.uk)  should pay Mr N compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN125146816APPENDIX A  Sunnys  lending history with Mr N.
Loan Provided Repaid Amount lent Interest 
1 27 June 2014 27 March 2015 £350 credit  limit £652.72
2 21 March 2015 28 April 2015 £50.00 £15.20
3 06 April 2015 02 June 2015 £100.00 £29.49
4 09 April 2015 04 June 2015 £100.00 £30.50
5 28 April 2015 04 June 2015 £200.00 £52.18
6 08 June 2015 27 June 2015 £100.00 £15.06
7 10 June 2015 02 October 2015 £250.00 £166.34
8 04 July 2015 02 October 2015 £100.00 £62.10
9 19 August 2015 05 September 2015 £50.00 £6.11
10 08 September 2015 02 October 2015 £100.00 £18.98
11 16 October 2015 29 October 2015 £100.00 £10.40
12 17 October 2015 08 January 2016 £100.00 £44.04
13 20 October 2015 09 February 2016 £100.00 £61.96
14 31 October 2015 08 March 2016 £150.00 £127.60
15 11 January 2016 07 May 2016 £150.00 £116.36
16 09 February 2016 07 July 2016 £100.00 £82.23
17 14 March 2016 06 August 2016 £150.00 £128.40
18 17 May 2016 06 August 2016 £150.00 £82.69
19 09 July 2016 07 October 2016 £100.00 £58.73
20 08 August 2016 12 October 2016 £150.00 £58.91
21 29 August 2016 07 September 2016 £100.00 £7.20
22 25 September 2016 12 October 2016 £100.00 £12.38
23 09 October 2016 21 January 2017 £200.00 £117.43
24 22 October 2016 02 January 2017 £150.00 £55.92
25 16 November 2016 07 December 2017 £50.00 £8.40
26 12 December 2016 12 December 2017 £150.00 £34.41
27 06 January 2017 12 January 2017 £100.00 £4.80
Ref: DRN1251468