K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains on behalf of her mother (M), for whom she holds power of attorney. Shes 
upset that Lloyds Bank Plc failed her phone security checks and blocked her access  to Ms 
bank account.  Moreover,  that the bank  took this action without informing her; and she had to 
visit a branch to confirm  her identity before it would release  the payment and reinstate 
access. 
background
In 2018, Miss D attempted to transfer funds online from Ms account into an ISA. She 
received online notification to contact Lloyds  fraud  team, so telephoned  them,  whereupon 
she was asked a number of security  questions.  But on the basis of those answers, Lloyds 
said she needed to attend a branch to confirm her identity.
Miss D duly attended a branch and confirmed her identity  via Chip and PIN, so the transfer  
was authorised in time to reach the ISA account. 
Nevertheless, Miss D was unhappy with the process and complained to Lloyds. It didnt 
uphold her complaint,  saying that it had acted  correctly  in asking her to attend a branch to 
confirm her identity given that she had failed the phone  security checks. It did, however, pay 
£36 to cover  her travel costs plus the cost of her phone calls to its complaints team.  
Our investigator reviewed  the case and listened  to Miss Ds telephone call with the fraud 
team. He thought Lloyds had acted  in line with its normal procedures when it didnt pass 
Miss D through  phone security and blocked her online access  to Ms account. He also 
thought it fair that the bank had made  a goodwill gesture to pay for the travel and phone  
costs.
Miss D has appealed, submitting (amongst other things) that Lloyds  didnt adhere  to the 
security questions generated  by the credit  reference  agency;  and these  shouldnt  have been 
used to verify her identity.  She also thought that Lloyds should have notified  either  herself or 
her mother  that online banking had been blocked.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Lloyds  acts or omissions  in light of the terms and conditions  of the banking 
contract agreed between  the parties; and thought  about whether its application  of those 
terms and conditions to the facts of this case was fair and reasonable. 
Clause 7.3 of the Internet  Banking Agreement says the following:
We may suspend, restrict or stop your use of Internet  Banking, the Additional Services or the 
use of your security details if we reasonably think this is necessary because, for example:
(a)the security of your account or Internet Banking is at risk;
(b)we suspect unauthorised or fraudulent use of your security details or Internet Banking  
Ref: DRN13309862Clause 10.3 also says:
You must  tell us if your name or contact details change, including any email addresses, 
mobile phone numbers or other contact  details. If you dont tell us, we wont be responsible if 
we cant contact you or we use outdated contact details to send you information.
With regard to the telephone call from Miss D to the fraud team,  I am satisfied that Lloyds 
acted reasonably in blocking online access and asking her to attend a branch to confirm her 
identity. Whilst she passed  the initial security questions, the representative  attempted  to ask 
Miss D some  additional, intentionally  personalised questions based on her UK credit  report;  
but was unable to proceed because Miss D didnt  have the relevant forms of identification to 
hand.  
Miss D was asked if she had her passport or driving licence in order to verify some 
information. She replied  that her passport had expired. She also said that her driving  licence 
wouldnt be helpful because shed changed her name on it. She explained that her licence 
was currently being endorsed and wasnt in her possession. Miss D further explained that 
she was in the process of changing her name  and hadnt updated her bank details yet.  
The representative informed Miss D that, because  of this, he was unable to verify her identity 
over the phone. He said she would need  to attend any branch of Lloyds to confirm her 
identity. She reiterated  that she didnt currently have her driving  licence as it was being 
endorsed and she didnt have any more  identification. The representative then asked if she 
had confirmation  of her name change, to which Miss D replied that she did but wasnt ready  
to change her details yet. Accordingly, the representative said that she could bring the 
confirmation in with her driving licence once it was returned  as proof of her identity. 
This call shows  that Miss D was unable  to pass phone security  satisfactorily on this 
occasion, which in my judgment entitled  Lloyds to block her access  in accordance with 
Clause 7.3 of the contract. 
I understand Miss D attended a branch the next day and used Chip and PIN to confirm her 
identity. She concedes the payment  was released  in time to reach the new ISA account. So 
its unlikely there was any lost interest  as a result  of these events.
Miss D says Lloyds should  have  informed either  her or M that account access had been 
blocked. I have  also considered Clause  7.6 of the Agreement, which says that, if possible, 
well contact you before  suspending,  restricting or blocking  your access to tell you were 
doing so and whyHowever,  we may not always be able to contact you, for example 
because of legal or regulatory restrictions.
There are other phone calls Miss D made on that day which indicate that Lloyds didnt have 
up-to-date contact numbers for her. It asked for her mobile number but she explained that 
she only used this for emergencies and didnt  want to give it. Lloyds then confirmed her 
home number, which  Miss D advised was incorrect. It took details of her new number in 
order to update its records. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Lloyds  attempted to contact Miss D to advise  access  had 
been blocked. However, because it held incorrect contact details, even if it had attempted to 
contact Miss D by phone,  it would probably have  been unsuccessful. So, given the 
qualification in Clause 7.6 (if possible) and the fact Lloyds didnt hold up-to-date  contact 
details, I am satisfied that its failure  to try to contact on this occasion did not cause any 
Ref: DRN13309863material loss. Its a fundamental principle of contract law and/or negligence that even 
wrongful acts or omissions will only result in liability if they are the dominant and effective 
cause of reasonably  foreseeable loss or damage. If theres no causation and/or  loss, theres 
nothing to remedy. 
Miss D also raised the issue  of Lloyds carrying out eight credit file checks on the day she 
called, and has provided evidence of these  checks. We asked Lloyds about these checks 
and it confirmed they were probably linked to its attempts to identify Miss D in the calls she 
made. It couldnt explain why there were eight separate checks on her credit filebut 
confirmed they are categorised as soft searches. 
The credit reference  agency has also confirmed that soft searches  are not visible  to other 
companies and have no impact on a persons  credit  score. It also said, as Miss D stated, 
that it doesnt use passport or driving  licence details when verifying a persons identity. So it 
appears these documents were required for Lloyds own checks,  not those by the credit 
reference agency. Lloyds didnt make  this clear and caused  some  confusion here. But again,  
theres seemingly no material loss as a result.  
Lloyds is entitled  (and indeed  has a responsibility) to carry out robust identity checks  to 
safeguard its customers accounts,  especially when being contacted  by someone other  than 
its actual customer. In this case, it was unable to verify Miss Ds identity over the phone  for 
reasons beyond its reasonable control. In the circumstances,  I dont consider it was 
unreasonable to ask Miss D to confirm her identity in branch. 
Although Lloyds acted in line with the agreed  terms and conditions  of the account, it has 
already reimbursed Miss D for her travel  and phone costs as a gesture of goodwill. The 
money transferred  also reached the ISA account on time. This reinforces my view that there 
have been no financial or other material losses resulting from Lloyds acts or omissions, so it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask it to take further action.
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  Plc has already made an offer to pay £36 to settle this complaint. I understand 
that it has already  made this payment to Miss D. But if it hasnt, she should contact Lloyds 
directly if she now wishes  to accept this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D (on behalf  
of M) to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2019. 
Mark Sceeny
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1330986