K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a BHS 
store card in 1999. The credit facility was provided  by a high street bank,  but a company 
called Financial Insurance Company  Limited is responsible for answering Ms Ws complaint.  
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
The card was taken  out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. PPI was 
added on which Ms W says she didnt  ask for and so it was added without her consent.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Ms W disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve  spoken  at length to the 
company involved  to gain an understanding of the processes that were  generally used. So 
we now know consumers  were asked to fill out an application which  was part of a wider 
leaflet-based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included  in what  the 
applicant was given  to complete. 
I was sent the credit  agreement Ms W filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can 
see there was a section  on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited  her to either tick - 
or leave  blank - an option box to have PPI cover. 
Ms W ticked the box and she also signed  her name  at that point too, as well as at the bottom 
of the application form. So I think this strongly suggests that she did want PPI when she 
applied for her card. Because I also think she would have had access  to the terms and 
conditions as Ive described above,  I think she consented to the PPI. I think shed have been 
equally free to not have ticked and signed  the section asking for the PPI.
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  
information for Ms W to decide for herself  whether she wanted the cover. I acknowledge  
FICL could  have set out the information about  the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but 
overall I do think Ms W had access to enough  information to allow her to make an informed 
decision. 
Ms W told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt  
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Ms W says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ref: DRN16726552Ive checked that Ms W was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some  of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive,  but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to 
work or until all the balance was returned to zero.  These  benefits  wouldve been in addition  
to any other  means  Ms W had in place at the time.
So although  I cant say why Ms W decided to select this cover when she applied  for the card,  
I think the PPI policy was something  that would have been  of use to her. I think  this could 
explain why she chose  it on the form.
For me to uphold Ms Ws complaint, Id need to think it was more  likely that she wasnt  given 
an option or there were other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead,  what Ive seen makes me think Ms W specifically selected  the 
PPI and had access  nearby  to the information she needed about  the PPI policy  and its rules. 
And I dont  think theres evidence that any better  or more  information  would have  
changed how Ms W acted. 
So Im afraid  I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1672655