K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained that WDP Insurance  Limited  (WDP) didnt  provide  him with a 
replacement mobile  phone as it should have done  under  an insurance contract.
background
Mr J took out insurance through his mobile phone provider, but the insurer was WDP.  
Mr Js phone was damaged, so he claimed  for a replacement  phone under his insurance.  
The replacement phone was sent to him using a third party  courier  company. But Mr J said 
the phone  was never received. He thought  WDP  should provide a replacement phone.
WDP said the courier who had been  instructed to return the phone provided  records to show  
it had been delivered to the correct address. So WDP said its not responsible  for the 
missing phone as it was delivered  to the right place.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought WDP should provide Mr J a 
replacement phone as the evidence didnt  show  the delivery was successful.  But WDP 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J took out the insurance in November 2017.  Ive seen Mr Js claims history  that showed  
that he claimed for a damaged phone that was subsequently replaced.
Mr J made  a further claim in 2019, again  for a damaged  phone. After that a phone was sent 
out to him  its not clear  whether this was a new phone or if his old phone was repaired. 
Mr J set his delivery address to his place of work  rather than his home. But there is no 
record of him telling WDP or the couriers that he wanted the parcel signed for on his behalf 
or left with someone  else.
WDP has provided evidence from the third party courier that the parcel  was delivered 
correctly. Ive seen  that the couriers recorded coordinates  at the drop  off location that 
correspond to Mr Js place of work  and the couriers have said:
Driver is experienced  and knows the area wellDriver is confident  delivery was 
correct.
But the couriers also sent an automated message that read:
Your parcel has been delivered and signed for by FATHERS at 12.13  on Thu 04 Apr 
2019
This doesnt match with Mr Js details and he says there is nobody  with that name at his 
place of work.
Ref: DRN18719192Ive thought about what I think  is most likely to have happened.  Having done  so, I agree with 
our investigator that I dont think there  is enough evidence  to show the phone  was delivered 
to Mr J. He has been  clear and consistent  throughout and I have no reason to doubt  the 
phone wasnt received. And he raised the missing parcel with WDP the following day.
I dont doubt the courier  attended Mr Js place  of work, or somewhere near to it, and handed 
the parcel to someone they thought worked there.  But I havent  seen  any evidence it was 
given to Mr J.
The courier  was instructed by WDP  to deliver a parcel to Mr J and I cant  see Mr J had any 
say in the way the parcel was delivered, so it was WDPs choice to use this courier. It follows 
I dont think WDP has done what it should have done under the insurance contract  provide 
Mr J with a replacement mobile phone. I think it needs to now do that.
WDP has asked whether  Mr J reported the theft to the police, but I dont think he needed to. 
He didnt think the phone was stolen  as he simply thought it hadnt been delivered, which is 
a fair reaction in the circumstances.  But as I dont think Mr J ever received the phone,  WDP 
may wish to consider  whether it wants to report the phone as missing.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Js complaint against  WDP  Insurance  Limited. I 
direct it provide Mr J with a replacement  mobile phone of the same  make and model as the 
one he claimed  for or, if not available, one with comparable features and functionality.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1871919