K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) handled a claim she made  on her 
home insurance policy. 
background
In September  last year Mrs W got in touch  with UKI because items of her furniture  had been  
damaged while she was moving  house. She provided photos of the damage. UKIs claim 
notes say she wanted it to assess the claim based on these but didnt want anyone  to visit 
her property. There was some delay by UKI in looking at the photos.  Once  it had done  so it 
asked Mrs W for further photos  but subsequently concluded it wasnt able to assess the 
claim from these.  It wanted to carry out a visit to see whether restoration  of the furniture was 
possible. 
Mrs W was unhappy with that and said shed previously been told a cash settlement would 
be provided. UKI said it wasnt able to do that until it had inspected the furniture. It said if Mrs 
W was unhappy with it attending it would accept  a quote from a tradesman of her choice for 
the restoration costs.  As Mrs W didnt  agree  to that the claim didnt  progress. UKI 
subsequently had concerns as to whether the property  was being used for business  
purposes but that issue has now been  resolved. 
Our investigator didnt  think it was unreasonable of UKI to ask Mrs W for further information 
as the original photos she supplied were unclear. And she thought  its offer to then accept a 
quote from a tradesman  of her choice was fair. She agreed there had been some delay by 
UKI in progressing matters once  it received  photos  from Mrs W but thought  the £125 it had 
offered for this was also fair. 
Mrs W didnt agree. She said shed taken  the photos in response to a request from UKI and 
it had told her it would  be able to assess the claim from these.  She said she never agreed to 
the items  being  repaired. She said UKI had previously  agreed to a cash settlement and 
wanted it to pay that. She highlighted the stress  the claim had caused and a potential loss of 
earnings as shed been intending to rent rooms out in her property. Mrs W also sent photos 
of the damage  to her furniture. So I need  to reach  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mrs W has found this an extremely stressful experience. Shes  told us about  how 
its affected her and says shes  had to have time off work as a result. I was very sorry to hear 
about this and I appreciate how upsetting  this has all been  for her. 
But the question  I need to consider is whether UKI has done anything  wrong when  dealing  
with the claim she made. Ive looked first at the policy  terms and I can see Mrs W does have 
cover for accidental damage to the contents  of her home. And in relation to settling claims 
the policy says:
Ref: DRN18262302For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose  whether to:
replace or repair the item or part;
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost to;
replace or repair using  our own suppliers, or
make  a cash payment.
The terms also say that for a contents claim the policyholder must:
give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including  proof of 
ownership or value  of the lost or damaged item and written  estimates for repair. You 
will have  to do this at your own expense;
allow us (or our appointed suppliers) to access or inspect the damaged items and/or 
property
So, under the terms of the policy, UKI was entitled to ask Mrs W for information to support 
her claim and arrange for an inspection of the damaged items. And I think theyve applied 
those terms fairly in this case. Ive looked at the first set of photos Mrs W provided  and I 
dont think these do make  clear what the nature  and extent  of the damage to Mrs Ws 
furniture was. It appears Mrs W had already expressed concerns about a home  visit so I 
dont think UKI acted unreasonably  in asking her to provide additional  photos  which  might  
have enabled  it to progress the claim without the need for this. 
But as it wasnt clear  from the further photos  whether the damaged items were capable  of 
being restored  I think it was reasonable of UKI to then conclude a more detailed inspection  
would be necessary. I appreciate the concerns Mrs W had about a visit but I think  UKI took 
appropriate steps to address these by saying it would also accept  a quote for any restoration 
work from a tradesman of Mrs Ws choice. 
Mrs W says she was told early on in the claim that UKI would be paying  cash to settle her 
claim. However, Ive reviewed UKIs  claim notes  and I cant  see a reference  to such  an 
agreement in there. And its not referenced in the emails and letters  Mrs W was sent at the 
time. I also think  it unlikely UKI would  have made  a firm commitment about this when it 
hadnt been able to assess  the extent of damage  to Mrs Ws furniture. 
I do agree  there was some delay of around  a month by UKI in progressing  matters after Mrs 
W provided the first set of photos.  I appreciate this will have caused Mrs W some  
inconvenience. But Ive not identified significant  other delay by UKI in moving matters 
forward. So I agree  the £125 its already agreed  to pay does enough to put things right here. 
And while I appreciate  Mrs W may not have agreed to her items being repaired under the 
terms of the policy  its for UKI to decide  what should  happen here. Its not yet reached a 
decision on this because  its not been  able to inspect the damaged items; I understand 
discussions are ongoing between UKI and Mrs W about the arrangements for a visit. 
If that does  go ahead and Mrs W is unhappy  with the decision UKI then reaches on her claim 
thats something that could potentially form part of a fresh complaint. 
But as no decision has yet been  reached on this its not something  I can consider at the 
moment. And if Mrs W feels the further  photographs shes supplied to us might help in UKIs 
assessment of the claim she may wish to send  them  through to it. 
 
Ref: DRN18262303my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because  I think U K Insurance Limited has already 
done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1826230