K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that when he took out an annuity in 2006 he was entitled to an 
enhanced annuity. He says the business that he bought the annuity from, Sun Life 
Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited  (Sun Life), should  have done  more to make  
sure he got a higher paying  annuity.
background
Mr P bought an annuity through  Sun Life in 2006,  which was set up to pay an income  for the 
rest of his life. He has complained, through  his representatives, that the annuity wasnt set 
up in the right way. Mr P says he had serious  medical conditions  that meant he should have 
been given an enhanced  annuity  an annuity that paid out more as his life expectancy was 
lower than average.
Sun Life didnt agree  that it had done anything wrong. It says Mr P was told about various 
ways he could have  taken his pension, including that he could have got an enhanced 
annuity or an annuity that paid more  if he went to a different provider. Importantly, Sun Life 
said it hadnt given  Mr P any advice about what the best annuity was for his circumstances, 
so it was up to Mr P to choose himself.
But Mr Ps representatives say Mr P wasnt in any fit state  to make his own choice about the 
annuity that was right for him. And they say, as Sun Life recommended  he take out the 
pension in the first place,  there was a continuing  duty for it to recommend the right annuity 
for him.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He 
said he didnt think Sun Life needed  to offer Mr P an enhanced annuity. And he thought Sun 
Life had provided  clear enough information for Mr P to make  an informed decision about how 
to set up his annuity.  But Mr P asked for the complaint to be looked at again by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
should Mr P have been given clearer information about the annuity he took out?
Mr P had a pension fund held with Sun Life. It didnt offer him any advice about what  annuity 
was right for him, but it did need  to give him information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading to make  sure he was able to make  his own informed choice  about  the annuity  he 
took. So Ive looked at what information Mr P was given by Sun Life and whether he knew  
what type of annuity he was taking.
In February 2006  Mr P spoke to a representative  at Sun Life to discuss the options available 
to him. Unfortunately  there isnt a recording of the phone call that took place, so I dont know 
exactly what was discussed.  But there  are some notes that say Mr P called to say he wanted  
to take his pension and the maximum tax free lump  sum available. He wanted this to be set 
up to pay out when he turned 50 in March 2006. And I can see Mr P called again nine times 
Ref: DRN18945142between February and May 2006  chasing  up the annuity payment, so I think  its clear  Mr P 
wanted to take his pension entitlement at that time.
In March 2006 Sun Life sent Mr P an annuity  quotation. The quotes provided showed  what  
an annuity would pay under various options. And on the first page of the covering letter it 
said:
The amount of pension  that can be purchased with the fund value  at retirement 
varies considerably from one provider  to another and the pension  may be taken with 
another provider  through the open market  option.  We strongly recommend that 
independent financial  advice be taken to secure the best possible pension. We can 
help you find an independent financial adviser in your local area if you would like.
And two further  quotes were sent out later in March and in April after Mr P clarified  which 
options he wanted to take. 
Within each quotation Sun Life said the following:
Making the correct annuity decision
You do not have  to take your annuity  with [Sun Life].  Please read the factsheets we 
have provided.

Making the right choice  at retirement  is essential to ensure  you have the best 
possible income during  your retirement, because you cannot make changes  at a later 
date. We strongly recommend that you seek independent financial advice as you 
approach retirement  to help with your decisions.  We can help you find an 
independent financial  adviser in your local area if you need assistance.
And nowhere on the quotations did it say Sun Life was advising Mr P which annuity was right 
for him.
Ive seen the factsheets that were sent with the quotations. One was titled  About  the open 
market and other options available for retirement. This set out that Mr P had the right to 
choose his annuity provider and he didnt have to buy one through Sun Life. Again it said 
Mr P should  take advice  to find out what the best choice for him was.
Another factsheet was titled  About pension annuities and it said:
Poor  health annuities
If you are suffering from a serious illness you may be eligible for a higher annuity  
rate. This would be subject to appropriate medical evidence being  obtained.  Many  
insurers refer to this type of annuity as an impaired life annuity. [Sun Life] does not 
offer poor health or impaired life annuities although you may but your annuity from a 
provider of your choice that does.
Mr P applied for an annuity in April 2006, choosing a tax free lump sum and a level annuity, 
paid quarterly in advance without any guarantees, escalation or dependants pension.
Ref: DRN18945143I think the explanations given by Sun Life at the time made the options clear. Given  the 
decision Mr P made to take an annuity,  Id have  expected him to read the quote  and 
attached factsheets.
Having looked  at all of the information that would  have  been available  to Mr P, I think  it 
would have been clear that different options  were available. Im satisfied he received  the 
information he should have been given about  his retirement options,  including  information 
about a possible  enhanced annuity due to ill health.  Mr P filled in the correct forms to take an 
annuity and I cant see he asked for any assistance  in doing this. Its not possible to say 
precisely why Mr P chose  not to take the open  market option or asked for an enhanced 
annuity from another supplier. But Im not going to tell Sun Life to look again at the terms of 
Mr Ps annuity.
should Sun Life have offered Mr P an enhanced  annuity?
Mr Ps representatives have said Sun Life had a duty to give him advice. In particular  they 
say he was vulnerable and Sun Life should have realised that. They  said Mr P would  have 
had an automatic entitlement to an enhanced annuity, which would have been picked up on 
if face to face advice  had been given. And, as advice was given to start the pension  in 1990, 
there was an expectation that advice was continuous up to and including  when the annuity 
was taken.
Ive seen that Mr P was provided information  about the annuity in February 2006, after he 
contacted Sun Life to ask about taking  his pension.
Ive looked through Sun Lifes  records to see what,  if anything, it knew  about Mr Ps 
circumstances. There is a record in February  2000  that Sun Life was aware he was claiming  
incapacity benefit and it asked him for more information about  this, but he didnt respond to 
this request  this was following a wider pension  review that affected Mr Ps pension. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest Sun Life knew anything about  his circumstances then or 
later. 
When Mr P contacted Sun Life in 2006 it was to access his pension  and I cant see that his 
personal circumstances were discussed.  So I cant see there was anything  said by Sun Life 
that would  make him think he was being given  advice.  And Mr P hasnt said he thought he 
was getting any advice from Sun Life.
Mr Ps representative has said he was advised by Sun Life when he took out the pension, so 
there was in effect a process of advice that started at the time the pension was taken and 
continued up to the time he took an annuity.  But I think  setting up the pension and selling an 
annuity are separate events that took place sixteen  years  apart. I cant  see that Mr P was 
given any advice by Sun Life in those  intervening  years. And, when he came  to taken an 
annuity, Mr P was told by Sun Life that he should get independent  advice. So I think  Sun Life 
made it sufficiently clear it wasnt giving any advice to Mr P.
Ive also considered whether there  was any duty on Sun Life to give Mr P advice. There  is 
nothing in the rules  that set out how a business should treat its customers  that says advice 
has to be given. I think Sun Life only had to give Mr P enough information about his options 
at retirement, which I think it did. It follows Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN18945144my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  against  Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1894514