K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them an 
Additions packaged bank account in 1996. They paid a monthly  fee for the account which 
provided several benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs H have held two bank  accounts  with Barclays.  Weve  already told their 
representative that the sale of their Additions  account is the only one we can consider  so in 
my decision  Ill only be looking at whether Barclays mis-sold the Additions account.
Mr and Mrs Hs account was migrated  to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech Pack  and 
Travel Pack  in January 2017,  as part of a change  to the range of products Barclays  offered. 
As this wasnt a separate sale, and as I havent seen any complaint points specifically in 
relation to the migration, I havent  considered that either.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to Mr and 
Mrs H and didnt recommend that Barclays  should pay them  any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Hs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think  the Additions  account 
was mis-sold to them. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs H were  given  a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs H took the Additions account by switching from a free account,  and I think  that 
Barclays gave Mr and Mrs H a fair choice to take the packaged account. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the couldnt have  kept their fee-free  account if theyd wanted to. In 
addition, fee-free accounts had always been, and continued to be available  in the United 
Kingdom. So I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs H chose to upgrade their account, 
knowing they didnt  have to, because something  about the Additions account appealed to 
them.
Ref: DRN17582952Ive seen that Mr and Mrs Hs representative has said repeatedly that Barclays  didnt check 
the account was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H. And weve told their representative that we 
havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays made a personalised recommendation when 
it sold the account. That means it didnt have to check whether the account was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Hs personal circumstances. Instead  Barclays had to give Mr and Mrs H enough 
information about the account so that they could make  that decision for themselves. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr and Mrs H were  interested in some of the benefits  of the 
Additions account and chose  it because of these benefits. At the time the account was sold 
Barclays charged customers  with a fee-free account a £5 monthly usage fee for using an 
arranged overdraft. The Additions account  also cost £5 a month, and one of its benefits was 
a waiver on the overdraft  usage fee. It also included the first £100  of an arranged  overdraft 
interest-free, and a number of other  benefits.
Mr and Mrs H were using their overdraft regularly in 1996, and continued to do so after they 
upgraded their account. Bearing in mind that if they hadnt upgraded theyd have paid £5 to 
use the overdraft,  plus interest on the full overdrawn balance, I can see why they mightve  
decided to upgrade. For the same monthly cost they were  able to continue using their 
overdraft, whilst paying interest on a reduced amount of it, and they had access  to the 
accounts other benefits, too. They might not have gone on to use the other benefits, but I 
dont think theyve lost out by upgrading for the reasons Ive just explained. I also cant see 
anything to suggest they couldnt have used the accounts other benefits if theyd wanted to.
Its possible that Barclays didnt tell Mr and Mrs H everything it should have about the 
Additions account. But for the reasons Ive explained, I havent seen enough to make  me 
think that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt still have taken  the account, even if Barclays  had told them 
more about it.  
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs H that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  theyve said.  But having done  so I dont think  
Barclays mis-sold  the Additions  account to them. So I dont think it owes them any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1758295