K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  on behalf of company L that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  took too long 
to reflect  the transfer of ownership of Ls account in its systems   causing L financial losses..  
background
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs K purchased a business  company L - from a previous 
owner. That owner was then to be removed as director of L, to be replaced  by Mr and Mrs K. 
This needed to be done firstly with Companies  House, and then with Lloyds  (with  the 
company directors becoming signatories to Ls accounts), which  was where  company  Ls 
business and credit card accounts were held. 
The form that Mr and Mrs Ks solicitor sent to Lloyds advising on the change  of 
director/signatory only sought  to remove  the previous director   i.e. it didnt replace him with 
Mr and Mrs K as signatories. Had it done  so Lloyds would have then carried  out a 
Companies House  check, and had the new directors been  listed  there it would have been 
able to formally change  the signatories on Ls account. There  was also some  confusion 
between Lloyds and Mr and Mrs Ks solicitor on what would happen when  the form was 
received. But ultimately, because the properly completed form wasnt  sent to Lloyds, this 
caused a delay. 
As a result of these complications,  it took until December  2018  for Mr and Mrs K to take 
control of Ls accounts. When they did they saw that the previous director had continued  to 
use the business account following the sale of L, and had made  payments from it. They 
believed Lloyds was responsible for this loss of money. They wanted a refund,  and also 
compensation for their loss on earnings  in the time it took for them  to access  Ls accounts 
(September to December 2018). They say that because  of the delay they werent able to 
advertise and market  Ls business.
A complaint was made  to Lloyds. It explained  that it didnt think it had made a mistake.  The 
change of directorship/signatory form had been received, but wasnt completed  correctly. All 
the form did was remove  the previous director as signatory  not appoint Mr and Mrs L as 
signatories in his place. To that extent,  they couldnt  have  started  to access  the accounts in 
any event. 
So it didnt agree it was responsible for any of Ls losses. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree, and brought their complaint to our service. Our Investigator  
looked into matters  and concluded that while there  had been some delays and perhaps 
mistakes in the legal  transfer of ownership  of L, these were  not Lloyds responsibility.  So she 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs K still didnt  agree, and asked for an ombudsmans  review.  Mrs K reiterated  that 
shed visited a Lloyds  branch to try to resolve matters, and that her solicitor  was told cards 
would be ready  for the account.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14721832Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that Lloyds cant  fairly  be held 
responsible for the losses claimed by L.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs K. I can see that they bought a business  in 
good faith, and that due to matters  that werent  entirely within their control, that business has 
sustained losses. While  they have  my genuine  sympathy, my role is to look at the evidence  
and reach  an outcome  thats fair to both parties.  And Im afraid I cant  say its fair to hold 
Lloyds responsible for these losses. 
Lloyds responsibility  was to act in a timely fashion  when instructed to change its systems to 
recognise the new owners of L. While it was reliant on instructions from Mr and Mrs Ks 
solicitor in this respect, it must be remembered that Lloyds client was L, and until Mr and 
Mrs K became signatories  to Ls accounts  and their status  confirmed with Companies 
House  - it couldnt take any instructions  from them in their personal capacities.
Therefore, delays in filing the correct and relevant forms with Companies  House  and Lloyds, 
along with the actions  of Ls previous director  who knew hed sold the business but 
continued to use Ls accounts  to make payments, are the real reasons  for Ls loss. Not any 
action, or inaction,  on the part of Lloyds. 
I do acknowledge that some correspondence between Lloyds and Mr and Mrs Ks solicitor  
might have led her to believe that the transfer  of ownership was being actioned, I cant  say 
that this itself caused any delay or any losses. Its unfortunate matters  werent  clearer,  but 
its not for Lloyds to conduct the transfer of ownership.  Its reliant on clear and correct 
instructions and properly completed paperwork,  as well as confirmation  from Companies 
House. And insofar  as Mrs K visited a Lloyds  branch  to try to expedite matters,  as she 
wasnt a customer at that point (in her capacity as a director of L), it wouldnt have been able 
to help her.
As I havent  been  persuaded  that Lloyds made any mistakes that caused the delay  in the 
transfer of ownership  of L, it follows that I dont  need  to conduct any assessment of the 
losses from Ls accounts, or for loss of earnings.
For the reasons  Ive given, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Lloyds to make any payments to 
L. Im sorry  that this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs K, but I hope  Ive explained why its 
the only fair decision I can reach on the evidence Ive seen.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K, on 
behalf of L, to accept  or reject  my decision before 21 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1472183