K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the charges  PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) is requiring him to pay 
following the end of his vehicle leasing agreement. 
background
Mr E says he thinks the damage PSAs charging him for should  be considered fair wear and 
tear and he thinks the prices hes being  charged  for repairs are excessive.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Es complaint  should  be partly upheld  and PSA should  honour 
the offer it had previously made to accept £765.26 in full and final settlement of the damage 
charges. 
PSA disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. It said Mr E was given an option  to settle 
the outstanding charges at a reduced amount before the matter was escalated to the next 
stage of its debt collection  process. It said Mr E shouldve  accepted  the settlement offer 
within the seven  days it specified when it made the offer in October 2018. And it said as he 
didnt accept the offer at the time it isnt prepared to give him the same settlement offer now.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
I recently issued my provisional  findings on this complaint. I said I acknowledged  in October 
2018 PSA offered to accept £765.26 in full and final settlement of the outstanding damage  
charges. But it made clear  to Mr E that this offer was open for acceptance for seven days. 
And I considered PSA had given a clear explanation of its rationale for making an offer of 
this nature at that time.
I noted Mr E decided not to accept PSAs offer at the time and instead to pursue a complaint 
to this service, which was his right. I also noted  our adjudicator concluded  PSA was entitled  
to charge Mr E for items  of damage totalling  around  £1,200 although I could see this figure 
was reduced to £949.69 as a result of an earlier decision by PSA to waive  the payment of 
£250 as a gesture of goodwill.
In these circumstances, I was minded to conclude it wouldnt be fair for me to require PSA to 
honour at this stage  an offer it made around six months ago to accept £765.26  from Mr E in 
full and final settlement  of his outstanding damage charges, provided he made  this payment 
within seven days.  
So, for these reasons,  I was minded to conclude I couldnt fairly and reasonably uphold      
Mr Es complaint.   
This was different  from the adjudicators opinion. So, I invited both parties  to comment and 
provide any additional evidence for me to consider. 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14653822In response to my provisional decision Mr E said the damage charges under his previous 
finance agreement  were waived because he got another van of the same brand. But now 
hes got a new van of a different brand, hes being  required to pay the charges. He said hed 
previously been  told the damage  amounted to fair wear and tear, so he shouldnt  have to 
pay damage charges.  And he said hes had letters from PSA threatening him with court  
proceedings, even  though a final decision hasnt yet been issued about his complaint.  
Ive given careful consideration to Mr Es comments. But Im satisfied PSAs decision to 
charge him for each  of the defects that remain in dispute is in accordance  with the industry 
standard guidelines  on fair wear and tear and is reasonable  in the circumstances. And Im 
also satisfied it wouldnt be fair for me to require PSA to honour at this stage an offer it made  
around six months ago to accept £765.26 from Mr E in full and final settlement of his 
outstanding damage charges, provided  he made  this payment within seven days.  
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Es complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against  PSA Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14653823copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr E complains about the charges PSA Finance  UK Limited (PSA) is requiring him to pay following 
the end of his vehicle leasing agreement. 
background
Mr E says he thinks the damage PSAs charging him for should be considered fair wear  and tear and 
he thinks the prices hes being charged for repairs are excessive.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Es complaint should  be partly upheld and PSA should  honour the offer it 
had previously made to accept £765.26 in full and final settlement  of the damage charges.  
PSA disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. It said Mr E was given an option to settle the 
outstanding charges at a reduced  amount before the matter  was escalated  to the next stage of its 
debt collection process. It said Mr E shouldve accepted  the settlement offer within  the seven days it 
specified when it made the offer in October 2018.  And it said as he didnt accept the offer at the time it 
isnt prepared to give him the same settlement offer now.
So, the matters been referred  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ill explain why.
I note PSA removed charges totalling £600 for missing services when Mr E gave it information  
confirming these  had taken place; it agreed to waive a further £250  as a gesture of goodwill and its 
also now agreed to waive a charge of £6.89 for a misaligned door hinge  cover.  So, my decision 
concentrates on the remaining items  of damage for which PSAs now requiring Mr E to pay a total of 
£949.69.
Mr Es leasing  agreement  required him to return his van in a good condition.  And I see when he 
returned it an inspection  took place by reference to a set of guidelines widely recognised  in the 
vehicle leasing industry. 
The principle underlying  the guidelines Ive referred to is that vehicle  leasing businesses should be 
able to recover the cost of any defect likely to have an adverse impact  on the resale  value of the 
vehicle. 
I see the defects Mr Es been charged for relate in the main to dents  and scratches to paintwork and a 
hole in the upholstery of a seat.     
Ive looked carefully at the various images of each of the defects itemised  in the inspection  report  that 
remain in dispute. Ive also looked at the industry standard guidelines against which  Mr Es van was 
inspected at the end of his leasing agreement. And Im minded to conclude from what  Ive seen that 
PSAs decision to charge him for each of these defects  is in accordance with those guidelines  and is 
reasonable.
I also see that the repair  cost for each item of damage identified was determined  by the business that 
carried out the inspection. Thats normal  practice in the vehicle leasing  industry and I havent seen 
anything to lead me to conclude the charges are excessive  or unreasonable.
Ref: DRN14653824I acknowledge in October 2018 PSA offered  to accept £765.26 in full and final settlement of the 
outstanding damage charges. But it made clear to Mr E that this offer was open for acceptance for 
seven days. And I think PSAs given a clear explanation  of its rationale for making  an offer of this 
nature at that time.
I note Mr E decided not to accept PSAs offer at the time and instead to pursue a complaint to this 
service, which  was his right. I also note our adjudicator concluded PSA was entitled to charge  Mr E 
for items of damage totalling  around £1,200 although I see this figure  was reduced to £949.69 as a 
result of an earlier decision  by PSA to waive the payment of £250 as a gesture  of goodwill.
In these circumstances, Im minded to conclude  it wouldnt be fair for me to require PSA to honour at 
this stage an offer it made  around six months ago to accept £765.26 from Mr E in full and final 
settlement of his outstanding  damage charges, provided  he made  this payment within  seven days. 
So, for these  reasons, Im minded to conclude I cant fairly and reasonably  uphold Mr Es complaint.   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above but subject to both parties  responses to this provisional decision Im 
currently minded  not to uphold Mr Es complaint against PSA Finance UK Limited.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1465382