K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&T) was irresponsible  to lend to him.
background
H&T provided loans  to Mr C between September 2011 and January 2012.
H&T has only been able to provide limited information about  this lending (which  is 
unsurprising after so long). But our adjudicator looked at the complaint and worked out the 
information thats set out in the table below. H&T appears to have  accepted this gives  an 
accurate picture  of Mr Cs lending  so Ive based my decision on the information  shown.
Loan Loan Date Repaid Date Amount Repaid Amount
1 12/09/2011 28/09/2011 £100 £115
2 06/10/2011 28/10/2011 £250 £34.50
Rollover 28/10/2011 28/11/2011 £250 £38.75
Rollover 28/11/2011 28/12/2011 £250 £287.50
3 09/01/2012 27/01/2012 £100 £116
4 27/01/2012 28/02/2012 £300 £348
5 29/02/2012 28/03/2012 £300 £50.50
Rollover 28/03/2012 27/04/2012 £300 £345
6 30/04/2012 28/05/2012 £300 £349
7 18/06/2012 28/06/2012 £250 £269.50
8 09/01/2012 27/07/2012 £300 £356.39
H&T told us this was a running account  agreement (which established a credit  limit at the 
outset of the agreement) between September 2011  and June 2012. It said it carried out 
further checks than regulations  at the time required when assessing Mr Cs loan 
applications. It said the running  account  agreement entered  into made it clear to the 
customer that they were  granted a line of credit and its checks went far enough to determine 
that the customer could afford to repay the credit. 
Mr C told us that these loans caused  him financial hardship. He said that hed regularly had 
to rollover loans because  he couldn't afford  to pay them. He told us he had to borrow  money 
from other lenders  to pay his loans  and then found  he had to borrow  again and take out a 
higher amount.
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. He thought he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for H&T to provide  loans 1-3, but that loans 4-8 shouldnt  have been lent. Our 
adjudicator set out the steps he felt H&T should  take to put things right for Mr C.
H&T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that the adjudicators decision 
seemed to be based on todays rules and transposing  them to 2012  when the last loan 
finished. And it said the checks  H&T did showed  the loans were affordable for Mr C.
So as no agreement was reached,  the complaint came to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ref: DRN10648752H&T needed to take steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means 
that it should have carried out reasonable checks to make sure Mr C could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
H&T was required to establish whether Mr C could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
H&T said that the rules  and reasoning  we have applied  to this complaint came  into place 
after the standards and regulations that applied when Mr C was borrowing these loans. But 
I dont agree that this is the case.  There were industry standards  in 2007  such as the FLA 
Lending Code  - that were broadly based on the same principles as current  regulations. 
And in any event a business should  always treat its customers reasonably, which  is mainly 
how I've approached this complaint. I've considered  if H&T treated Mr C in a fair and 
reasonable way when  it provided these loans to him.
Ref: DRN10648753I think the adjudicator  was right to uphold the loans he did  but Im also thinking  about 
upholding Mr Cs complaint about loan 3 as well. Ill explain  how I've reached my provisional 
decision.
There doesnt seem to be any ongoing  disagreement about the loans that our adjudicator 
didnt uphold   so I don't think I need to say anything in detail about  loans  1-2. It was early  in 
the lending relationship and so I think the checks H&T described were enough for it to agree 
to provide these  loans  to Mr C. 
But when Mr C applied for loan 3, I think H&T shouldve taken into account that hed twice 
had to rollover (in other words defer paying)  loan 2. I think this shouldve alerted H&T to the 
possibility that Mr C was having problems making  his agreed repayments on time. 
And he was now asking H&T for another loan less than two weeks after hed finally repaid 
loan 2  suggesting he might be finding it hard to manage after hed paid loan 2 without 
taking out further  borrowing.
So I think H&T shouldve enquired further to obtain  a proper understanding  of his financial 
situation before agreeing to provide loan 3  specifically I think  it shouldve  asked Mr C about  
his other  short term lending. 
H&T hasnt shown me it did this  and if it had done proportionate checks  before providing 
loan 3, it shouldve  seen that Mr C already had a record of borrowing with other  short term 
lenders. 
Ive had the benefit of being able to see Mr Cs bank  statements  and whilst  Im not 
suggesting that H&T shouldve asked to see these, I think its fair to say they provide a 
useful insight into Mr Cs actual financial circumstances at the time. 
It looks like Mr C took a £1000 loan out with another  high cost lender  around the time he 
repaid loan 2. So I think if H&T had asked  about  his other  lending  it shouldve found  this out 
 and Id reasonably expect it to have enquired about what  hed used this loan for. And if, as 
seems likely Mr C had used part of it to cover the cost of repaying loan 2, then I think that 
was a clear indication that he wasnt  managing his borrowing in a way that was sustainable.  
I think that H&T shouldve  realised that Mr C was struggling to manage his money. And this 
is borne  out by the fact that I can see around this time, he was at the limit of his overdraft 
(and sometimes over) before his next pay went in to his bank account.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for H&T to conclude that it was likely Mr C would be able 
to repay  loan 3 in a sustainable manner. H&T shouldve realised that this loan, and further 
lending was likely to be unaffordable for Mr C. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of H&Ts lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which H&T should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so H&T should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, like our adjudicator I think that this point 
was reached by loan 6. I say this because:
Ref: DRN10648754Mr C wasnt  managing  to repay  his loans sustainably.  This was now his seventh 
month of borrowing from H&T 
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  into the amount he owed H&T. Hed started off 
borrowing just £100. Loan 6 was for £300  the same  amount hed been borrowing 
since hed taken  out loan 4 around  three months earlier. And bearing in mind that 
hed had to roll over loan 5 and he was now asking to borrow the same amount hed 
just repaid three days earlier, it wasnt reasonable of H&T to think Mr Cs situation 
had improved and he was now asking to borrow because of a new need for a short 
term loan. Rather,  it looked more  like he had long term money  problems  and his 
need for extra cash appeared to be ongoing
H&T ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr C was borrowing further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances each time and 
that Mr Cs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.  
I think that Mr C lost out when H&T provided loan 6 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.  
the length of time over which Mr C borrowed these loans was likely to have negative 
implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for high-cost  loans. By loan 6, Mr C had already been indebted to H&T more 
or less continuously for 7 months  in a row. And any further  borrowing  was likely to be 
detrimental to his credit  rating.
So Im planning  on upholding  the complaint about  all the loans  and roll overs  from (and 
including) loan 3 onwards.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr C has confirmed that hes happy  with the proposed settlement in my provisional decision. 
H&T hasnt sent me any further comments or information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about  this case, I still think  its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right  what H&T should do
 refund all interest  and charges that Mr C paid on the loans (including rollovers) from 
09/01/2012 until 27/07/12
Ref: DRN10648755 pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
 remove any negative  information about  loans 3, 4 and 5 from Mr Cs credit file 
 The number of loans taken from loan 6 means any information  recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 6-8 should be removed  from Mr Cs credit  file.
*HMRC requires  H&T to take off tax from this interest. If Mr C asks H&T for a certificate 
showing how much  tax has been taken off, H&T should  provide this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Harvey & Thompson Limited to take the steps to put things 
right for Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1064875