K822xcomplaint
Mr T is unhappy  with the service hes received  from TSB Bank plc (TSB).
background 
Mr T has three  bank accounts with TSB;  a Premier  account, a Classic  account and an 
eSavings account. 
Mr T says that he was unable to access his TSB bank accounts for two weeks  because  of IT 
problems it was experiencing  at the time. He says that because of this, he only had £10 cash 
available to him and he had to borrow money from friends to meet  his daily expenses  and 
travel costs. Mr T also says that his rent payment was late because he couldnt access his 
money and this caused him embarrassment  because he had to explain the situation to his 
landlord. 
Mr T says that because he couldnt  access his bank accounts, he became overdrawn by 
around £3,000.  He also says that hes concerned that his account information  might have 
been compromised  because he could see other customers account information when he 
went into his branch and he received letters at home intended  for other  TSB customers.  
Mr T says that at the time, he spent  several hours trying to contact TSB by telephone to 
discuss matters but he couldnt get through. Mr T is seeking compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to him. 
TSB agrees that there was some disruption  in Mr T being able to access  his bank accounts 
online because of a system upgrade. It says that its IT problems started  on 23 April and that 
from 25 April onwards,  Mr T was able to transfer  money to and from his bank accounts. 
Because of this, it says Mr T was impacted for a couple of days  rather than two weeks.  It 
also says that Mr T was already around  his overdraft limit and so disputes that the systems 
issue caused this. 
An investigator here upheld the complaint. TSB agreed and offered to pay Mr T £500  for 
trouble and upset  caused to him as a result  of its systems issue. The investigator  also 
recommended that TSB refund any relevant charges  incurred over the period Mr T wasnt 
able to access his accounts as well as provide a letter  of apology which Mr T could show  his 
landlord. Mr T disagreed  and says that he should be awarded more so the case has come  to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by the investigator,  Ill explain  why. 
Its clear that TSB was experiencing some IT problems  and Mr T was affected  by this. And 
so its right that TSB should compensate Mr T for the impact it had on him.
Mr T says that he wasnt able to access his bank accounts for two weeks  which  left him 
without access to money and forced him to borrow money from friends. However,  I can see 
from Mr Ts bank statements of all three accounts that he was able to make a number of 
payments, cash withdrawals and inter account transfers from 25 April onwards. In particular, 
Ref: DRN10322622Mr Ts e-Savings  account could only be operated online and I can see that he made  
transfers on 25, 26, 27 and 30 April. As such, Im satisfied  that whilst  there may have been  
some disruption in accessing his accounts for a couple of days, the overall impact  of this on 
Mr T was minimal because, whilst  some  intermittent issues  may have remained, Mr T was 
able to regularly  operate  his accounts  again.   
Mr T says that he couldnt get through to anyone at TSB over the telephone to discuss  the 
matter. Im aware TSBs phone lines would have been busier than usual during this period 
and I accept that repeatedly trying to get through would have caused Mr T some  frustration 
and inconvenience.  
Mr T says that not being able to access his bank accounts to make  transfers  caused  him to 
go into his overdraft by around £3,000. Mr T has a planned overdraft  limit of £3,000  on his 
Premier Account. Ive seen Mr Ts statements for this account  from April 2017 to April 2018 
which show that each  month he was consistently  at or around his overdraft limit. For the 
period around  the IT systems issue, I can see that on 16 April Mr T made a payment which 
took his balance to £2,999 into his overdraft and the next payment wasnt  until 1 May which 
took him £9 over his overdraft limit. By this time, the activity on Mr Ts other  two bank 
accounts show that he was able to operate his accounts again online. And so, I dont agree 
that Mr T was forced to go into his overdraft because he couldnt access  his money nor that 
he incurred any charges as a result.   
Mr T says that hes concerned about the security of his account information because  he 
could see other customers account details on the system when he went into branch and he 
received letters intended for other  customers. TSB says that its aware of which customers  
data was breached  and has dealt  with this directly  with them.  It says there is nothing  to 
suggest that Mr Ts data has been breached. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary,  
Ive no reason to think Mr Ts data may have  been  compromised during the period of TSBs 
IT systems  issue because TSB says that any affected customers have been  identified and 
contacted separately.  
Mr T says that his rent payment was late because he couldnt  access  his accounts  online 
and this caused him some embarrassment.  I acknowledge that it may have been awkward to 
explain to his landlord that his rent payment  would  be late. Taking everything into account  
however, Im satisfied  that the offer of £500  together with a letter  of apology is adequate 
compensation for this.  
Overall, I consider that a compensation award of £500 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because whilst I agree that Mr T couldnt  access his accounts 
online for a few days, this was a relatively  short period and so the impact on Mr T was 
limited. Further, Mr T suffered no direct  financial  loss as a result.
Ref: DRN10322623my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already TSB Bank plc should:
pay Mr T £500  in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience caused to him
write a letter of apology to acknowledge the embarrassment caused to Mr T by not
being able to pay his rent on time. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1032262