K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that the amount Allianz Insurance Plc has paid on a claim under his motor 
insurance policy is less than the market  value of the vehicle.
background
Mr H took out a motor  insurance policy to cover his camper van. He did so through a broker 
which Ill call S. The policy was underwritten  by Allianz and this complaint focuses on its 
actions. Theres a separate complaint  about  the actions of S.
In 2018 Mr Hs vehicle  was stolen and never recovered. He made  a claim on his policy  which 
Allianz accepted.  It undertook some  research into the current market value of camper vans  
like Mr Hs and made a settlement offer of £33,500.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and raised doubts over the figure with Allianz. It spoke to a 
number of motor  home dealers which confirmed the market value was between  £29,000  and 
£36,000. After  some  internal discussions within Allianz it revised its offer to £35,000 and 
Mr H accepted the offer. However, Mr H remained unhappy with this figure, saying that hed 
spoken to a dealer whod said the value was £36,000. He also wasnt  happy Allianz had 
originally offered a lower  figure and had only increased it when he complained.
Allianz didnt change its position  so Mr H brought  his complaint to us. Our investigator 
considered the evidence  and concluded  that the two settlement figures quoted by Allianz 
were based  on reasonable research and within a range of market  values  she considered fair. 
She also said she didnt  think  Allianz  had acted  unreasonably in increasing the offer to try to 
reach an agreement  with Mr H.  
Mr H remained  unhappy and asked  an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise this will be a 
disappointment to Mr H so Ill explain my reasoning.
I acknowledge that the theft of his camper van must have been a distressing experience  for 
Mr H. My role here though is to consider the evidence impartially  and fairly and that may 
mean my decision sounds a little matter of fact.
Its not for us to decide  what the market value of the camper van was immediately prior to its 
theft but whether, in reaching its decision on value, Allianz has acted fairly and reasonably  
and in line with the policy conditions.
So my starting point for this decision is the terms and conditions  of the policy. Under the 
section Part B: Loss of or Damage to Your  Motorhome the policy  states:
We will at your request,  pay for:
Loss of or damage to your motorhome up to the market value of your 
motorhome
Ref: DRN13328992And under the policys General Conditions market  value  is defined  as 
The cost of replacing  your motorhome taking into account its make, model, age, 
mileage condition and circumstances of its purchase  by you
Im satisfied these terms mean  Allianz was only required to pay the market value of the 
stolen camper van rather than the amount Mr H had insured it for, the two amounts being 
quite different. These types of terms are common to many motor  insurance policies.
Ive then gone on to consider the research Allianz undertook  to establish a fair market value.
The valuation of vehicles  is not an exact science and particularly where the vehicle is a 
slightly less common one as is the case with Mr Hs camper van. In these  circumstances, 
reference to the usual  trade guides may not provide sufficiently accurate data so Id expect 
to see a business had undertaken other, additional research to decide on a fair market  
value.
In this case, the trade guides indicated a value in the range of £5,000 to £10,000. But Allianz  
didnt think these were  fair so it undertook  further  investigation.
Its engineer looked  at other vehicles of a similar type to Mr Hs which were for sale at the 
time. It acknowledged they were of slightly different ages and mileages. These showed a 
wide range  of values  from £3,000 to £36,000.  Im satisfied these vehicles were broadly  of a 
similar specification  and so were a reasonable source of comparison.
Having done this the engineer concluded  that £33,500 represented a fair market value for 
the vehicle. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Allianz undertook reasonable 
research to decide on the value of the vehicle.  Im also satisfied £33,500 was a fair and 
reasonable value in all the circumstances given the range of values it obtained from the 
research it undertook.
Mr H was unhappy with this value as he said hed been told by a dealer he should get 
£36,000 for the vehicle. So he rejected Allianzs  initial settlement offer.
Allianz then went on to speak to a number of dealers and a motorhome specialist for further 
information. These estimated the value  of the vehicle to be between £29,000 and £36,000.  
Allianzs engineer  consulted  with another senior  engineer to get another  opinion  on the value 
and spoke to his superiors. After this, Allianz made a commercial decision to increase the 
offer to £35,000.  
Mr H accepted this offer but was unhappy it hadnt  been made  in the first place. Allianz says 
it was satisfied its original  offer was fair but had increased it in order  to try to reach an 
agreement with Mr H. I think this is a plausible explanation. And as I concluded the initial  
offer was within the range of reasonable values, it follows that I also consider the increased 
offer reasonable too.
Overall, Im satisfied Allianz has acted  fairly  and reasonably and in line with the policy  
conditions so I wont be asking it to do any more.
Ref: DRN13328993my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1332899