K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies, taken 
out in June 1990 and April 1991.  Mr B says Bradford  & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold  both 
policies. Each policy  provided cover  for accident and sickness  only.  
background
Mr B says the PPI wasnt explained to him and that it wasnt suitable for his work situation. 
Our adjudicator thought both policies had been mis-sold. Because  B&B disagrees, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
In my provisional decision dated  20 September 2019, I explained why I didnt think either of 
these two PPI policies had been  mis-sold.  I set out an extract  below:
The 1990 Sale
For the first sale, Ive seen that Mr B said B&B had recommended  he take out the policy, but 
B&B says it didnt. Mr B says a meeting took place but from what Ive seen this was more  
likely to have been about the mortgage he was planning to take out rather than about the 
PPI. On that basis, B&B didnt have to check Mr Bs circumstances but it did have to give 
him enough clear  information so that he could make an informed choice about whether he 
wanted the policy.
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage  application  completed at the time by Mr B, which  
includes a section about PPI. I can see there are different boxes to tick to show  the type of 
PPI Mr B wanted to buy  and that he chose  accident and sickness cover  only - along with 
basic questions hed have  to reply to check he could  get cover. After that, hed filled in the 
amount of monthly  benefit he wanted. Finally, hed signed and dated this part of the form to 
show he wanted to apply for the cover. 
Ive also notice that if Mr B didnt want to take out the PPI, he could have put a cross in the 
no box on the form.
Based on what Ive seen  on the form, I dont agree with our adjudicators finding. I think  the 
application form did enough to make Mr B aware  that the policy  was optional and that he 
didnt have to go ahead  with it if he didnt want to buy the cover. 
It doesnt look as if Mr B would have  been excluded by any of the main  policy  terms.  I 
realise that Mr B was self-employed but, given  that the cover hed taken out was for accident 
and sickness only, he wouldnt have been  put in a worse position  if hed needed  to make a 
claim. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But given that he chose to take out the PPI it looks like he wanted this type of cover   
although I see that for some reason he cancelled the policy a short time later.  But based on 
what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances  at the time he took it out, it looks  like he would have 
found it useful  if something went wrong.  And I havent  seen  anything  to suggest that the 
monthly cost of the PPI  being £9.10  to cover  his monthly mortgage premiums  of £260 - 
wasnt affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN19325222All of this means  that for this sale I currently dont think  that the policy  was mis-sold. 
The 1991  sale
Looking at the 1991 sale, I can see that the PPI was applied  for on a separate  PPI 
application form. And again, Mr B chose the cover for accident and sickness only,  giving 
details of the level of cover  he wanted, when he wanted it to start and also answering some 
questions to ensure  hed be eligible. As this was separate  application,  I think  its clear that Mr 
B made the decision  to take out PPI to go with his mortgage. He could just as easily  have 
decided not to go ahead with it. 
B&B has said that it also didnt recommend this PPI to Mr B, but again it still had to ensure 
that it gave him clear  information about  the policy so that he could  decide  for himself if it was 
right for him.
Mr B wasnt  working at the time of the second  PPI sale. But hed told B&Bs adviser that hed 
be back in work within  a few weeks. Given that the policy didnt stipulate that he needed to 
be working to be accepted for the cover, I dont think he would have had a problem making a 
claim under the policy. 
 
As with the previous sale, its possible the information B&B gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But it looks like he definitely wanted the policy and was able to 
afford the slightly higher monthly cost of £9.45, which would cover his new mortgage repayment 
figure £270. So from what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances  at the time he took it out, it looks 
as if this second policy would still have been  useful if something  went wrong. Therefore once 
again I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover.
Both Mr B and B&B confirmed receiving  my provisional decision but neither of them had 
anything else they wished to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
As none of the parties have given me any further  information or evidence to consider in 
relation to the issue of who is responsible for the sale of the PPI, I wont be changing the 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision.  
It follows that I dont consider that either of the two PPI policies sold to Mr B in June 1990  or 
April 1991 were mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN19325223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1932522