K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) sold her 
account to a debt collection agency while she was maintaining the agreed payments and 
without discussing this with her. 
background
Miss B entered in to a credit agreement with Very in May 2016. A temporary payment 
arrangement was set up but as payments fell into arrears the account was passed to a debt 
collection agency. Miss B complained about this and it was found her address hadnt  been 
updated and so Very bought back her account. 
Miss B then set up another payment  arrangement on her account. She says that payments 
were due to be made on the 1st of each month and although she made  the payments she 
was told she hadnt stuck to the payment plan. She says that she wasnt  told that a default 
was to be applied  to her account and her account was again  to be sold to the debt collection 
agency. She says she shouldve  been  called to discuss  this before action was taken. 
Miss B says she is being  chased by the debt collection agency  and that this issue  is affecting 
her health.  
Very says that Miss B was sent a default notice on 19 September  2018 after which she 
contacted it to put a payment arrangement  in place. It says this was set up with payments 
being due every 28 days. However Miss B didnt make the payments on time and so the 
payment arrangement failed and the account  defaulted. The account was sold to a debt 
collection agency on 19 January 2019.  It says it acted in line with its terms and conditions. 
Very did note that Miss B had received some incorrect advice on a web chat on 20 
November 2018  for which  it apologised. However it said it wasnt  able to bring Miss Bs 
account back to Very as she was told when  her payments were due when the payment 
arrangement was set up and in her statements.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He thought that Very had done enough to let 
Miss B know about the situation on her account including sending  her a default  notice. When 
Very was made aware of Miss Bs financial difficulties it suspended  all interest  and charges 
and agreed to set up a payment plan.  Our investigator said this showed it had acted 
positively and sympathetically towards  Miss B.
Miss B didnt accept  our investigators  view.  She reiterated that she hadnt received the 
paper statements and thought payments were due on the 1st of each month. She said that if 
she had received the statements she would  have made contact to discus the late payments. 
She also said she didnt  receive the default notice  and doesnt think  it fair that her account 
was sold to a third party without speaking to her about her financial circumstances. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B is unhappy that her account was sold to a debt collection agency while  she was in a 
payment arrangement.  I understand  why this has upset her and note that the account  had 
Ref: DRN18448042previously been  sold and bought back. However  my role is to consider whether Very did 
anything wrong  by transferring Miss Bs account to a debt collection agency  in January 2019. 
I also note the comments  about being chased  by the debt collection agency  however this 
complaint is about  Very and so I have considered its actions in regard to Miss Bs account.
I understand that Miss B believed that her payments were  due on 1st of each month. 
However having listened to the call when the payment arrangement was set up she was told 
that payments  were  due every 28 days.  This was then confirmed in the payment 
arrangement letter.  The due date for payments was also set out in her statements. 
While I note Miss Bs comments about not receiving statements  I find that Very did do 
enough to inform her of when her payments were due. As these were not made by the due 
date I do not find it unreasonable that further  action was taken.
Miss B says she didnt  receive the default  letter although I note she makes  reference to this 
when she calls Very to set up her payment plan. Very has provided  copies  of its notes which  
say the default  notice  was sent and an example of its default letter which sets out that further 
action can be taken.  In the terms and conditions  of the account  it also sets out that an 
account may be transferred to a debt collection agency if payments are missed.  Therefore, I 
do not find that I can say Very did anything wrong  by transferring Miss Bs account to the 
debt collection agency when her payments werent maintained.
When a customer is in financial difficulties,  we expect them to be treated positively and 
sympathetically. In this case Very put payment arrangement in place and suspended  interest  
and charges. I find that this shows it did treat Miss B positively given her situation.
Overall, while  I understand that Miss B believed her payments  were  due on the 1st of each 
month I think  Very did enough to tell her that payments were due every 28 days. As the 
payments werent  maintained I do not find it did anything wrong by taking further action. 
Because of this I do not require it to do anything further in response to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1844804