K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) told him it would pay the full 
amount of a claim he made under his home insurance after hed been burgled. RSA then 
said it would  only pay up to the policy limit, so hes out of pocket by about £20,000. Mr A 
wants RSA to pay his claim as it said it would.
 
background 
Mr A was burgled in November 2018 and contacted RSA. It accepted  his claim, and Mr A 
provided a list of valuables that had been  taken.
RSA said this list contained about  £27,500 of valuables. Mr A had only bought cover for 
£7,500. Mr A says he was told in a phone call that RSA could  pay out the full value of his 
loss if he paid an additional premium, and RSA would  work this out. Some  time later RSA 
said that was a mistake  and it wouldnt  pay more  than the sum Mr A was insured for.
Mr A complained but RSA didnt change its stance.  However, it did acknowledge it had given 
Mr A the wrong information and had taken  longer  than it should have to put this right.  So it 
offered Mr A £150  compensation for this.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought  the compensation should be 
increased to £250,  because  RSA had wrongly raised Mr As expectations that hed get the 
full value of his claim paid.
RSA has agreed to do this. Mr A remains unhappy  about this so Ive been asked to decide  
this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first of all confirm that this decision is about  what happened when Mr A made a 
claim on his home insurance  its not about how the policy was initially  sold to Mr A. Mr A 
has acknowledged this and may make  a separate complaint about that if he thinks  thats  
appropriate.
Mr A was burgled in late 2018. He then found that his list of stolen  valuable  items was for 
significantly more than the amount of insurance  hed bought.
When Mr A discussed this with RSA he believes  he was told RSA would pay his full claim in 
return for an additional premium. Ive listened to the calls provided by RSA. In one of the 
calls a member  of staff says Mr As claim has been  referred to its underwriters  as the claim  
is for a lot more than the policy covered. He goes on to say if RSA had known the full value it 
would still have offered  cover and that the underwriters are looking at what the premium  
would have been. He doesnt  actually  say the full value  of the claim will be paid out, but I 
can understand why Mr A thought thats what he meant, because it wasnt  clear exactly what 
he was talking about. In a later conversation the same member of staff is challenged by Mr A 
on this point, and doesnt disagree when Mr A says he was told he would receive the full 
value of the jewellery etc that went missing.
Ref: DRN19878122Overall I think  its clear  Mr A was led to believe  hed get the larger  payment.
RSA later said that was a mistake, and clarified what it would pay. And it offered Mr A some 
compensation because hed been  left thinking hed get more than his policy limit.
When a business  makes a mistake, the first thing it should do is put its customer  in the 
position hed have been in if the mistake hadnt happened. Without  the mistake RSA would 
have told Mr A initially it would only pay £7,500  for the valuables   because thats how much 
cover he had. I think thats fair.
RSA did incorrectly raise  Mr As expectations  that he could  receive the full payment if he 
paid an additional  premium  and its offered compensation for that. Mr A says hell only 
accept an offer of £27,000  the estimated  value of his stolen items. Im not going  to say that 
should be paid.  RSA is paying  the maximum amount available  under the policy Mr A bought,  
which is fair. 
I do understand why Mr A is upset to discover  he wont get what  he believes he was 
promised. But, taking  everything into account,  I think the £250 suggested by our investigator  
fairly reflects the upset  of falsely raised expectations.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to 
pay Mr A £250 compensation for the mistake it made.  It can deduct the £150 it offered from 
this if its already been paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1987812