K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Avon Insurance Plc mis-sold them  a personal accident 
insurance policy.
background
In 1994, both Mr and Mrs J were sold a personal accident insurance  policy  by Avon. The 
policy would pay a lump  sum benefit in the event that either of them  died as a result of an 
accident.
In 2000, both Mr and Mrs J extended  their cover to include  hospitalisation benefit.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs J complained to Avon  that they had each been mis-sold the policies. 
They said that theyd  been pressured by their bank into taking out the policies in 1994 and 
were led to believe that if they didnt do so, they would not be allowed any overdraft facility. 
They said they had understood  that the continued availability of their overdraft facility was 
dependent on them agreeing to extend the cover in 2000. They  said they had continued to 
believe that their overdraft was dependent on holding the cover and only discovered  this 
wasnt the case when  speaking to an adviser  from the bank in 2019, at which point they 
cancelled the policies.
Avon didnt  uphold their complaints. It said the policies  had been  sold through  a direct 
mailing sent to customers of the bank but the policies were standalone and were not offered 
in connection  with any other  financial  products which  they may have held with the bank.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy  with Avons  response. They  referred their complaints to us. 
  
Our investigator recommended that the complaints should not be upheld. He considered  that 
the evidence suggested Mr and Mrs J had chosen to take out the policies in 1994, and to 
extend their cover in 2000, in response to the mailings from Avon rather than because of any 
pressure from their bank. He was satisfied  that the cover  had been  described accurately by 
Avon on both occasions and that the policies would have paid benefit  had either Mr or Mrs J 
suffered either death or hospitalisation as a result  of an accident. He therefore concluded the 
policies hadnt  been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the investigators findings. They maintained  that they only took 
out the policies because  they were misled  into thinking this was essential for their overdraft  
and that they only continued with the policies  because they feared that cancelling them 
would lead to the immediate withdrawal  of their overdraft.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Avon has provided a copy of a direct mailing which it said was sent in 1994 to customers of 
the bank at which Mr and Mrs J held an account.  While  the mailing is addressed to 
customers of the bank, Im satisfied  that Avon was responsible for the sale.
Ref: DRN18656432I can see that Mr and Mrs J applied for their personal accident insurance  policies  shortly  
after this mailing  was sent. While  I recognise that Mr and Mrs J say that they were pressured 
by their bank into taking out this policy, Ive seen no evidence to support this. It may be that 
Mr and Mrs J had desperate need of an overdraft facility at this time, but Ive seen nothing to 
show that the taking out of the policy was linked to this. On the contrary, it appears to be a 
standalone policy.
The same goes for when  Mr and Mrs J extended their cover in 2000. They have  said they 
understood that if they didnt do so, it might have jeopardised their overdraft facility but Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that either  their bank or Avon told them this. 
It is unfortunate if Mr and Mrs S have been  paying  for this cover  for so many years  because 
they wrongly believed they had to do so to retain  their overdraft facility. However, Ive no 
reasonable grounds for concluding that either Avon  or anyone  else had misled  Mr and Mrs J 
into thinking this was the case. And Im satisfied the policies were clearly  explained in the 
mailings and furthermore would have paid benefit  if either Mr or Mrs J had been  unfortunate 
enough to have either died or suffered hospitalisation following an accident.
In view of this, Im satisfied the policies werent  mis-sold  and I can see no reasonable 
grounds for requiring Avon to refund Mr and Mrs Js premiums. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1865643