K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited recorded a fault claim following an 
accident involving  his daughter  a named driver  on his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr Y insures his car with Admiral, and his daughter is a named driver. Unfortunately she had 
an accident while driving the car  she collided with another car while  parking  in a car park. 
The other driver was driving along a line of parked cars while Mr Ys daughter  was trying to 
park.
Admiral investigated  the incident and dealt with the other drivers insurer.  Having done  so, it 
settled the claim brought by the other  driver on the basis that Mr Ys daughter was at fault.  
So Mr Y complained. He said Admiral  had taken into account  a witness statement given by 
the other drivers passenger, but hadnt asked for a statement from Mr Ys daughters 
passenger. And it hadnt taken into account evidence  of a phone  call Mr Y had had with the 
other drivers  mother.
Admiral said it hadnt  taken into account the other drivers passengers statement, because it 
didnt generally  think passengers were independent  witnesses. But it acknowledged that the 
other drivers  passenger had been  asked for a statement so in fairness Mr Ys daughters 
passenger should have  been asked too. It offered £50 compensation, but said this made no 
difference to the outcome of the claim since it wouldnt have put any weight on the statement 
if it had it. And it said it hadnt  taken  into account the call recording  because  Mr Y had 
made it without the consent of the person  he was speaking to, it didnt think  a court would 
accept it as admissible. And, in any case,  the other  drivers mother  wasnt present at the 
accident, so what  she said wasnt direct evidence of what  had happened.
Our investigator thought that, overall,  Admiral had made a reasonable decision in settling the 
claim in the way it did. So he said Admirals offer of compensation was fair in all the 
circumstances. Mr Y didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ys policy allow Admiral to take over any claim made by or 
against him (or named drivers) and contest or settle them as it sees fit. Thats  what  it did in 
this case, and so it wasnt  acting in breach of the terms  of the policy.  Thats  not the end of 
the matter though; I think its still important to consider whether, in this case, it acted fairly in 
doing so.
I agree  with Admiral  that little or no weight can be placed on a call recording of a discussion 
with a party who wasnt at the scene of the accident.  
If there were witnesses to the accident,  Admiral  should have asked them  for evidence.  I 
dont think its enough to say that because they were  passengers they should  automatically 
be disregarded; the fact that they were  passengers  rather  than independent witnesses is 
certainly relevant  to the weight to be given their evidence, but unless the evidence is sought 
and considered, Admiral  cant  know what weight and relevance it has. Having considered 
Ref: DRN11573322the evidence of the other passenger (and decided not to give it any weight),  it should  in all 
fairness has sought and considered the evidence of Mr Ys daughters passenger.  Its 
offered £50 compensation to recognise  that, which  I think is a fair offer.
However, Im not persuaded that doing so would have made a difference to the outcome in 
this case. 
The accident  happened  when Mr Ys daughter was parking. It seems she was manoeuvring 
in and out of a parking  space to park effectively when another  car drove into her. 
Admiral sent Mr Y a detailed explanation  of why it concluded that it was unlikely it would be 
able to show the other driver was at fault. The other driver was driving  along  the aisle of the 
car park when Mr Ys daughter pulled out her parking space and there  was a collision. 
Admiral said that the other driver had right of way. So to show  that the other driver was at 
fault, it would have to prove that the other driver  had been distracted and hadnt seen Mr Ys 
daughter having  already begun her manoeuvre  rather than that Mr Ys daughter had pulled 
out into the path of the other driver. In the absence of CCTV or independent witnesses, 
thats not easy to prove.
I therefore think that Admiral made a reasonable decision. The other  driver  was insistent that 
Mr Ys daughter was at fault. To contest the claim,  Admiral would have to be able to prove 
otherwise  and it didnt  think there  was enough  evidence to allow it to do that. If it tried, and 
the case ended up going to court, the costs would have been  much  higher. The detailed  
explanation and analysis of the evidence Admiral gave Mr Y set out the reasoning for the 
decision it made  and I think that was a fair decision in all the circumstances. So I dont 
think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1157332