K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Stagemount Limited (trading as Quid Market) irresponsibly lent to him and then 
didnt treat him positively and sympathetically  when he was unable  to repay his loan.
background
This complaint is about a payday loan Quid Market provided to Mr G on 25 March  2018. Mr 
G borrowed £400 and it was repayable in 3 monthly  instalments of £203.67. Mr G explains 
that he was gambling  heavily  at the time and took out a number of other short  term loans at 
the same  time and he wasnt able to make his repayments. He says that when he contacted 
Quid Market it didnt  treat him positively or sympathetically and has continued to chase him 
for the full debt.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint and thought  the loan shouldnt have been  given to 
Mr G based on the information  contained within the credit report. She also thought  that Quid  
Market had not properly acknowledged Mr Gs difficulties and that it had not provided him 
with a good service.  She recommended that all interest and charges be removed from the 
loan and Quid Market  should pay Mr G £100  to reflect the trouble and upset caused. Quid  
Market disagreed and the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But the 
results of those checks are relevant and should  be properly taken into account.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN17942432There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quid Market  was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Quid Market did carry out an income  and expenditure check and a credit search. I think that 
these were proportionate checks in the circumstances. But that doesnt mean that because 
the checks were done the lending was responsible. Ive looked  to see what  Quid Market 
knew about Mr G in the light of those checks and whether it was able to conclude  that the 
lending was sustainable.
Looking at the results  of the credit check I can see that Mr G had repaid a payday  loan for 
£560 on the 28 February 2018. On 11 March  2018  Mr G had taken out a payday loan for 
£514 which was due to be repaid in one instalment of £694 and at the time of applying for 
the loan with Quid Market was outstanding. Mr G had taken out and repaid  previous  short  
term loans. Quid Market  was aware that Mr G had under-declared his credit commitments 
given the results of the credit check and had adjusted his disposable income accordingly. 
Looking at the results  of the credit check it appears that Mr G was borrowing to repay credit 
and that further  lending  was likely  to be unsustainable. I think  that if Quid Market  had 
properly taken account of the credit check results it would have seen that Mr G was relying  
on short  term credit  and given the short term loan outstanding would be unlikely to 
sustainably repay  the loan.    
So Im upholding  the complaint about  the loan and Quid  Market  should put things right by 
removing all interest and charges.  Mr G should  repay the capital he has borrowed as he has 
had the benefit of the money.
Mr G explained to Quid Market the significant  problems  he was having  and how the debt 
was impacting on him. Quid  Market requested medical evidence  from Mr G and asked him to 
complete an income  and expenditure form. There was some correspondence  about setting 
up a repayment  plan and Quid Market has frozen ongoing interest and charges. Quid Market 
has also issued a default notice.
Quid Market does not have to suspend  collection activity  or waive  interest and charges when 
a consumer is in difficulty. However, given the particular  personal circumstances outlined by 
Ref: DRN17942433Mr G to Quid Market  I agree with the adjudicator that the business has not responded 
positively or sympathetically to Mr G. Continuing with collections  activity and issuing a 
default notice  is not, in my view, fair or reasonable in circumstances where Mr G has 
comprehensively outlined  his financial difficulties and significant  mental  health  issues  and 
complained about his treatment by Quid Market. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that Quid Market should  pay Mr G £100 to reflect the trouble and 
upset caused.  
 
putting things right  what Quid  Market  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges applied to the loan;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr Gs credit  file.
Pay Mr G £100  I will leave it to Mr G to decide whether he wishes  this to be 
removed from the outstanding  balance.
Arrange an affordable  repayment plan with Mr G for the capital amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.  
Stagemount Limited (trading as Quid  Market)  should  put matters  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1794243