K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs B, represented  by Ms B as executor, complains about the way Santander 
UK Plc took money  from an account  without authorisation.  
background
Ms B notified Santander of Mrs Bs death.  During the conversation she was advised  that 
£114.60 had been taken  from Mrs Bs account and paid to a government  department.  Ms B 
is unhappy about this and says Santander  did so without authority. She wants this money 
returned to the account.
Santander said in its final response that following notification  from the government  
department that an overpayment  of benefits had been made refunds are automatically 
actioned once the date of the customers death has been confirmed  electronically  and if 
there are no next of kin details on its system. Thats what it did here. If the government 
department had contacted  Santander after Ms B spoke to it she wouldve been  notified of the 
repayment request  and her permission wouldve been required. It has also said it followed its 
correct process. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
The government department notified Santander  of the death of Mrs B and explained 
that thered been an overpayment of a benefit and some money was owed back  to it. 
As the money clearly didnt belong to Mrs B or her estate Santanders repayment of it 
wasnt an unauthorised withdrawal. 
Its not unusual  for banks to receive  such requests and they have processes to deal 
with them. So it is reasonable for Santander  to have  responded to the refund request 
by repaying the government  department.  It didnt  have a choice in the matter. 
Santander returned the money  before Ms B contacted it. And as a result it wasnt  in a 
position to contact her and ask permission to return the money  as wouldve 
happened if the refund request had been  made after she contacted it.
Santander wasnt in a position  to ask for authorisation and as the repayment resulted  
from an overpayment of benefits  by the government department to Mrs B, it was 
legally obliged to return the money.  As there isnt an error  by Santander she will not 
be asking it to do anything  more.
Ms B doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says she doesnt dispute 
the money involved should be returned  to the government department. What she does  
dispute is Santanders right to take money from the account without legal authority.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander is entitled to put in place processes for situations like this. It says it wouldve 
asked for permission to make the refund if at the time it had a record of the next of kin for the 
deceased customer. But in this case it didnt  when the government department asked for the 
refund of overpaid  benefits made to Mrs B. And the government  departments request for the 
Ref: DRN18899332repayment was made  before it was contacted by Ms B. And as result it couldnt ask for her 
permission to make the refund. 
Its clear the refund  was legitimately due to the government department  and thats 
acknowledged by Ms B.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Santander did anything  wrong in the absence of 
next of kin details by making the refund  in line with its established  process. And by doing so 
it clearly hasnt disadvantaged the estate or left it in a worse financial position than it 
wouldve been in any event, even if the executors  permission had been obtained.
Ms B is unhappy with Santanders processes. But this service isnt a regulator and we cant 
require it to change  its practices and procedures. General issues  about  how the banking 
industry works are a matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
I recognise Ms Bs strength of feeling and frustration  at what happened at what was 
understandably already a very difficult time for her. But I dont think Santander has done 
anything wrong  and I dont think I can require it to do anything more.
Overall I think  the investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B as executor  
and on behalf  of the estate of the late Mrs B to accept or reject  my decision before 12 March  
2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1889933