K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made  under  
his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr K bought a car insurance policy  with UKI. In July 2017 he told it he was involved in an
incident with another car. He initially instructed  a solicitor to deal with his claim rather  than
UKI. But in September 2017 he asked  UKI to deal with the claim.
UKI instructed an engineer to inspect Mr Ks car. In October 2017 the engineer  reported  that
the damage was repairable.  But Mr K didnt want to use UKIs  approved  repairer. He wanted
a dealership garage to repair his car and replace any parts with manufacturer  parts.  UKI
reimbursed Mr K for the cost he paid for an estimate  from another garage.
Mr K wanted  UKI to pay him a cash-in-lieu  settlement for the repairs   or replace his car
with a similar one. UKI didnt agree as the engineer  said the damage to his car  while
repairable - was structural  and so he had safety  concerns. But UKI said it would cover the 
costs to repair Mr Ks car at a garage of his choice. Mr K remained unhappy.  So UKI then 
agreed to find a way to bridge the gap between the engineers repair  estimate of £14,000 
and the total loss value  it placed on Mr Ks car of £31,700. UKI said as it wasnt a natural  
total loss, the salvage value it would usually deduct didnt apply. The engineer put the 
salvage of Mr Ks car out to tender  and the highest  bid for it was £18,036. So UKI agreed to 
settle Mr Ks claim as a total loss settlement, and the salvage agent  who made the highest 
bid would  pay UKI £18,036 for the salvage of Mr Ks car.
Mr K agreed to have  his claim  settled this way. So UKI paid a total loss settlement of
£31,700. But Mr K didnt think the salvage  fee UKI intended to deduct was fair.
UKI initially said Mr K wasnt entitled to retain  the salvage. So the salvage fee wasnt
relevant. It later said it was wrong about this.
Mr Ks car was subject  to a finance  agreement.  So in December 2017 UKI settled the
finance agreement  and paid a balance  of the total loss settlement  to Mr K. UKI asked Mr K
to make arrangements for it to recover his car. But Mr K said he had arranged  for his car to
be recovered to a garage  however the recovery agent had since  closed down and his car
was missing. Mr K wasnt able to provide proof of his arrangement  with the recovery agent.
Mr K then asked UKI to give him first refusal  to keep the salvage  of the car if it turned up. He
didnt believe he couldnt retain the salvage.  He asked UKI if he could pay back the salvage
fee  even though  his car was missing. He said he intended to continue  to look for it.
UKI said that Mr K could  retain  his car for salvage if it turned up. But he would need to pay
UKI the salvage  fee of £18,036  as this was the amount  it would have received from the
salvage agent to contribute to the total loss settlement it paid.
Mr K didnt agree. He believes UKI should  either  reduce  the salvage fee it intends to deduct
if his car turns up  or it undervalued his car. He believes UKI should  only take a salvage  fee
of around 20% of the total loss settlement.
The investigator thought UKI had paid a settlement  of £3,507.46 to Mr K to compensate  him
for the period of time he was without the use of his car. And so she thought UKI had done
enough to resolve  Mr Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN15759372However, this was the balance left over from the total loss settlement after UKI had paid the
finance companys  settlement of £27,092.54 and deducted Mr Ks excess of £1,100.
In any event Mr K didnt agree. He said the total loss sum UKI decided wasnt fair. He said
he had to cover the costs  of a hire car himself as UKI didnt provide a courtesy  car. He set
out details of losses he says were  caused by UKI. He said he would accept £5,000
compensation to resolve his complaint. He wants UKI to confirm in writing that if the salvage
is found, it belongs  to him. He doesnt agree with the salvage fee it says it will ask him to pay
if this happens.
The investigator thought UKI should pay compensation  to Mr K of £300.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 December 2018. I thought  UKI had acted reasonably so 
I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Ks complaint.  
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr K didnt agree and has made a number of 
comments which I will address in my findings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold
it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ks policy  with UKI says that the most  it will pay in the event of a claim is the market
value of his car at the time of loss. Ive addressed  Mr Ks complaint as to whether  the market
value UKI reached  was unfair later in my decision.
The engineer told UKI that Mr Ks car was repairable. Under the terms of the policy  Mr K can
have his car repaired by one of UKIs  approved repairers if he makes a claim. But Mr K didnt
want to do this. He wanted  UKI to pay him a cash sum equal to the estimate for repairs that
he provided from another garage - and make his own arrangements.  The engineer didnt
agree to this as he said the damage was structural and he had concerns about  the safety of
the car. So as an alternative option, UKI said it could settle the claim as a total loss
settlement  provided  it could bridge the gap between the repair estimate and the market
value for his car.
An insurer  usually deems a car a write  off when the estimated costs to repair  it are more
than 60% of the market value of the car. I understand Mr K believes the salvage fee of
£18,036 is too high. But the engineers  view was that his car was repairable.  So UKI was
only obliged  to cover  the costs of the repairs to Mr Ks car to settle his claim at around
£14,000. But it agreed to pay Mr K the total loss market value for his car at £31,700. This
meant that UKI was at a loss for the difference  between  the £14,000 and £31,700. 
Any commercial arrangement UKI had with a salvage agent for written off cars didnt apply in
this case. We find that usually the salvage  fee is within the range of 20% and 30% of the
market value of the vehicle.
Mr K provided a copy of a letter UKI sent him confirming its standard salvage rates.  We
asked UKI why it did this as these rates didnt apply in Mr Ks case.
Ref: DRN15759373UKIs notes  show that Mr K asked UKI to provide him with a letter  confirming its standard
salvage rates if his car had been  written off as category S: with structural damage and
category N: with non-structural  damage. The rates UKI confirmed are within  the percentages
Ive mentioned. But I dont think that because UKI confirmed these rates to Mr K, it makes a
difference. In my provisional decision I said this was because  Mr Ks car wasnt written off. 
This isnt correct. As UKI settled Mr Ks claim as a total loss settlement it recorded his car as 
a Category S write off. 
But I dont think this changes the outcome. The proposal UKI offered  Mr K was outside of the 
terms of the policy. So I think  it tried to reasonably settle the claim as closely to Mr Ks 
wishes. I see nothing wrong in the proposal  UKI offered to Mr K as a way to settle his claim.  
It received a bid of £18,036 from a salvage  agent for the salvage of Mr Ks car. And this 
made up the shortfall between the engineers estimate for repairs and the market  value it 
paid Mr K.
So if Mr Ks car is found and he wants to keep it, I dont think  its unreasonable  for UKI to
allow Mr K to retain the salvage - provided  he repays the salvage  fee of £18,036. As things 
stand, as UKI has paid Mr K a total loss settlement for his car, the car becomes UKIs 
property. 
I understand Mr K is unhappy that UKI initially told him he wasnt entitled to retain the
salvage. UKI accepted that this wasnt correct. As Mr Ks car was still missing up until UKI
realised its error, I cant say that Mr K has suffered any loss as a result of the initial
information UKI gave  him.
In summary,  Mr K has listed  the following losses which he believes were caused by UKI:
- Monthly finance repayments for the car from July 2017 until December 2017
- Car insurance monthly repayments and car tax for the same period
- Costs  for alternative transport and car hire
- The excess payment of £1,100
- The reduction in his No Claims  Bonus  (NCB)  as a result of the claim
- A shortfall in the market  value UKI paid for his car as he believes it was worth
  £34,500.
Mr K believes hes at a loss by around £8,700. He said he will accept a compensation award
of £5,000 to resolve his complaint.
I apologise for the confusion that has been  caused by us in relation to the balance  UKI paid
to Mr K of £3,507.46.  This wasnt a compensation award from UKI to Mr K for loss of use. It
was the balance left after UKI settled the finance  amount due for his car from the total loss
settlement.
Mr Ks policy  defines the market value as the cost of replacing your car with another  of the
same make and model and of a similar  age and condition at the time of the accident  or loss.
We dont decide  a market value. But we look at whether an insurer  has decided  a value in a
reasonable way. We have  a long standing approach which  we think  is the fairest  way to
decide a valuation for a vehicle. We look at the main motor  trade industry  guides which
provide valuations for cars using nationwide  research. The valuations are based on likely
selling prices and provide  varying values depending  on the condition  and type of sale for a
car of a similar make, model, mileage and specification. 
Ref: DRN15759374In other  words, the guides  provide valuations for what  Mr Ks car would  sell at trade, 
privately and at a garage. An insurer should use the valuation based on the car being  sold at 
a garage. We think the guides  are more reliable than adverts  as these range widely:  the 
advertised price tends to give room  to negotiate the price down.
We checked the motor  trade guides  and found  that these ranged between  £31,072  and
£31,980. I know Mr K strongly believes that his car is worth more  than UKI paid. But UKI 
paid a market  value of £31,700,  which was within the range of the guides. So I think it 
reached its valuation  in a fair and reasonable way  and in line with the policy.
Although the incident happened in July 2017, Mr K didnt  ask UKI to deal with his claim until
late September 2017. So I dont  think its responsible for any financial  loss between July and
September 2017.
UKI instructed an engineer to look at Mr Ks car in October 2017. Between  October and
November 2017  Mr K was in discussion  with UKI and the engineer as he didnt want  to have
his car repaired by an approved repairer. He wanted  a cash in lieu settlement or a
replacement car. This meant his claim took longer to settle. So I dont think  UKI is 
responsible for any delay.  I think UKI dealt with his claim within a reasonable period of time 
UKI said it would  agree  for a garage  of Mr Ks choice  to carry out the repairs.  But it didnt 
agree to pay Mr K a cash  in lieu payment as it had concerns about the structural damage  to 
the car. I dont think this was unreasonable of UKI, although I understand Mr K didnt want  to 
use the approved  repairer. Mr K was unhappy  that the approved repairer  might  use non 
manufacturer parts to repair his car. However, his policy with UKI says:
We may decide to repair  your car with parts which have not been made by your 
cars manufacturer but which are of a similar standard,  including recycled  parts.
So I dont  think UKI did anything wrong here.
Mr Ks policy  says he is entitled to a courtesy car while his car is being repaired  by an
approved repairer.  As Mr K didnt  take this option   and as his claim was settled as a total 
loss settlement  he wasnt entitled to a courtesy  car. So I dont think UKI should reimburse 
Mr K for hire car or alternative transport costs.
As Mr K made a claim under his policy, his full years premium is due. UKI explained this in a
letter to Mr K dated 6 December 2017.
Mr Ks policy  explains  that the excess is the first part of the claim which  he has to pay. If the
other drivers  insurer  accepts full liability for the incident and UKI is able to recover  all of its
costs including  the excess,  it will refund the excess to Mr K. But the other drivers  insurer has
told UKI that its dealing  with the claim under the terms  of the Road Traffic Act. It says its
voided its insurers policy as if it didnt exist.
Until a claim is settled,  an insurer  will record the claim  on the Central  Underwriting Exchange
(CUE) database as a fault claim. Unless the full costs of the claim are recovered,  the claim
will remain  recorded as this. If an insurer is able to recover all of the costs  of a claim it can
change how it registered the claim to a non fault claim. The claim hasnt yet been settled so
I cant comment on the likelihood  of Mr K receiving  a full refund  of the excess  he correctly
owed from UKI.
Ref: DRN15759375Mr K has raised an issue about  the length  of time he had to wait for recovery after the 
incident happened. This isnt a complaint  he made under this case, so it doesnt form part of 
my decision.  
Taking everything into account,  I think UKI acted  reasonably. So Im not asking it to do any 
more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1575937