K820x#14complaint
Mrs L and the Estate of Mr L say Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold the late Mr L a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  alongside a loan in 1995 and 2000. I am sorry to 
see Mr L has passed away. In the hope that Mrs L wont mind,  I will refer to The Estate of 
Mr L as Mr L in my decision. 
The policy sold in 1995 was paid by a single premium  that was added to the loan and 
attracted interest. The policy sold in 2000 was paid for by a monthly premium. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs and Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr L 
disagreed, so the case was passed to me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs and Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Did BoS obtain  Mr Ls consent and make  it clear the PPI was optional? 
The loan and PPI sold in 1995 were  in Mr Ls name  only. When  selling the PPI to Mr L, BoS 
shouldve made  it clear the policy was optional. It also shouldve got Mr Ls agreement  to 
take it out. Mrs and Mr L say it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional.   
BoS says the PPI was arranged during a meeting in branch and it no longer holds copies of 
the paperwork completed at the time.  This is unfortunate, but not surprising given how long 
ago the sale took place.  BoS has provided  a generic loan agreement and application that it 
says was used  at the time the PPI was sold. On the application there  is a section called 
Protecting your payments and the applicant  has to sign for the PPI to be added. And on the 
loan agreement there is a separate section  for the PPI and there is a Yes and No tick box 
next to the question Do you want Personal  Loan Repayments Insurance?. This is followed 
by a breakdown  of the cost of the PPI and what the monthly loan and insurance payments 
will be. Overall,  I think I can rely on the sample to show Mr L ought to have been  aware  of 
the PPI, that it was optional, and that he chose to go ahead  with it. 
The loan arranged  in 2000 was in Mrs and Mr Ls name,  but the PPI was just in Mr Ls name. 
Again, when selling the PPI to Mrs and Mr L, BoS shouldve made it clear the policy  was 
optional. It also shouldve  got their agreement to take it out. Mrs and Mr L say it wasnt  made 
clear the PPI was optional  on this occasion  too.
BoS has provided a copy of the loan agreement from the time.  Ive considered Mrs and 
Mr Ls comments alongside  this. On the agreement  there is a section about PPI and a cross 
has been placed in the Yes box next to the question Do you want Personal  Loan 
Repayments Insurance?.  There  is also a breakdown of the cost of the PPI. Although  this 
may have  been  completed by BoS I can see the agreement has been  signed by Mrs and 
Mr L and I would have  expected them to query  anything that was on it that they werent sure 
about. 
Ref: DRN16904502So overall, I think BoS got Mr Ls consent  to add the PPI and it did enough to make  it clear 
the PPI was optional during both sales. 
Were the PPI policies  right for Mr L?
Mrs and Mr L say that the PPI was recommended to them on both occasions. Ive looked at 
the complaint  on the basis that BoS recommended the PPI to Mr L as this places a greater 
level of responsibility  on BoS. So this means that it should have taken steps to check  if the 
PPI was right for Mr L. I dont know if it did, but I think  it was right for him in any case 
because:
From  what Mr Ls told us about  his circumstances at the time for both sales, I think 
he was eligible for the PPI. And I dont think he was affected by any of the main  
things the PPI didnt cover or limited  cover for.
Mr L says he wouldve received up to 12 months sick pay from his employer when he 
was sold both policies.  The 1995  PPI wouldve paid until the end of the loan for a 
single disability claim if Mr L had made  a successful claim. It also paid unemployment 
benefits for up to 12 months per claim. The 2000 PPI wouldve paid out for the same 
amount of time.  And both of these policies would  have paid out on top of any 
employer benefits, leaving them  to help cover other everyday living expenses.  So I 
still think the PPI offered  Mr L useful protection.
The PPI sold in 1995 didnt give a proportional  refund of the premium  and so was 
expensive to cancel   if the loan was paid off early.  But theres nothing to show he 
intended to settle  the loan early when he took it out. And as the 2000 PPI was paid 
for by a monthly premium, Mr L could have  cancelled it at any time.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr L couldnt afford the PPI on both occasions.
BoS also had to give Mr L enough information for him to make to make  an informed decision 
about taking the PPI.  The sample  loan agreement for the 1995 policy  sets out the premium,  
interest it would  accrue, total cost of the PPI and monthly payment. I think  BoS would have 
made the PPIs  costs  clear to Mr L because I think  it likely they were presented to him in a 
similar way. 
Its not clear if BoS told Mr L everything  else he needed to know  in both 1995  and 2000, or 
how well this was explained. So I think it might  not have done enough here. But, for the 
same reasons I think the PPI was right for Mr L, I think  even if BoS had given him better 
information hed still have bought  the  policies. 
So taking everything into account, including Mrs and Mr Ls comments, I dont think Mrs and 
Mr L lost out as a result  of anything BoS mightve  done wrong.
Ive thought about everything Mrs and Mr L have said, including  Mrs Ls comments  that Mr L 
was unwell and didnt claim on the cover. BoS has told us that Mr L did make  a successful 
claim on the PPI in 2002 and received a pay-out. So I think  it was of use to him.  So for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.  I know  this will be disappointing 
but I hope my decision clearly addresses  Mrs and Mr Ls concerns.
Ref: DRN16904503my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1690450