K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) gave her poor 
service and wrongly settled a claim against  her motor insurance policy.
background
Another insurer told LV that Mrs M had opened  the door of her parked car into the passing  
car of a driver insured  by it. Mrs M told LV that the door was slightly open and she was 
waiting for a chance to open  it fully when the other car passed by - at speed and too close.  
She said her car door was hit and the impact  threw her out of the car, causing her injury.
LV didnt think it could  defend the claim,  as there was no independent evidence of what had 
happened. It didnt think the damage to the cars assisted Mrs L with her version  of events. 
As the other  insurer  had threatened to issue legal proceedings, LV decided  to settle the 
other drivers  claim. It agreed  to Mrs Ms request for a change of case handler, and it paid 
her £50 compensation for not making the change earlier.
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Ms complaint. She thought LV had made  a 
reasonable decision on liability. She didnt  agree  with Mrs L that LVs engineer should have 
visited the scene  of the accident or reviewed the damage to the cars in person. She didnt 
think it needed a full statement from Mrs M or from the other driver.  And she didnt think  the 
other driver had intimidated LV or influenced  its decision.  
The investigator thought LV had dealt  with the claim in a reasonable time and had explained 
its intention to settle the claim and why. She didnt think LV had a customer care charter, 
despite Mrs M having complained about not getting a copy  of it. She noted that it agreed to a 
change of case handler on request. Although it didnt  ask if Mrs M had reported  the incident  
to the police, the investigator didnt think a police report would have helped with the liability 
issue. She noted that Mrs M had asked LV to make  reasonable adjustments for her health 
conditions, but the investigator didnt think it could have done  anything different to assist  her. 
In terms of Mrs Ms injuries, the investigator thought LV was right to advise her that the 
policy didnt cover personal injury, and that shed have to find a solicitor to act for her. 
Mrs M said the other driver hadnt complied  with the Highway Code in terms of driving with 
due care and attention  and driving  slowly on residential streets. So in her view, LV should 
have dismissed the claim. She said the other driver  had committed a criminal offence  in not 
reporting an accident where someone was injured  to the police. LV didnt agree that there 
was evidence of the two breaches Mrs M set out. It said another part of the Highway Code  
requires drivers to check for other  road users before opening a car door.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
In some circumstances  I think it would amount to poor service if an insurer  didnt ask for a 
full account of events from both parties  to an accident. But in this case the issue  was 
straightforward. LV has provided a copy of the letter  to it from the other insurer that set out 
Ref: DRN18937402the other drivers account. LV then sought  Mrs Ms account. In the circumstances here, I 
think that was reasonable. I dont think it needed to send an engineer  out to inspect the car 
or the location of the accident, either. In my opinion, it wasnt  wrong for LV to consider that 
viewing the scene remotely and looking at the clear photos of the damage was sufficient. 
We dont decide  who is at fault for an accident.  But Ive looked at how LV dealt with the claim 
overall, bearing in mind  that the policy allowed LV to decide whether to settle it or not. In my 
opinion, LV acted  reasonably. It noted  the parties accounts of how the accident happened  
along with the type of damage  to the other drivers car. LV told Mrs M that it didnt think the 
damage supported  her account. Having seen  the photos, I think  that was fair. LV didnt say it 
disbelieved Mrs M, but the physical evidence didnt help her. And by settling the claim, it 
stopped the other drivers  solicitors taking legal action against  her. 
I think it was fair for LV to decide that it had no reasonable prospect of defending the other 
drivers claim  in court. There was no independent evidence  that the other driver had 
breached parts of the Highway Code. LV thought it was likely to have to pay the other  
drivers legal  costs as well as the cost of the damage to her car should it argue the case in 
court. We think its reasonable for insurers not to defend  claims where there seem to be no 
reasonable prospects of success. But LV settled the claim without prejudice. It advised 
Mrs M that she could still instruct a solicitor and make a personal  injury claim.
I can see from the case file that LVs advisors  spent a lot of time trying to explain the 
situation to Mrs M. The notes show that she felt the advisors didnt listen  to her  and they in 
turn thought  Mrs M wasnt  taking on board what they were saying. I think the content  of the 
calls shows that advisors  did their best to set out the facts. LV also sent clear letters to
Mrs M about  the claims process and the reasons  why it thought it had to settle the claim. 
LV noted  Mrs Ms health problems. I think the correspondence on the file shows  that she had 
many issues  to contend  with, so dealing with the claim must have been very difficult for her. 
But Im not sure what else LV could reasonably have done  to lessen the stress she faced. 
Mrs M was traumatised by the accident.  She disagreed with LVs view of the claim. She 
didnt think LV had investigated it properly. As LV wasnt prepared to change its stance on 
liability  or take further action in line with her wishes  I think any contact with it was bound 
to increase Mrs Ms frustration and level of stress.  
I dont think LV has a customer  care charter,  as Mrs M believes. But I think  it tried to act 
reasonably in dealing with Mrs Ms concerns.  LV changed her claims handlers on request. It 
compensated her for not doing so more  quickly.  It co-operated  with her solicitor.  I dont  think 
LVs advisors caused a problem for Mrs M by not advising  her to contact the police. I dont  
think any criminal  issue arising from the other  driver not contacting  the police was for LV to 
address. In my opinion,  it wasnt LVs role to advise Mrs M to seek medical assistance, as 
she has suggested. And it seems shed  already  done so by the time LV contacted her about 
the accident anyway.  
In my view, the service LV gave Mrs M was reasonable. I think  it gave Mrs M the right advice 
about her personal  injury  claim and made a reasonable decision about liability  for the 
accident. Unfortunately, that meant  Mrs M lost part of her no claims discount, which will have 
an effect on her premiums. So although I understand  why Mrs M was distressed by the 
accident and by what happened  afterwards,  I cant uphold her complaint  about LV.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN18937403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019,
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1893740