K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading  at the time as Egg)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs L or Barclays sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do  if it hasnt already done so
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading at the time as Egg) has to pay back  to Mrs L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  at 
the time as Egg) should also pay back to Mrs L any extra interest she paid because  of that.
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading at the time as Egg) should re-work the credit card account  and pay 
back to Mrs L the difference between what she owes and what  she wouldve owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC (trading at the time as Egg) should  also pay Mrs L 8%* simple  interest  if Mrs L paid off her 
credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs L can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  at the time as Egg) does have to pay back to Mrs L  if it 
hasnt already done so, any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
Ref: DRN13733742Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN13733743copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken  out in 2001. 
Mrs L says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  at the time as Egg) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Egg made it clear that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because Egg has shown us example screenshots that they say are representative  
of what  Mrs L would have seen when applying for the credit card and PPI.
Ive considered these alongside what we know more widely  about how Egg sold PPI during 
online sales  around the time this policy was taken out. I think that its more  likely  than not that 
Egg followed their normal sales process  and Mrs L would  have been presented with an option 
for PPI and she chose to take it out.
Egg didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible  the information Mrs L gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Ive carefully considered what Mrs L has told us about a pre-existing  medical condition she 
says she had at the time of sale. This is important as this policy, broadly speaking, excluded 
PEMCs. I dont think  that Egg gave Mrs L good enough information about this exclusion. So 
Ive gone on to think  about whether or not Mrs L would have  made the same decision (to take 
out PPI) if she had been given good enough  information. Having done so, I still think  that Mrs 
L would  have taken out the PPI.
I say this because:
oMrs L has told us that she was diagnosed with the cardio vascular  condition following 
a pregnancy related  condition around 1991
oIt seems that Mrs L controlled  the PEMC using medication
oMrs L has told us that she never had significant time off work as a result of the PEMC 
and she would have  been diagnosed 10 years previous to the sale.  I accept that 
health circumstances can change. 
oIm conscious  that the PEMC Ive been  told about can, in some cases, lead to other 
medical conditions. But this particular PPI policy didnt  exclude any related conditions 
that might develop  as a result of Mrs Ls PEMC. 
On balance I think that its more likely than not that Mrs L would have  thought  that the 
chances of her being unwell for 30 consecutive  days  (the waiting period before a claim  could 
Ref: DRN13733744be made) because of her PEMC were relatively  low and that shed still want to be covered  for 
all of the other reasons  why she might be unwell and need time off work  potentially  for a lot 
longer. 
Based on what Ive seen of her wider circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like  she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would  have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  To be clear, I 
dont agree with Eggs assertion that Mrs L was given  good enough information  about  the 
PEMC limitations and exclusions but for the reason Ive explained, I dont  uphold the 
complaint for this reason. . 
Which means in this case Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Egg has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so 
it should  have told Mrs L about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said, but these points dont currently change my decision.  Ive 
come to my provisional decision based on the evidence received so far. 
If Mrs L or Egg have  anything further to add, they now have the opportunity to do so.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading at the time as Egg) does not 
have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading at the time as Egg) does have to pay back to Mrs L any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already  done 
this, I dont award any further compensation. 
If Mrs L or Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading at the time as Egg) have anything  further to add, they 
should do so by 28 April 2019 and Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1373374