K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that BMW  Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) misled him into taking 
out a finance agreement  when he wanted  to buy a car.  
background
Mr T took out a PCP agreement for a car with BMWFS in 2014. The cash  price  of the car 
was £56,500.  Mr T paid £22,600 as a deposit, £17,000 of which was the trade in value of his 
existing car which  he used in part exchange.   Mr T says he was persuaded to take out the 
PCP because he had been led to believe that it would be financially advantageous  to do so. 
I explain this in more  detail in my findings.  
When the agreement  came to an end four years  later, Mr T realised  that he owed more on 
the car than he thought. The car had a lower second-hand  value than he had expected,  
which left him a significant sum to pay off if he wanted to keep the car, or with less money 
with which  to put a deposit on a new vehicle. 
Mr T says that if he hadnt been  led to believe his car would have more equity in it at the end 
of the PCP then he would have bought  it outright and he wouldnt have had to pay interest 
on the agreement. Mr T eventually paid the balloon payment, also known as the 
Guaranteed Future Value so that he owned  the car outright.
BMWFS investigated Mr Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. As a gesture  of goodwill, it offered 
Mr T £500 towards a new car deal.
Mr T wasnt happy with BMWFSs response  and brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator thought that it was likely Mr T was wrongly led to believe the PCP would 
provide the financial advantage described.  But the investigator didnt award  any 
compensation because she didnt think Mr T had suffered a financial loss as a result  of this. 
BMWFS didnt respond to the investigators view. Mr T agreed with the investigators 
findings, but didnt think the investigator  had properly taken into account the impact the 
events had on Mr and Mrs T. So, the case was passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 January 2020, taking into account  Mr Ts comments  
after the initial view provided by the investigator. I didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint.  And I 
explained why I agreed with the investigator  that even if Mr Ts complaint was upheld  he 
wouldnt be entitled to any compensation.
BMWFS confirmed that it agreed with my decision and didnt  have anything  further to add. 
Mr T didnt  agree with my decision. He said that his car had lost considerably more in value 
than he expected or had been  led to believe.  Mr T indicated that he had further 
correspondence he wanted me to consider in the form of emails  between him and the 
salesman, querying  the finance.  However, despite  extending the deadline for receipt  of these 
by over a month they have not been  received. 
Ref: DRN11408682my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFS didnt directly  sell the PCP agreement to Mr T. It was the finance  provider, or 
creditor. The agreement was actually sold by the motor dealership.  But s.56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  sets out that any negotiations by a credit broker (in this case  the 
dealership) in relation to making a regulated credit agreement are deemed to have  been  
made on behalf of the creditor (in this case BMWFS). The dealership was therefore  acting as 
BMWFSs agent when  selling and negotiating the terms of the PCP agreement in 2014. 
In cases like this, where  sales have been made face to face there isnt any evidence of 
exactly what was said at the point of sale. So, I have  to base  my decision on what  I think 
most likely happened,  and the evidence I do have, such as the finance documents and terms 
and conditions. Ive also taken into account Mr Ts recollections of the sale and his previous 
buying habits  as well as his actions later on and his response to the view of the investigator. 
PCPs are a type of hire purchase  agreement.  The key feature of a PCP is that the value of 
the car at the end of the contract  is assessed at the start of the agreement  and that cost 
deferred, resulting  in lower monthly repayments. PCPs provide the flexibility to own the car 
at the end of the agreement by paying the deferred value (in this case  referred to as the 
Guaranteed Future Value  GFV), or to enter  into a new agreement (using any equity built 
up over the course  of the existing agreement).  The consumer also has the option to simply 
give the car back, but they will potentially incur  costs for excess  mileage or damage.  
Mr T suggests that the dealership gave  misleading, incomplete and confusing information  
about the agreement which meant that he did something he wouldnt otherwise have done  
he says that he would have paid for the car upfront without the need for a credit  agreement 
otherwise and that hes lost out as a result. 
Mr T explains that he was told by the dealership  that by taking the PCP he would have a 
substantial amount to put towards  a new vehicle when the agreement finished. Mr T says he 
understood that, even taking into account the interest payable under the agreement, the 
PCP would result in his car being worth  more than its real second-hand value taking into 
account depreciation and so it would cost him less than buying it outright  from the start. 
When Mr T took his car to other  dealers for valuation for part exchange,  he found it was 
worth less than the GFV.
The GFV always had to be paid at the end of the agreement if Mr T wanted to keep the car 
or trade it for a new one. If he chose  to part exchange and got more for it than the GFV then 
Mr T would have benefitted. This is what he says he was told when the agreement was sold 
to him, although Mr T says he was guaranteed to have  benefitted. Mr T says that he did, 
indeed, get a valuation of between £25,000  and £28,000 elsewhere. So, he could have paid 
the GFV and sold it elsewhere  for this sum, realising a profit  of between about  £3,000  and 
£6,000. So even if I thought the dealership had misled Mr T about what the car might  be 
worth if he were to return it to them, he hasnt lost out as he was still able to find other 
dealers willing to pay considerably more than the GFV.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr T reiterated that his car lost far more  in value 
over the course  of the agreement  than he was led to believe it would. He said he had emails  
Ref: DRN11408683which showed he queried the finance  agreement. But Mr T hasnt provided these, so I dont 
know whether theyre relevant to Mr Ts complaint.   
Mr T said that he always usually paid for his cars in full. I cant know for sure whether this 
was the case,  but Mr T has provided evidence  that he had the funds available to do so in 
2014. So, the investigator concluded that Mr T would  only have taken the PCP if hed been 
led to believe there was a financial  advantage to him doing so  that is, that it would  cost him 
less, or leave him with a vehicle worth  more, than if he paid for it outright  at the start. And as 
there was nothing in the paperwork to suggest  this was the case,  the investigator thought 
that this most likely happened  during  the sales discussion.
Mr T provided evidence of his substantial  share  portfolio in October 2018, as well as 
evidence of the sale of about  £68,000  of shares  in early 2016. Mr T says these shares were 
all available to him in 2014 when  he took out the agreement. Im satisfied that if Mr T had 
wanted to buy the car outright in 2014 then he had the means  to do so. 
But Mr T indicated in his response to the initial view that he may not have intended to pay for 
his car in cash if he hadnt taken the PCP.  He says in relation to the balloon  payment (or 
OPR)
Nowhere in our financial  plans did we intend  on paying  such  a large amount out, nor did we 
have the spare money. We felt like we had no option  but to locate funds  from lifetime  
savings (pension) or be left without a vehicle.  Therefore, the money that was earmarked for 
our familys future is no longer available.
If Mr T hadnt  intended to use these  savings to pay the balloon payment of roughly £22,500  
in 2018 (plus the instalments including  interest over the course of the agreement), I dont 
think he would have  intended to pay the total cost of about £56,500 in 2014 either. 
Whichever method  Mr T chose to pay for the car, he would  have had to pay a minimum of 
£56,500 if he wanted to own it outright, as he suggests he did. So, the only additional cost 
involved was the interest  payable  under the PCP  about £5,430. I havent seen anything 
other than what Mr T has told this service  which  might suggest he was told hed have to pay 
less or that the car would  be worth substantially more than the GFV. Theres nothing in the 
paperwork that indicates anything other than that the GFV (or OPR) would be £22,500. Mr T 
was an experienced buyer of vehicles (although not, I accept, of car finance) so I dont think  
hed have had an unrealistic view of what the car would have been worth after four years. 
And he did obtain higher valuations for the car elsewhere and could have sold it privately for 
a profit   paying only the lower GFV to BMWFS.
On balance, I dont  think BMWFS or the dealership  did anything wrong when it sold the PCP 
arrangement to Mr T. I cant be satisfied that any false statement of fact was made or that it 
induced Mr T to enter into the finance  agreement. It follows that BMWFS doesnt have to pay 
any compensation. 
However, even if I am wrong about  this, I dont think Mr T has lost out as a result. If I accept 
that Mr T wouldnt  have entered into the PCP agreement  without  misrepresentation of the 
agreement by BMWFSs agent  then fair compensation would be to put Mr T in the position 
he would  have been if he hadnt  entered into the agreement. 
Mr T says he would have cashed  in shares  to pay for the car in full in 2014. He has provided 
evidence to show that he was in a position to do so. But the value of those shares  increased  
Ref: DRN11408684considerably between 2014  and 2018   by more than the additional cost of the PCP 
arrangement. So Mr T hasnt lost out as a result  of taking the PCP. In fact, he is better off. 
Mr T also says that the monthly payments for the PCP heavily impacted on his mortgage 
and, due to the monthly outgoing  for the PCP repayments he was unable to secure  a better  
deal for their mortgage. Mr T is arguing  that any compensation he receives should take this 
into account. 
I havent seen  any evidence that the PCP resulted in Mr T being unable to secure a cheaper 
mortgage. Mr T has had the opportunity to provide this since  I issued my provisional  
decision. And his overall borrowing situation  should  have  been something Mr T took into 
account when  deciding on his method of payment for the car.  I dont think  its something  the 
dealership could, or should, have advised him about.  So,  I dont think this means that he 
should receive any additional  compensation as a result. 
Mr T has also argued that had he paid in cash outright that he still would have had 
possession of the vehicle he used in part exchange   which  would have had a residual value 
now. But I think even if Mr T had decided to pay cash at the outset that he would have used  
his existing vehicle  in part exchange. And in any case, if he hadnt part exchanged his 
existing car hed have  had to pay more up front or paid larger instalments during the course  
of the agreement. So I dont think Mr T has lost out here either. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint, so it follows that BMW Financial Services  (GB)  Limited 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1140868