K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs C took out with a store  card in 2000. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think FICL made it 
clear to Mrs C that she had a choice  about buying the PPI.
Mrs C says that PPI wasnt mentioned when she was taking out the store card,  and that it 
was added without  her consent.  She says that, if it had been mentioned, she would have 
refused to take it out. Mrs C has been  consistent  about this throughout her complaint  and, as 
she was present at the sale, I find her evidence persuasive.
FICL has said that Mrs C wouldve been given sufficient information at the sale to allow  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  or not to take out the PPI. And it says Mrs C 
wouldve been sent documents confirming the sale of the policy. But it hasnt been able to 
send us any evidence  from the sale to show that Mrs C was given a choice about the PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its more likely than not that FICL didnt make it clear  to 
Mrs C that she had a choice about  the PPI. And I dont think  Mrs C wouldve taken out the 
policy if FICL had made it clear to her that she had a choice about it. So I think  Mrs C has 
lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN16074682FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1607468