K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a Silver packaged bank account. 
background
Mrs Gs account history  is as follows:
June 2007:  opened as a fee-free account
July 2013:  converted  to a Silver account
May 2018: converted back to a fee-free account.  
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think the Silver account had been       
mis-sold. Mrs G disagreed with this so the complaint  has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Gs complaint. 
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds mis sold the Silver account. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Gs explanation of why she thinks the account  was mis-sold has changed  over time. She 
initially complained  to Lloyds that when she took out her current account, she wasnt  told 
about fee-free  accounts and that shed had to pay fees since  the account was opened in 
2007. But Lloyds  explained the account  had been  opened as a fee-free account and 
converted to a packaged account in 2013. 
Mrs G then told us Lloyds  said she had to take out the Silver account as fee-free  accounts  
would no longer be available. And after she was sent the adjudicators assessment she said 
she applied  for a loan and was told she had to have the Silver account as it would allow her 
to take out loans in the future.  
Because Mrs Gs version of what happened has changed throughout the complaint, I havent 
been able to place much weight on her recollections. So Ive taken into account everything  
available to me to determine what I think is most  likely to have happened  in the 
circumstances. 
Looking at Mrs Gs account  history, I cant see that she applied  for a loan at the same  time 
as converting the current account, or shortly  afterwards. So I dont think  its more  likely a 
Lloyds representative  told her she had to have  the Silver account to take out a loan.  
Lloyds has confirmed Mrs G converted the account  online. Mrs G has said she didnt have 
access to the internet  at the time, so must have gone into a branch. Lloyds has provided 
evidence in the form of its internal system notes showing the account was converted online, 
and Im satisfied its more likely this is how the account was changed to a Silver account. 
Ref: DRN16984032Because of this, Mrs G actively  chose  to upgrade to the Silver account  without any human 
interaction from Lloyds. And seeing as she already had a fee-free account, I think  its more 
likely she wouldve known  she didnt have to pay a fee for the account if she didnt  want to. 
Considering all of this, I think its more likely Mrs G chose to take out the Silver account, 
knowing she couldve kept her fee-free account if she wanted  to.  
As the account  was converted online,  Lloyds  didnt give Mrs G a personal recommendation 
for the account  based on her individual  circumstances Because of this, it didnt have to make 
sure the account  was suitable for her. But it did have  to give her enough information so she 
knew what she was agreeing to. 
From what  I know of how Lloyds online process  worked at the time, I think  the main benefits 
on the Silver  account wouldve  been listed for Mrs G to see. These included  European travel  
insurance, mobile phone  insurance and breakdown cover.  But  I dont think  that the detailed 
information, such as the significant terms or exclusions, wouldve been clearly set out. Ive 
thought about this, and I cant see that Mrs G wouldve been affected by any of the 
significant terms or exclusions on the various  benefits. So I dont think better  information  
about the Silver account wouldve made her change her mind  about converting to it. 
I note that Mrs G applied  for an overdraft  on the same day as converting to the Silver 
account. One of the benefits  of the Silver account was a £50 interest and fee-free overdraft, 
so its possible Mrs G was interested in this benefit and the savings it offered. Mrs G has 
also confirmed that she drove at the time of the sale,  so I see no reason why she couldnt 
have relied on the breakdown cover. Mrs Gs statements also show  she paid a travel 
company £300  just five months after taking  out the Silver account, so I also think  she 
couldve relied on the travel insurance.  
I appreciate that, with hindsight, Mrs G feels that she shouldnt  have upgraded the account.  
And given  what she may have read or heard about packaged bank accounts, I can to some 
extend understand why she believes the Silver account might  have been mis-sold. But I 
think its more likely  than not that Mrs G chose to take out the Silver  account after having  a 
reasonable idea of what it entailed. So overall,  I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver 
account to Mrs G.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1698403