K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr R and Ms A say Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision saying that we couldnt look at whether or not the PPI was 
mis-sold. And that Bank of Scotland had now made on offer of settlement which  I thought 
was fair. Neither Mr R and Ms A nor Bank  of Scotland provided any further comments. So 
this final decision is in line with what I said in my provisional decision. 
my findings
I cant look at every aspect of every complaint that is referred to me. The dispute resolution 
(DISP) rules that govern  our service are set out in the redress  section of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  handbook, which can be viewed online at 
www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook. DISP 2.8 sets out the time limits that apply to 
complaints brought to our service.
I dont think I can look at whether or not the PPI was mis-sold, because  Bank  of Scotland  
issued a final response letter dealing with this issue  in November 2012. DISP 2.8.2 says that 
I cannot consider  a complaint brought  to us more than six months after a final response  
letter was issued  unless Bank  of Scotland consents to me doing  so, or the delay was due 
to exceptional  circumstances.
Mr R and Ms A only referred  their complaint to us in 2016,  which is more than six months 
after the final response letter was issued. And Im not aware of any exceptional  
circumstances that caused the delay. So I cant make a decision on whether or not the PPI 
was mis-sold, as this complaint wasnt referred  to us in time.
However, in 2017,  following a Supreme Court  judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), issued  some new rules about  how businesses  should deal with complaints about 
PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Bank of Scotland didnt deal with this issue in its 2012 letter, but issued a final response 
letter on this point in 2016  saying  it was waiting for the FCA to finalise its new rules.  This 
complaint was referred to us within six months of that letter. So I can look at this part of the 
complaint.
Bank of Scotland has now said that the level of commission and profit  share it received was 
above 50% and it didnt  tell Mr R and Ms A about it at the time of sale.  So to put things right 
it offered to refund the extra Mr R and Ms A paid each month because the commission  and 
Ref: DRN10975542profit share it received  was more than 50% of the cost of PPI premium. It also said it would 
include 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr R and Ms A for any time they were 
out of pocket.
Mr R and Ms A say there have been  other  court cases in relation to non-disclosure of 
commission where consumers have received everything back. So they think Bank of 
Scotland should refund all of the money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr R and Ms As complaint is the law. But I also need to take into 
account relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Bank of Scotland has made Mr R and Ms A an offer of compensation in relation 
to the level of commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But 
Mr R and Ms A want Bank of Scotland to do something different.
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr R and Ms A and their complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  
for example if the remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable 
redress for Mr R and Ms A. But there  isnt anything  about Mr Rs and Ms As complaint or 
circumstances that suggest the redress paid by Bank of Scotland  is not fair or reasonable. 
In this case I think Bank of Scotlands offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr R and Ms A any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank of Scotland  should  also pay back to Mr R 
and Ms A any extra interest  they paid because  of that.
Bank of Scotland should pay back to Mr R and Ms A the extra they paid each  month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank 
of Scotland should also pay Mr R and Ms A 8%* simple interest on each payment.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr R and Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I cant look at whether or not the PPI was mis-sold. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr R and Ms A any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1097554