K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc did not pay compensation  for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) directly  to her. Instead, it used the compensation to 
reduce what it considered  to be an outstanding balance on her account. 
background
PPI was sold to Ms W alongside a credit card in or around 2002. It appears that Ms W ran 
into financial  difficulties and she granted a trust deed to her creditors in or around 2007. This 
was a protected trust deed and is a form of insolvency.  The outstanding balance  of Ms Ws 
Capital One credit card was included in that trust deed. She was discharged  in or around 
2008. 
In 2018, Ms W complained to Capital One that the PPI attached to her credit card had been  
mis-sold. Capital One agreed and it upheld the complaint. It said that it had the 
compensation in Ms Ws case  should  be £433.25. However, it decided that rather  than pay 
the compensation directly to Ms W, it would  use that money to reduce a balance  it said was 
outstanding on Ms Ws credit card. This is called offsetting. 
Ms W disagreed with the way Capital One had paid compensation and she complained to 
this service. Our adjudicator considered the complaint and he thought Capital One had acted 
fairly when  it offset Ms Ws compensation against  the amount it said she owed. 
Ms W disagreed with that view. She said that once she was discharged from the protected 
trust deed,  then the debt no longer existed. She asked for an ombudsman to make  a final 
decision and so the matter has been passed  to me to do so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I am very sorry  to disappoint Ms W, but I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
At the outset, I want to reassure Ms W that Im aware that a trust deed  is different to an 
individual voluntary arrangement. In considering her complaint, Ive very carefully considered  
the rules that apply  specifically to trust deeds.
As I said above, the outcome of this complaint depends upon  what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances.  When considering what  is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable, I have  to take account of the rules  set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). DISP 3.6.4  R of the FCA Handbook (which is available  online)  requires me to take 
the following  into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
Ref: DRN12418432(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
Capital One has already  agreed that it mis-sold  PPI to Ms W. So I dont need to look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the sale. I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for 
Capital One to use the resulting PPI compensation to reduce the credit card balance  that 
Ms W says was written off after the trust deed  was discharged (or came to an end).  
First of all, Ive considered  particularly  what  the law says about protected trust deeds. In 
recent years there have been a number of cases looking at what happens to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed comes  to an end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond  [2018] UKSC  54, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom 
considered the effect of a discharged trust deed following a final distribution by the trustee. 
In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust which meant  that any unrealised  
assets were returned  to the debtor  including the PPI compensation that no one had known 
about at the time.  In other words, the Supreme Court said that the PPI compensation should  
not be paid to the trustees. It said it should be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly  v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ)  1, the Sheriff  Appeal Court  
considered whether The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS)  could offset PPI compensation 
against an outstanding balance when  a trust deed came to an end. The terms of the trust 
deed in this case meant RBS had, in effect,  agreed that the debt would be extinguished  
and it couldnt  later re-open the debt to offset  the PPI compensation (I understand RBS has 
appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
So I accept  that, unless and until the Inner  House reverses  the decision of the Sheriff Appeal 
Court, and on the assumption that the relevant terms  of the trust deed in Donnelly are 
essentially the same as those in this case, then Capital  One couldnt  successfully argue in 
court that it should be allowed to offset the compensation in Ms Ws case.   
But as I said above,  when Im deciding whats fair and reasonable, I have to consider a 
number of things   not just the relevant case law. And I also have  to consider whats fair for 
both parties. I appreciate  that Capital One cant now chase  Ms W in court for the money  that 
she owed when she entered  into the trust deed. But I can see from the evidence  Capital One 
has provided that Ms W has still borrowed over £1,600  more  than she repaid on her credit 
card. Its likely that wont now ever be repaid. 
I accept that Ms W has been discharged from the trust deed  and that the case law says 
those debts dont  exist anymore. But in reality,  Ms W has still had the benefit of over £1,600  
from Capital One that she doesnt have to pay back.   In those circumstances, I dont think it 
would be fair to tell Capital One to pay Ms Ws compensation  directly  to her. The fact that 
Ms Ws trust deed  had come to an end before this offer of PPI compensation was made 
doesnt make a difference to what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances here. I cant  
reasonably say its fair for Capital One to repay the PPI compensation directly to Ms W when 
she doesnt now need to pay back the much bigger amount she borrowed. 
So it follows  from what Ive said that I think its fair for Capital One to use the PPI 
compensation its offered to reduce the outstanding  monies owed and left unpaid  following 
the closure of Ms Ws protected  trust deed.
Ref: DRN12418433my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for Capital One (Europe) Plc to use 
Ms Ws PPI compensation to reduce the monies  owed  and left unpaid when her trust deed 
came to an end. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1241843