K821x#15Complaint
Mr H is being represented by a firm of solicitors.  Hes complaining about Best Practice  IFA 
Group Limited (Best  Practice) because he says he received unsuitable advice from its 
representatives to switch his pension benefits  to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to 
fund an unsuitable  investment. 
Background
Mr H says events started with an unsolicited telephone call about the possibility of receiving 
higher returns by transferring his pension. He says he was told there were other options that 
could offer him more and that a SIPP guaranteed higher returns. He says he was also told 
SIPP fees were low.
Following these discussions, Mr H switched benefits from a personal pension  with Friends 
Life to a SIPP with The Lifetime SIPP Company Ltd (Lifetime), which was administered by 
Hartley SAS Ltd (Hartley). The transaction history  shows Mr Hs SIPP was established on 14 
April 2012 and that £14,467 was switched into it from his Friends Life pension on 28 May 
2012. 
The SIPP history then shows £13,000  of Mr Hs money was moved  into an unregulated  
product, InvestUS  Ltd (InvestUS) on 21 June 2012. I understand this was an investment 
created for the purpose of funding a US company that planned to purchase  discounted 
housing stock with a view to refurbishing it and making a profit and that Mr H purchased 
shares in the company.
The SIPP history shows the investment  returned amounts of £6,240 in July 2013 and £1,950 
in October 2014  back into the SIPP. But after that it appears to have failed. Theres  no 
record of any further payments  into the SIPP and by September 2017, Hartley had 
essentially decided it was worthless and attributed it a value of £1 in the SIPP. It therefore 
appears Mr H has lost a large part of the money he invested.
Mr H recalls all interaction was in writing or over the telephone and that he never met 
anyone face to face. He says he was initially called by and dealt  with a Mr J of Jordan 
Financial Services (Jordan FS) and dealt with Mr J or somebody at his firm at all times. 
According to the Financial  Services  Register  (the Register),  Mr J worked for two different 
firms at the time, Jordan FS and Future  Financial IFA Group Ltd (Future Financial). Both 
were an appointed representative (AR) of Best Practice, and Mr H believes Best Practice is 
responsible for his losses.
Best Practice said it didnt hold any information for Mr H in relation to either  Jordan  FS or 
Future Financial.  If he had been  a client of these firms while they were  members of its 
network, it said it would  have records. Best Practice noted that Mr Hs representative 
provided correspondence referring  to a Mr L and Future Financial  but says this doesnt prove 
Mr H was its client. It said its received numerous  requests  for client  details connected to Mr 
L, but none have ever been found because hes never been authorised by Best Practice.  It 
said Mr L would have  been acting fraudulently at the time if he was claiming to act for Best 
Practice.
Our investigator concluded the complaint is one we can investigate and that Mr H 
complained in time. But he didnt offer an opinion on whether the complaint should be 
upheld.
Ref: DRN15899862Best Practice didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It maintained its view that Mr H 
complained too late. It said that it understands Mr H initially approached  Lifetime  on an 
execution only basis, which means  he must  have been  aware  of what  he was doing and the 
risks involved from the outset. Also, it noted  that the investigator referred to an investment 
update from October  2014, the wording  of which it felt shows Mr H should have been aware 
of the risks of the investment at that time.
Best Practice also said that the issue of whether this complaint falls within our jurisdiction is 
closely aligned to issues raised in other complaints Ive been considering recently that were  
brought by a Mr and Mrs R. It pointed  out that its made substantive submissions on these 
cases and felt we shouldnt be making a decision on whether we can consider Mr Hs 
complaint until those submissions have  been  addressed.
Mr and Mrs Rs complaints  involved  advice  that I ultimately concluded  was given by a Mr G 
at Future Financial. In summary,  Best Practice maintained  it wasnt  Mr G that advised  Mr 
and Mrs R. Instead, it said he was impersonated by someone else, a Mr L. Mr L wasnt  
authorised through Future Financial  and it didnt think it should be held responsible  for his 
actions. It also maintained that it didnt authorise its ARs to carry out this kind of business  
and so couldnt be held responsible for it anyway. It raised the following key points:
Issue One: whether Mr G was involved in providing regulated financial services
Mr G said he didnt provide pension or investment advice and theres no evidence  to 
show he did. Future Financial didnt write any business as an AR of Best Practice 
and Best Practice didnt pay any commission to Mr G. Further,  Future Financial only 
appointed two approved persons during  the period in which it was an AR. These 
were Mr J (who  was permitted to give investment  advice)  and Mr G (whose  
permissions were  limited to advising on non-investment protection  and general 
insurance). Mr L was never an employee of Future Financial. For Mr G to have 
carried out the regulated activities being  complained about, he would have been 
acting contrary to his permissions.
Theres insufficient evidence to reasonably conclude  Mr G was involved in providing 
regulated financial  services, theres  no evidence he was associated  with the advice 
on the form that contained his name,  and theres  no evidence to suggest he was 
involved in a pattern  of behaviour  that ran contrary to regulatory requirements.
I should decline jurisdiction on the grounds  that Mr G didnt undertake  the regulated 
activities being complained about.
Issue Two: Best Practice didnt accept responsibility for any of the business said to 
have been performed  by Future  Financial  in any event.
The AR agreement, when  read in the context of the case of Anderson v Sense 
Network, was such that Best Practice only took responsibility for business of which it 
was notified and could monitor. Accordingly, it cant be held liable for the acts or 
omissions of Future Financial under  section  39 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act (2000) (FSMA).
In the Anderson v Sense case,  when  determining  what business the principal is 
accepting responsibility for as opposed to how that business  is to be conducted, the 
Ref: DRN15899863court made it clear the AR agreement must be read in context. Its relevant to 
consider the specific  terms  of the agreement rather than referring to the principals 
own permissions (as I seem to have  done).  Given  the onerous  consequences section 
39 places on the principal, it must be applied with precision and not using an 
excessively broad brush.
In the Anderson v Sense case,  the AR agreement  required business to be written 
through a company agency. The judge determined this restriction was part of what  
business the principal accepted responsibility for and not on how that business  was 
carried out.
Understanding why writing business through a company agency was a restriction on 
what business the principal was accepting  responsibility for, as opposed to how that 
business was to be conducted,  required a consideration of the relevant clause in the 
AR agreement in context. This ostensibly  also required an understanding of the 
purpose of the clause.  The purpose of requiring business to be written through  a 
company agency was that it allowed the principal to limit the products that could be 
sold and to monitor the same. This was necessary because  the principal had no 
effective means of monitoring the AR, such that it wouldnt take responsibility for 
business not correctly channelled through a company agency. If the AR had 
complied with this requirement, the principal wouldnt have approved advice for the 
consumers to pay into a Ponzi scheme. So it makes sense that the judge  concluded  
the principal hadnt  accepted responsibility for business that was written  without its 
knowledge.
In this case, theres no provision in the AR agreement authorising either Future  
Financial or its employees to undertake unauthorised activities on behalf  of Best 
Practice, either expressly or by inference. Further, Future  Financials business  was 
subject to compliance with clauses 6.1 (requirement for notice)  and 6.17 
(requirement to comply with the compliance manual and procedures). Understanding 
the context of these  clauses  is vital to understanding why they restrict the business 
Best Practice accepted  responsibility for.
Clause 6.1 says:
 
The Appointed Representative shall on behalf of the Principal undertake  such 
of the following activities as the Principal  may require and for which  the 
Principal accepts responsibility PROVIDED ALWAYS the Business is notified 
to the Principal within 30 days of the date of sale and falls within  the 
categories for which the Principal has authorisation
Clause 6.17 says:
The Appointed Representative is not employed  by the Principal  but hereby 
undertakes to run its Business in accordance  with the reasonable principles 
laid down by the Principal from time to time. In particular:
a)To comply with such principles arising after the Commencement Date,  
and
The Appointed Representative shall be obliged to comply and adhere to the 
Compliance Manual,  Procedures Manual, BPIFA Updates and the rules in 
Ref: DRN15899864force from time to time affecting such Compliance  Manual  and Procedures 
Manual.
In the Anderson v Sense case,  the judge  understood the purpose of writing business 
through a company agency was to allow the principal to control what  the AR was 
doing on its behalf. Similarly, the purpose of the requirements in clause 6.1 above  
(that the principal  was notified of any business within  30 days and that any business 
fell within  the categories for which Best Practice itself had authorisation) was to 
provide a mechanism  whereby Best Practice would be able to monitor, and thereby 
exert control over, the business it was accepting responsibility for.
Clause 6.17 also required  the AR to follow the compliance manual and procedures.  
This is in line with a similar clause in the AR agreement in the Anderson  v Sense 
case. The purpose of this was again to ensure  the business Best Practice authorised 
Future Financial to carry out was tightly restricted to what  it could monitor,  control 
and approve.
Any advice given  in respect of arranging  the SIPP  would have been  regarded as 
personal pension  transfer business  and subject to the pre-approval  process outlined 
in Best Practices compliance  manual.  This would have required Future Financial  to 
refer the proposition to Best Practices compliance team.  Without specific  approval 
and appropriate  compliance checks,  Future  Financial wouldnt have been authorised 
to complete the business. While Best Practice isnt able to produce  the version of its 
pre-approval process that would have applied in 2012, it has provided  a copy of the 
latest iteration  dated September 2019.
Its alleged the investments  made  within the SIPP were UCIS. It provided a copy  of a 
section of the compliance manual  entitled  Unregulated Collectives. The version  
provided is dated November 2014  as Best Practice doesnt have an earlier  version. 
This says:
Whilst Best Practice currently has a Group policy relative to the use of 
unregulated collectives that effectively  prohibits their sale without  the express 
written permission of the Compliance Director, it is acknowledged that such 
products may be deemed attractive  to non-retail clients.  As a result, the 
following procedures must be applied to their sale.
Sales Procedure
The first stage in the process is to request written approval for the use of 
unregulated collective schemes  as part of a client recommendation / advice 
process. Such approval will only be granted where  it can be demonstrated  
that the client is not a retail client under the definition of COBs 3.5.3 and 
where the adviser has demonstrated a sufficient  level of product 
understanding (via a specific knowledge  assessment  and documented CPD). 
The Directors approval will involve the completion  of the Approval Checklist  
to ensure consistency in the approach and views applied.
This shows Future Financial was prohibited  from providing advice  to invest  in UCIS 
products without first requesting written  approval from the compliance director.  Along 
with its pre-approval process,  this would have allowed Best Practice  to restrict the 
advice Future  Financial could give in relation to the investments in the SIPP.  These 
Ref: DRN15899865are restrictions on what  business Future Financial was authorised for as opposed to 
restrictions on how that business was to be conducted.
I then issued my provisional decision explaining  why I thought we could consider this 
complaint and it should be upheld.  An extract  is attached and forms part of this decision. Mr 
Hs representative told us he accepted  my provisional decision and had no further points to 
make. Best Practice contacted us to say it noted  my intention to uphold  the complaint and 
said it had nothing meaningful to add. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr H accepts my decision, Best Practice IFA Group Limited must pay him compensation 
calculated using the method set out above.  It should  provide Mr H with details of its 
calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN15899866Extract from provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings  - Jurisdiction
Throughout this decision, Ive referred to the rules I must follow in assessing all aspects of this 
complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules, published  as part of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook.
In considering this case, the usual jurisdiction tests apply:
Did the actions being  complained about take place when Future Financial  was an AR of 
the principal?
Do we have territorial jurisdiction?
Is the complainant  eligible?
In this case, Im satisfied  these tests are met. Mr H is an eligible  complainant, we have territorial 
jurisdiction and Jordan FS and Future Financial were ARs of Best Practice at the time of the acts 
complained about. Mr Hs SIPP invested into InvestUS  on 21 June 2012.  According  to the Register,  
Future Financial  was an AR of Best Practice until 26 June 2012  and Jordan FS until December 2012.
There are other issues  I also need to consider, in particular:
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
Was the complaint  made in time?
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
In considering this issue, Ive relied on the following key pieces of evidence:
The AR agreement between Best Practice  and Future Financial dated 13 June 2011.
A SIPP application  for Mr H dated 24 October  2011.  This records his adviser as Jordan 
Financial.
A letter from Lifetime to Mr H dated 21 November  2011,  which said:
Application for The Lifetime SIPP
Thank you for your application to establish a Lifetime SIPP.
Unfortunately we do not accept schemes on an execution only basis and all our new 
schemes must come via an ESA regulated Individual  or Company  who has agreed to 
our Terms of Business.
I therefore  return the forms to you and have indicated where your adviser needs to be 
appointed. These can then be resubmitted to us via your appointed adviser. 
If your adviser  has not dealt with us before then please arrange for them to contact 
me, [email address]  and I will issue them with our Terms  of Business.
A Lifetime  form entitled New  SIPP Checklist completed in connection  with a SIPP  
application from Mr H that was dated 24 October 2011 and received  on 13 January 2012. 
This records the introducer as Jordan FS and quotes its Financial  Services Authority  (FSA, 
now FCA)  reference  number. It also includes  Mr Js email address.
A Lifetime  form entitled Money Laundering  Checklist connected to Mr Hs investment, which 
was recorded by Lifetime as passed on 16 January 2012. This records the name  of the 
Ref: DRN15899867introducer as Jordan Financial and quotes its FSA reference number. But it also says 
connected to Future Financial Best Practice .
A Lifetime  New SIPP Checklist completed in connection with an application received on 19 
March 2012. This records the IFA as Future Financial and quotes its FSA reference number.
A letter from Lifetime to Mr L at Future  Financial (sent to Future Financials address) dated 23 
March 2012, which says:
SIPP Re [Mr H]
I write further to the above named client. I have been passed the SIPP application  in 
respect of [Mr H]. In order for us to sign off the business we will require the following;
The RBS Mandate needs to be signed by the client where marked on page 2 
of the form.
Require confirmation of the SIPP status on page  2 of the SIPP application  
form.
I have returned both documents for you to go through with the client.  If you could 
please return  these as soon  as possible we can then sign off the business  & process  
accordingly.
I do trust that this is of satisfaction.  If you have any queries please  do not hesitate to 
contact us.
A Lifetime  New SIPP Checklist completed in connection with an updated  application 
received on 12 April 2012. This records the independent financial adviser (IFA) as Future 
Financial and quotes its FSA reference number. It also records that Future Financial was an 
AR of Best Practice.
An undated welcome letter from Hartley to Mr H confirming receipt  of the documentation 
required to process his SIPP  application.  This includes the following paragraph:
Within your application  for The Lifetime SIPP, you have, requested to transfer in 
benefits from another pension  arrangement.  You have the option to cancel that 
request within  30 days from the date of this letter, and should  you wish to take that 
option you should complete  the enclosed cancelation notice,  and return it to the 
address shown above.  However,  before  you take any action, we strongly recommend  
that you consult Future Financial for further independent advice.
An email from Hartley to Mr L dated 16 April 2012, which says:
The Lifetime  SIPP Re: [Mr H]
Thank you for the application for the above client which  has now been received.
I confirm the Scheme has been established  as a Cash Plus SIPP. An invoice for our 
initial charges is attached for your information which I will settle from the fund upon 
receipt of the funds unless I hear from you to the contrary.
Please also find attached a copy of the welcome  pack that has been issued directly  to 
the client.
The administrator who will be responsible for the SIPP will be myself [email  address] 
and I will be working on the processing  of the application.
Ref: DRN15899868The reference  number  of the scheme is [XXXXX]  and this should be quoted in all 
correspondence
An email from Lifetime to Mr G dated 25 May 2012 and entitled  TV updates,  which says:
Sorry no one has got back to you regarding these updates.
I have personally chased  them for you and can advise;-
. . . .
[Mr H] - The transfer payment and letter was sent by Friends life on Monday, this can 
take up to 5 working days. I have checked the bank account online and the monies 
have not yet been received.
An email exchange between Lifetime and Mr K (using a Project  Kudos Group email address) 
dated 21 June 2012, in which Mr K requested and was sent the share agreements for Mr Hs 
investment. Mr L was copied into this exchange.
An email from Lifetime to Mr K (and copied to Mr L) dated 22 June 2012,  which begins:
Please find enclosed the duly countersigned application forms  for [Mr H[
An email from Lifetime to Mr L and Mr K dated 2 July 2012,  which says:
As discussed last week, when a client invests in the InvestUS and Diamond products 
we require the signed  statement for Certified  High Net Worth and Self Certified 
Sophisticated Investor forms to accompany the documentation.
[Another Lifetime employee] has now brought to my attention that we now also 
require a copy  of the know your client.
Therefore we need the following clients to complete the forms:
[Mr H]
An email from Lifetime to Mr G dated 25 July 2012, which  says:
Sorry no one has got back to you regarding these updates.
I have personally chased  them for you and can advise;-
[Mr H] - The transfer payment and letter was sent by Friends life on Monday, this can 
take up to 5 working days. I have checked the bank account online and the monies 
have not yet been received.
A letter from Hartley to Mr H dated 30 July 2018, which appears to have been sent in 
response to an enquiry from Best Practice in connection  with the complaint and says:
In response to [Best Practices] enquiry, I can advise that we received an application 
from Jordan Financial on 13/01/2012 and it was allocated  SIPP number [XXXXX]. 
This application appears not to have proceeded and no records  are held on our 
systems for this number.  A second application was received from Future Financial on 
19/03/2012 and allocated SIPP number [XXXXX]. This application proceeded and 
your SIPP established.
Ref: DRN15899869I can also confirm  that The Lifetime SIPP Company Ltd (In Administration) did not 
accept any non-IFA advised new business, as per our letter to you dated  21st 
November 2011.
If the parties havent  seen any of this documentation, they can contact the investigator to request 
copies.
The issue I must address  in deciding whether we can consider the merits of this complaint is whether 
Best Practice  can be held responsible  for the alleged actions of its ARs, Jordan  FS and Future 
Financial. Ive considered  all the evidence  to decide whether this is a complaint  we can look at. We 
dont have jurisdiction to consider  all complaints about ARs. Our jurisdiction depends  on the facts of 
the case  and we have  to make findings on the facts that are material to jurisdiction.
Under DISP 2.3.1, we can only consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction  if it relates to:
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more  of the listed activities, which  includes 
regulated activities;  or
any ancillary activities carried on by a firm in connection with those  activities.
Further, DISP 2.3.3  says:
Complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which  the firm 
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firm... has accepted  responsibility).
So the issue  of whether  Best Practice (the principal firm) is responsible for the alleged  actions of 
Jordan FS and/or Future Financial (its ARs) involves a three  stage test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary thereto; and 
step 3 - consider whether the principal  firm was responsible for those activities by reason  of 
section 39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA),  agency or vicarious 
liability.  
step 1  what  are the specific acts being complained about?
Mr Hs complaint to Best Practice was that he received  unsuitable advice  from its representatives, 
Jordan FS and Future Financial, to switch his pension benefits to a SIPP to fund the unregulated 
InvestUS investment.
step 2  are the acts being complained about regulated  activities  or ancillary to regulated activities?
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme, which includes 
SIPPs, are specified as investments (article 82). So are shares (article  76). Advising on the merits  of 
buying or selling these  investments is a specified activity (article 53). So is arranging  deals in 
investments (article 25), and agreeing to advise on investments or arrange deals in investments 
(article 64).
 
From the information provided,  it appears Mr H bought  shares  in InvestUS.  By either advising him on 
these types of investment and/or helping  him arrange them, Jordan FS or Future Financial would  
have been carrying out a regulated activity.
Im also conscious the investments took place within Mr Hs SIPP and was established with money  
transferred from another  pension.  Rights under a personal pension constitute a specified investment  
in the same way that shares is a specified investment. So advising on and/or  arranging for Mr H to 
Ref: DRN158998610transfer pension arrangements to a SIPP and then placing investments within  that SIPP involved 
giving advice on and/or making  arrangements for the rights under  a pension. So in this case, activities 
involving the unregulated investment didnt  only involve that investment. They were also activities 
involving the rights in the SIPP.
I think  this point was established in the case of Burns v FCA (2018), in which the judge said:
244. Article  82 (2) of the RAO provides that "Rights under a personal pension  scheme" is a 
specified investment. "Personal pension scheme"  is defined by Article 3 of the RAO  as:
"a scheme or arrangement which is not an occupational scheme or a stakeholder pension 
scheme and which is comprised in one or more instruments or agreements, having  or 
capable of having effect so as to provide benefits  to or in respect of people 
(a) on retirement,
(b) on having reached a particular age, or
(c) on termination of service  in an employment"
245. A SIPP,  the essential  characteristics of which  we describe  at [120] above,  clearly falls 
within the scope of this definition  and therefore the rights  that the beneficiary of a SIPP  has 
under the trust arrangements  that establish the SIPP constitute a "specified investment".
246. Those  rights are also a "security"  for the purposes  of the RAO. Article 3 of the RAO 
defines "security"  as "an investment of the kind specified by any of Articles 76 to 82" of the 
RAO. The investments  that fall within the scope of that definition are, generally speaking,  
shares, debentures, government securities, interests in securities and units  in a collective  
investment scheme as well as rights under a pension scheme which  falls within  the scope of 
Article 82. It is worth mentioning at this point that in relation to collective investment  schemes, 
which are often similar in structure  to SIPPs, that "units" are defined  as "the rights or interests 
(however described) of the participants in a collective  investment scheme":  see s 237 (2) 
FSMA. The significance  of these rights being  a "security"  will become apparent when we 
examine the terms  of COBS 9.2.1 R.
247. The Authority has given guidance as to the scope of its regulation of rights in a personal  
pension scheme in that part of its Handbook known  as PERG. It does so in the form of 
questions and answers and the giving  of examples  as to the type of activity  which  is covered.
248. PERG 12.3 gives guidance as to what in the Authoritys view constitute  rights under  a 
personal pension scheme that are specified investments and securities in the following terms:
"Q16. What are the rights  under a personal pension scheme that are specified  investments 
and securities?
These are all the rights  that membership of the scheme confers on a member.  This may vary 
(for example, where the scheme is a SIPP)  but is likely  to include some or all of the following 
rights:
to make payments to the scheme;
to withdraw sums  from the scheme in certain circumstances;
to transfer value to another  pension  scheme;
to receive  benefits arising  from the capital value of or income derived from particular 
assets or from the performance of a unitised fund;
to place certain  types of property (for example,  commercial property)  in the scheme;
to instruct the operator  which assets to buy or sell for the purposes of the scheme;
to instruct the operator  to switch  funds from one managed or unitised  fund to another;
to appoint  a person  to manage the assets or to give instructions to the operator  about 
which assets  to buy or sell on behalf of the member; and
to instruct the operator  to borrow money to purchase assets  (for example, to take out 
a mortgage on a commercial  property)."
249. We accept the list set out above as an accurate, but not necessarily  exhaustive, 
description of the principal rights arising under a personal  pension scheme, such  as a SIPP, 
Ref: DRN158998611which constitute "rights"  for the purposes of Article  82 of the RAO. In particular, we note the 
right to receive benefits  arising from the capital value  of or income derived  from particular  
assets, regardless of the nature of those assets and, in particular, whether  or not the assets 
are themselves specified  investments for the purposes of the RAO. Once again, we draw the 
analogy with units in a collective investment  scheme;  one of the rights conferred by a unit in a 
collective investment  scheme  is the right to realise  the unit by reference  to the value of the 
underlying assets of the scheme.
250. The consequence  of rights under a SIPP being a specified  investment is that they are 
subject to regulation by the Authority  if an authorised person conducts  any of the regulated 
activities specified by the RAO in relation to them. As the Authority correctly identifies in 
PERG 12.3 (in its answer to its Question 15), that includes the regulated activities of dealing  
in investments as principal or agent, arranging  deals in investments, or advising on 
investments, all of which are activities specified as regulated  activities for the purposes 
of FSMA by virtue  of Articles  14 , 21 , 25 and 53 of the RAO respectively.
251. Continuing the analogy with collective  investment schemes,  it is also worth noting that 
pursuant to Article 52 (b) of the RAO , establishing, operating or winding up a personal 
pension scheme is a specified activity for the purposes of FSMA and is therefore  a regulated 
activity. This mirrors the provisions of Article 51ZE of the RAO  which provides that 
establishing, operating or winding up a collective investment scheme  is a specified activity. 
This analogy,  as well as those described  at [246] and [249] above lead us to conclude that 
Parliament intended the regulatory regime  to be applied to specified  activities relating to 
SIPPs to apply in the same  way as it does to activities in relation to specified  activities 
relating to collective investment schemes.
252. Turning  now to how the regulated activities  of dealing, arranging  and advising  can apply 
to rights in a SIPP, as the Authority states in PERG 12.3 (in its answer to its Question 17), 
among other things a member will be dealing  in rights  in the scheme when  he acquires them  
by joining the scheme, makes payments into the scheme or contributes assets to the scheme 
and the operator of the scheme will be dealing in investments when he grants rights to the 
member under the scheme. When an IFA on its customers  behalf assists the customer with 
establishing the scheme with a SIPP  provider  the IFA is likely to be arranging deals  in 
investments.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the alleged  activities complained about fall within  our 
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions  in carrying  on regulated activities of advising on and 
arranging pensions and investments.
The issue of who carried out these activities is not straightforward.  But from the evidence  available, it 
seems clear Mr Hs initial  application was dated 24 October  2011. Lifetimes letter of 21 November  
2011 appears  to indicate this was because it believe the application had been made on an execution-
only basis.
It seems strange the application was rejected for this reason as it does record Jordan FS as Mr Hs 
IFA. Possible  explanations for this are either that Lifetime misread  the application or that Jordan FSs 
details were added later before the application was resubmitted in January 2012. According to 
Hartley, that application didnt proceed either but the reasons for this arent clear. But whatever 
happened to it, I think the evidence  supports what Hartley has said that the application was 
resubmitted in March 2012.  That recorded Future Financial as the IFA and its this application that 
was finally accepted and led to Mr Hs SIPP being established.
In my view,  this is compelling evidence that Future  Financial was engaged in the regulated activity  of 
arranging Mr Hs SIPP  and pension switch. Mr H says he thought  he was dealing with Mr J of Jordan 
FS and people  from his company. But I dont think thats inconsistent with the conclusion  Ive reached.  
The earlier application appears  to show he originally dealt with Jordan FS and, as Mr J worked for 
Ref: DRN158998612both ARs, I find it quite conceivable that he later switched  to dealing with Future  Financial without 
actually realising that.
The evidence  suggests there were a number of individuals involved in the overall  transaction involving  
Mr Hs SIPP and investment. As well as Mr J, who Mr H specifically recalls speaking  to, the evidence 
from the time indicates others were also involved. These include Mr G  to whom Lifetime wrote  about 
the pension switch,  Mr L and Mr K. Its possible Mr H also spoke to some or all of these people as he 
says he spoke  to others who he believed were also working for Jordan  FS. 
Of these individuals,  the Register records that Mr J worked for both Jordan  FS and Future Financial  
as Ive already noted. It also records that Mr G worked  for Future Financial  and I think Lifetimes email 
to him on 2 July 2012 is further compelling  evidence of Future Financials involvement in arranging 
the SIPP  and pension switch.
The status  of Mr L and Mr K is less clear. From information obtained in connection with recent 
complaints about Best Practice that Ive decided, its my understanding Mr K effectively worked  as Mr 
Ls assistant.  So I think its Mr Ls status thats most relevant here. 
According to the Register, Mr L didnt hold a regulated  role with Future Financial. And I note Mr K (his 
assistant) communicated with Lifetime about Mr Hs investment in June  2012 from another  firm called  
Project Kudos Group. This was an unregulated business and I think  its likely this was who Mr L was 
representing when carrying out any activities in connection with the investment. But the fact Mr L 
didnt hold a regulated role with Future Financial  doesnt mean he didnt  represent it in some capacity. 
I think  the fact Lifetime wrote to him at Future Financials address on 23 March  2012 in connection 
with the SIPP application is compelling evidence  that he did.
Whatever the status and role of Mr L, I think the evidence  provided by Hartley, including the final 
application that led to the SIPP being established, is clear Future Financial  was at least responsible  
for arranging  the SIPP and pension  switch. This is certainly what  Hartley  thought and I believe that 
was a reasonable  conclusion based on the information  received  by Lifetime at the time of Mr Hs 
application.
Incidentally, I note Best Practice has previously  expressed the view that Mr L impersonated staff at 
Future Financial  without  their knowledge to arrange this type of transaction. But it hasnt provided 
comment from Mr J or Mr G on this point or other evidence to support its view.  Further, I think  
Lifetimes email to Mr G on 2 July 2012 shows  he knew what was going  on and very much  goes 
against Best Practices interpretation of events.
On balance, Im satisfied  Future Financial was involved in arranging Mr Hs SIPP and Ive no reason 
to doubt his recollection that he at least dealt with Mr J of that firm directly. Mr H also says he was 
advised on switching  his pension to the SIPP and I think thats  likely to have been the case  and that 
Future Financial  was ultimately responsible for that advice also.  
The regulated activity  of advising on investments is defined in article 53 of the RAO  as follows:
Advising a person  is a specified kind of activity if the advice is 
a)given to the person in his capacity  as an investor or potential investor,  or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
b)advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent) -
(i)buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which  is a 
security or a contractually based investment, or
(ii)exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Ref: DRN158998613In terms of the first part of the definition, Im satisfied  Mr H was an investor  or potential investor. 
Turning to the second  part, I find it unlikely  he would  have agreed to switch  his entire pension savings 
to a SIPP  without having received advice  on the merits of doing so. Mr H says Mr Js approach was 
unsolicited and theres  nothing to indicate he was looking to change  his pension  arrangements until 
he was contacted. Ive also seen nothing to suggest he was a particularly experienced or 
knowledgeable investor who would have opted to do this off his own back. Mr H says he was told a 
SIPP had low fees and would provide higher  returns and, in the circumstances, I think  he would have 
needed to have been persuaded of the merits of what was being proposed before he agreed to it.
Best Practice  appears  to view Lifetimes rejection  of Mr Hs original  SIPP application  as evidence it 
was made on an execution-only basis. While it appears no adviser details  were recorded on the 
application, this doesnt in itself prove an adviser wasnt involved in making the arrangements or 
advising on them. For the reasons Ive explained above, I think its unlikely Mr H decided  to make 
these changes  to his arrangements on his own.
It may have been that Mr J was originally representing Jordan FS when he first contacted  Mr H. But 
by the time the SIPP application that proceeded had been submitted, I think its clear Future Financial  
had taken over. I cant be sure about exactly when  that happened, but I think its likely advice on the 
merits of what  he was doing  was given throughout the transaction, including  by Future Financial. 
Even if it could be shown Im wrong  about this and that all advice  was given by Jordan  FS before 
Future Financial  took over arranging the SIPP, I dont think its likely this would ultimately  change the 
outcome of the complaint.  Jordan FS was also an AR of Best Practice and its activities would  
presumably have been subject to similar terms and restrictions and, for reasons  Ill explain later in this 
decision, Best Practice would be equally liable in that situation as well. 
The activities  of advising  on and arranging pensions and investments are both regulated activities that 
fall within our jurisdiction as set out in DISP 2.3.1. I think the evidence shows Future Financial carried  
out both of these activities in respect of switching Mr Hs pension benefits  to the SIPP. 
step 3  is the principal  firm responsible for these regulated activities by reason of section 39 of 
FSMA, agency  or vicarious liability?
As Ive explained, I think the evidence  is clear  that Future Financial was involved in arranging Mr Hs 
SIPP. And I think its also more likely than not that it also advised  him on this. Both were regulated 
activities and I need to decide whether Best Practice, as Future  Financials principal, is responsible  for 
those acts as if they were  its own.
DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility). 
So a principal  is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to the 
business it has accepted responsibility  for.
On the subject of ARs, at the relevant time, section 39 of FSMA said:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which -
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies  with such requirements as may be prescribed,  and
Ref: DRN158998614(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.  (my emphasis)
So, under section  39, the principal is required  to accept responsibly for that business , which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description. However, the case  of Anderson  v Sense 
Network (2018) and subsequent  appeal judgement make it clear the words  part of in section 39 
allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the generic business  of a prescribed 
description. In other words,  Best Practice was entitled to appoint Future Financial  as an AR and limit 
the scope of the regulated activities it could carry out and that it would be responsible for. 
Further clarification on this point was provided by the appeal judgement in the Anderson v Sense 
case, which  set out that only restrictions on what  generic business could  be conducted would  limit 
the principals  responsibility. In contrast,  restrictions on how that business is to be conducted dont 
limit a principals  responsibility.  In other words, a principal cant  avoid responsibility  for activities it 
authorised an AR to carry out just because those activities werent carried out in the way it wanted 
them to be. 
In terms of this complaint  against Best Practice, the above means  I can consider it if the acts being 
complained about include business for which it accepted responsibility.
The AR agreement set out the terms of the arrangement between Future Financial and Best Practice. 
Section 2 says:
APPOINTMENT
2.1 The Principal  warrants for the purposes of the Act, it is an Authorised Person and as such 
appoints the Appointed Representative to be an Appointed  Representative  of the Principal in 
accordance with the purposes  set out in clause 6.1 of this Agreement  (but for no other 
purpose).
In this section, Best Practice is the principal, Future Financial is the appointed representative, the Act 
refers to FSMA, and the term appointed representative is defined as:
a person, firm or company  who is for the purposes of the FSA Rules, a person authorised to 
be a representative of the Principal and/or financial adviser for the purposes of section 39 of 
Part Three  of the Act. 
The remaining relevant sections of the agreement say:
THE APPOINTED  REPRESENTATIVES OBLIGATIONS
6.1 The Appointed  Representative  shall on behalf of the Principal undertake such  of the 
following activities as the Principal may require and for which the Principal accepts 
responsibility PROVIDED ALWAYS  the Business  is notified to the Principal within 30 days  of 
the date of sale and falls within  the categories for which the Principal has authorisation under  
the FSA Rules and the act as notified to the Appointed Representative by the Principal  from 
time to time, namely:-
6.1.1 seek Clients for investment business on behalf of the Principal, advise Clients  
about entering  into investment agreements on behalf  of the Principal,  sell 
Ref: DRN158998615investments other than real property investments and time shares, exercise rights 
conferred by an investment (whether  issued by the Principal or connected persons  or 
not).
6.1.2 seek Clients and undertake to advise Clients on all such other aspects  of non 
investment business, private health cover  and medical benefits, mortgage advice, 
insurance, pension, trusts, tax advice, financial planning, term assurance,  long term 
care plans or any other business as the Principal may from time to time require  or 
permit, but at all times in accordance with any restrictions or prohibitions as the third 
party product provider and/or Principal  shall impose, and as the Principal shall deem  
fit (and the Appointed Representative agrees to accept such restrictions and 
prohibitions).
. . . .
6.3 The Appointed  Representative  shall act and conduct itself and ensure all Financial 
Advisers engaged or employed by it shall act and conduct  themselves generally so as to 
comply fully with the requirements of all statutes  including  but not limited to any requirements 
of the Act and the Money Laundering Regulations, and shall at all times satisfy the obligations  
to retain their status as approved persons  for the purposes of the Act. Further the Appointed 
Representative agrees  to comply with such of the FSA Rules as are relevant to its activities 
and those of its Financial  Advisers.
6.4 The Appointed  Representative  shall devote such of its time, attention and abilities to the 
Principals Business as may be necessary for the proper exercise of its obligations and in 
particular in carrying  out its responsibilities pursuant to the Agreement it MUST NOT;
6.4,1 undertake any services for the Principal  not listed in clause 6.1 of this 
Agreement and then only on behalf of the Principal  and then only as its Appointed 
Representative on the terms of clause 6 in all its subsections;
6.4.1 undertake Business other than on the terms of the product  provider and/or 
Principal (and if there is a conflict, report that conflict to the Principal);
6.4.2 undertake investment Business falling outside  categories  the authorisation of 
the Principal under  FSA Rules and the Act as notified to the Appointed 
Representative by the Principal  from time to time.
. . . .
6.6 The Appointed  Representative  shall ensure that all its Financial  Advisers who carry  out 
the Business shall be allocated an individual competence  plan which  complies with the 
training and development schemes of the Principal and accords with all legal and regulatory 
requirements of the business in which  the Financial  Adviser  is active.
. . . .
6.17 The Appointed Representative is not employed  by the Principal  but hereby  undertakes 
to run its Business in accordance with the reasonable principles laid down by the Principal 
from time to time. In particular:-
(a) to comply with such  principles arising  after the Commencement Date, and
(b) the Appointed Representative shall be obliged to comply and adhere to the 
Compliance Manual, Procedures Manual, BPIFA Updates and the rules in force  from 
tune to time affecting such Compliance Manual and Procedures  Manual.
Ref: DRN158998616Its the AR agreement that determines  the basis of the business Best Practice was accepting  
responsibility for. To use the terminology in the Anderson v Sense case, this represents the starting 
point for determining what business Best Practice accepted responsibility  for. My interpretation  of this 
document is that Future Financial, as an AR of Best Practice, was essentially  permitted to carry out 
the activities  Best Practice was itself authorised for. According to the Financial Services Register,  
Best Practice  was authorised to deal with investments and pensions,  including pension transfers. 
The only restriction  I can see to this permission  is that Future  Financial was expressly not permitted to 
deal in real property investments and time shares. Im not currently aware the unregulated 
investments used by Mr H within his SIPP fell into either of these  categories but if Best Practice thinks  
otherwise, it should confirm  that and provide evidence in response  to this provisional  decision. But 
even if it were established that any of the investments fell into these  categories, I dont think that 
would necessarily affect the outcome of his complaint given the investments were made via the SIPP.
I note Mr L wasnt authorised for any regulated activity by Best Practice  and Mr G wasnt personally 
authorised to give investment advice. But Mr J was and that means  Future Financial as an entity was 
also authorised for investment advice.  The AR agreement was between  Future Financial and Best 
Practice. The manner  in which the business set out in that agreement was conducted (the how) was a 
matter between  those two parties. The fact a regulated activity might not have been conducted in the 
manner Best Practice had envisaged  because it wasnt carried out by the correct  individual - 
wouldnt be sufficient for it to avoid  responsibility in my view.
In my view,  the other requirements Best Practices representative has referred to also relate to how 
the business it accepted responsibility for was carried  rather than what business it accepted 
responsibility for.
The judge in the Anderson v Sense case considered the terms  of the AR agreement carefully,  as Ive 
done here, and concluded the requirement for the AR to put business through  a company agency was 
an effective  restriction on what business the principal accepted responsibility  for rather on how that 
was done. Best Practice didnt  include  the same restriction in its agreement with Future Financial. But 
its representative instead  seems to be arguing  this agreement, when considered in the context of the 
compliance manual, included  other restrictions that are comparable and equally effective in limiting 
liability.
My interpretation of clause 6.1 of the agreement is that Best Practice  accepted responsibility for 
business that falls within the categories for which  it was authorised by the regulator, provided  Best 
Practice was notified about that business within 30 days. In my view, this requirement isnt 
comparable to the restrictions  in the Anderson v Sense case. 
In itself, this clause didnt explicitly restrict the choice of product providers available to Future 
Financial in the same way. Further, a general  requirement for notification  after business was written  
couldnt realistically be used  to restrict its activities in that way anyway because  it didnt give the AR 
certainty at the point  of sale in the same way that a list of approved product providers would have.  
As outlined  in section 6.17, I appreciate the agreement also required Future Financial  to follow  Best 
Practices compliance manual and I can confirm Ive considered it in that context. Best Practices 
representative has previously explained  the compliance  manual would  have required Future Financial 
to obtain pre-approval for any advice  given to Mr H because  it involved transferring  his pension and 
making unregulated investments.
Before going any further, I have to say Best Practices cause isnt helped because it hasnt  been able 
to provide the relevant  sections of the compliance manual from the time. It has provided versions from 
several years later but its very difficult to conclude  effective restrictions on the business  it accepted 
responsibility for were  in place at the time without sight of the relevant documentation, even if I were  
satisfied restrictions in this format would have the effect of limiting liability. 
Ref: DRN158998617I think  its also worth  noting that the section of the compliance manual provided covering unregulated 
collectives (UCIS) sets out the process for non-retail clients, which  I dont think  is a description that 
would have applied  to Mr H. In terms of retail clients, the introductory section seems to suggest  the 
position was that the use of UCIS wasnt allowed  without permission from the compliance director.
But even if I were  to base  my assessment  on the wording in the more  recent versions of the 
compliance manual provided, I still dont think the pre-approval process described  is comparable to 
the controls described in the Anderson v Sense case. Theres  nothing  that directly restricted  the 
product providers  available to ARs. Instead, it appears Best Practice  preferred  to consider each 
proposition on its own merits, including  for UCIS that could be permitted with approval from the 
compliance director. 
In the original  Anderson v Sense case, the judge said:
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered  [my 
emphasis], does not mean that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the 
relevant "business"  for which  responsibility is taken.
I think  the pre-approval  process  described  in the compliance manual falls into the category of certain 
other duties described above. In my view,  the judge was clear that the fact such duties may not have 
been completed isnt sufficient for a principal to avoid  responsibility for business it had otherwise 
accepted responsibility for. I think  this supports the conclusion Im reaching that the pre-approval 
process related to how business was conducted  rather than the nature of the business  Best Practice  
was accepting responsibility  for.
It remains my interpretation that the AR agreement, when considered in the context of the compliance 
manual, permitted Future Financial to advise  on investments  and pensions,  including UCIS. This is 
the business Best Practice accepted responsibility for (the what).  I dont think a clause requiring Best 
Practice to be notified of any business written within 30 days  is an effective restriction thats 
comparable with the requirement  to use a selection of pre-approved product providers identified in the 
Anderson v Sense case.
I appreciate Best Practice wanted to retain some control over the activities of Future Financial, 
although its difficult to say exactly what these were without documentation  from the time. But either 
way, I think  the measures  identified would more correctly  be described as restrictions on how the 
business it was accepting responsibility for was carried out. Such restrictions dont have the effect of 
limiting a principals  liability as established in the Anderson v Sense case. 
Was the complaint made in time?
In reaching a conclusion on this issue, Ive relied on additional evidence, which  includes:
An investor update dated 25 July 2013.
An investor update dated 1 October 2014.
A SIPP summary and report dated 21 September 2017, showing  Mr Hs SIPP was valued at 
£14,199. This consisted  of the InvestUS investment, which was valued  at £7,540 and the 
remainder in cash.
A letter from Lifetime to Mr H dated 21 September 2017, which says:
Ref: DRN158998618Ref: [XXXXX] - Legal  Force request
Dear Mr H
The Lifetime SIPP re [Mr H] - Subject Access Request
We have  received a request from Legal Force for a copy of the information The 
Lifetime SIPP holds for you.
This subject access request has been made under section 7 of the Data Protection 
Act, and in accordance with the code of practice has been issued  to you directly  to 
review. You now have the option to share this information with Legal Force  if you so 
wish.
We also recommend  that you visit the Financial Ombudsman website (www.financial-
ornbudstrian.org.uk/) for further information, on the options
available to you.
Again, if the parties  havent  seen any of this documentation, they can contact the investigator to 
request copies.
DISP rule 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers  it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service  . . . more than: 
a)six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware  (or ought  
reasonably to have become  aware) that he had cause  for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within  
that period and has a written acknowledgement  or some other  record of the complaint having 
been received;
Mr Hs pension benefits  were switched  to his SIPP in May 2012 and the investments finalised  the 
following month.  Although  it seems clear the process of arranging this began late in 2011. The first 
evidence Ive seen that Mr H made a complaint  (as defined in the rules) is the letter from his 
representative to Best Practice dated 6 July 2018, which is more than six years later. In the absence 
of anything to indicate  Mr H complained sooner and within six years  of the advice he received in 
2011/12, I must decide whether he should have known he had cause for complaint  more than three 
years before he actually did so. So, before  July 2015.
Ive already explained why I believe Mr H received advice  before he applied  to switch  his pension 
benefits to the SIPP and that his original SIPP application  wasnt made  on an execution-only basis.  In 
terms of what  Mr H knew about what was being proposed when he applied for the SIPP, what  hes 
told us indicates he was probably aware  there was some risk involved. But that doesnt mean  he had 
a detailed understanding of what he was getting into. Mr H doesnt  appear to have been an 
experienced or sophisticated  investor and I dont think theres anything to indicate he had information  
available to him from the outset  that should have made him aware the advice he was receiving  might 
have been unsuitable. If he had genuinely  understood that, I think its unlikely  hed have gone ahead.
In terms of when Mr H did become aware he had cause for complaint, I note hes said he realised 
something was wrong and contacted another firm for assistance before  ultimately progressing  with his 
current representative.  While  hes not clear about exactly when that was, I think its likely this was in 
2017 and it was this contact that resulted  in a subject access  request to Lifetime  in September  2017.  
Ref: DRN158998619So I think its reasonably clear he knew he had reason to complain at that point but this is less than 
three years before his current representative addressed a complaint to Best Practice.
To ascertain  whether Mr H should reasonably have known he had reason  to complain earlier,  weve 
asked Hartley for historic SIPP statements  and/or  valuations. Weve also been provided with copies  of 
investor updates from 2013 and 2014.
Hartley has provided a copy of a valuation statement  from September 2017.  This shows InvestUS  
was worth substantially less than Mr H invested, but I dont think  it should necessarily have caused 
concern given  the payments from the investment back into the SIPP in 2013 and 2014.  I think  its also 
relevant to note that the overall value of the SIPP, including the amount in cash  (that had been 
generated by the 2013 and 2014 payments out of Invest US) was still worth approximately  the same 
amount as was originally switched from his Friends Life pension.
Unfortunately, Hartley hasnt been able to provide any earlier  statements. But based on the 
information it provided  in September 2017, I dont think theres any reason to believe  earlier 
statements should have  given Mr H cause for complaint about the original advice. Hartley has said it 
stopped attributing a value to InvestUS in September 2017, so it wouldnt have been until Mr H 
received the next valuation that it could  reasonably be said the information  he was receiving from 
Hartley should  have  made him aware he had reason to complain.
The fact Lifetime responded to a subject access request  on the same day as the September 2017 
valuation could indicate Mr H already had concerns  about the investment by this time. I dont think its 
possible to say exactly  when  he became concerned but I have  considered the other information 
available to assess whether  this realisation  should have occurred before July 2015.  
The relevant evidence from before July 2015  consists of two investor updates  from 2013  and 2014. 
Ive considered these carefully  to assess whether they should have made Mr H aware he had reason 
to complain.
The first of these updates, dated 23 July 2013, paints a very positive picture. It says:
The InvestUS project has now been in operation for just over 12 months during which time a 
considerable number of properties have been purchased, renovated and made  available for 
sale. All purchased properties have been acquired with a clear title, confirmed to us by the 
independent title company Metro Equity Services Inc.
All properties  have achieved capital appreciation which  in part will be offered to potential  new 
purchasers, providing  instant equity  in their new home purchase. This continues  the ethos  of 
assisting disadvantaged families as detailed  within the Information Memorandum.
The project  operators. Right Buy Properties (RBP), have been overwhelmed by the 
considerable response  investors have  made to this project. This has allowed RBP to progress 
this project ahead of its original schedule. As a result of the progress  made, InvestUS Ltd and 
RBP are able to announce that partial returns of the Investors Capital will also be made with 
the annual returns now due.
It then goes on to say Mr H will be receiving a payment consisting  of a 15% annual return and a 33% 
return of his original investment. This is the payment that was made  back into his SIPP  around the 
same time.
In my view,  this update only included  good news  and theres nothing that should  have given  Mr H 
cause for concern.
The second  update, dated  1 October 2014, is slightly different. It says:
Ref: DRN158998620As you are aware the project has been recently taken over by InvestUS Michigan LLC who 
are now responsible for delivering this project to a successful  conclusion.
We have  previously issued updates  in regards  to the ongoing situation that brought about the 
necessary action by InvestUS Michigan LLC, which has included legal notices being  issued to 
former operators Right Buy Properties.
We have  been assured that the interest of all investors has been secured and that all assets 
acquired and improved from funds committed are legally owned by our investment group.
The process  of buying, refurbishing,  renting  and selling these properties are the principal  
focus of all parties and to ensure the project operates and performs as intended.
Everyone involved in this investment appreciates your understanding particularly  as it may 
have seemed the project was heading  in the wrong direction. We as administrators are 
satisfied that changes  made have been for the benefit of you, the investor  and look forward  to 
a smoother operation in the months  to come.
It then goes on to confirm Mr H will receive  a payment  consisting of a 15% annual  return  and that the 
value of his shares in InvestUS were still valued  at the original  purchase price  of £1.
To a sophisticated investor with the benefit of hindsight, it may be possible to argue  that this should  
have made  investors  aware that the investment hadnt always been working as planned.  But Mr H 
wasnt a sophisticated investor with the benefit of hindsight. I think  the overall message he would 
reasonably have taken from this update was that any problems  there might  have been  had been 
resolved and things were expected to progress  smoothly in future. I think  it would also have been 
reasonable for him to take comfort  from the fact he was receiving the income he was expecting  and 
that his shares had retained their value. So it follows  that I dont think this update should  have made  
Mr H aware he may have cause for complaint about  the advice hed received.
This was the last annual return paid and theres an argument  that once he became  aware these 
payments werent being  made, Mr H should have realised the investment wasnt behaving as 
expected and that he had reason to complain about  any advice  he received. But the last annual return  
was paid in October 2014 and the next presumably wouldnt have been expected until approximately 
a year later.  So I dont  think it can be said that Mr H knew that the expected returns  werent going to 
be paid before July 2015.
Taking account of all the evidence  Ive been  provided  with, I dont think theres sufficient  grounds to 
conclude Mr H should  have  realised he had reason to complain about  the advice he received to 
transfer his pension benefits to the SIPP  and invest in InvestUS more  than three years before he did 
so in July 2018. Im therefore satisfied that his complaint  was made  within the timescales set out in 
our rules. 
conclusions on jurisdiction
Im satisfied the activities of advising on and/or making  arrangements involving Mr Hs existing 
pension, SIPP and unregulated investment were regulated activities.  I think theres  clear evidence 
Future Financial  was involved in arranging  the SIPP and pension switch  and I think its more likely 
than not that it also provided advice on this. Further, I  believe these  were activities  Future Financial  
was authorised for by Best Practice. The fact Future Financial didnt carry out those activities in the 
way it may have wanted - because  other administrative requirements that are said to have been 
included in the compliance manual werent adhered to - isnt sufficient for Best Practice  to avoid 
responsibility.
Im also satisfied that Mr H complained in time.
Ref: DRN158998621On balance, and taking everything into account, I conclude that this complaint falls within our 
jurisdiction and is one we can consider.
My Provisional Findings  - Merits
Mr Hs complaint was prompted  by the failure  of the unregulated investment in his SIPP, which he 
doesnt think  was suitable  for his circumstances and needs. But switching his pension benefits to the 
SIPP was a necessary precursor to being able to incorporate the unregulated investment into his 
pension planning.  So, I think its clear  that any advice on the pension and the investments  was closely  
linked.
From the information provided and what Ive observed from other recent complaints involving  Best 
Practice and Future Financial, I think its likely  (whether or not they actually spoke to Mr H) that Mr L 
and Mr K were the driving force behind him putting money into InvestUS.  And when carrying  out any 
activities associated with the investment, I think Best Practice is probably  correct  to say they were  
acting independently of Jordan FS and Future Financial.  The evidence indicates they were  instead 
more likely  to be acting for a separate and unregulated business, Project Kudos Group.
But for the reasons Ive explained in this decision,  I think the evidence is clear that Future Financial 
was involved in arranging the SIPP  and pension  switch and knew what  was going on. As Ive also 
explained above, I think its unlikely Mr H would have switched his pension  benefits to a SIPP without 
advice and that this advice most likely came from Mr J, who Mr H recalls dealing with, and possibly 
others who represented Future Financial.
I think  its likely Mr L essentially acted as an unlicensed  introducer when carrying  out activities related 
to Mr Hs investments. But that created  a problem as the investments being used could only be 
established if he switched  his pension  benefits  to a SIPP. Lifetime only accepted applications  from a 
regulated firm and that meant it was necessary for a regulated firm to advise on and arrange  the SIPP 
and pension  switch. I think this is where Mr J and Future Financial became  involved.
Was Future Financial  responsible for ensuring the investment within Mr Hs SIPP was suitable?
The background  Ive described  is one where Mr L arranged Mr Hs investments and Future Financials 
involvement in the process was limited to advising  on and arranging the SIPP and pension switch.  But 
the fact Future Financials  involvement may have been limited to Mr Hs pension arrangements  
doesnt mean  it wasnt also responsible  for ensuring any investment within the SIPP was suitable.
In January 2013, the regulator (at that time, the FSA) issued an Alert  on pension  transfers with a 
view to investing into unregulated products through SIPPs. Although the alert was issued  after the 
actions in this case took place, it commented on how the rules should  have been complied  with at the 
time.
The alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advise rs are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  investme nts  (some   which  may  be  in Unregulated   
Collective   Investment   Schemes) . Examples   of   these   unregulated investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents, store  pods,  forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
Ref: DRN158998622The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt (e.g. an overseas 
property development). When customers express an interest in the unregulated investment, 
the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP 
capable of holding the unregulated investment. The financial adviser does not give advice on 
the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of 
holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated financial  adviser also assists 
the customer  to unlock monies  held in other investments  (e.g. other pension arrangements) 
so that the customer  is able to invest in the unregulated investment.
. . . .
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice   generally requires 
consid eration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investm ent in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), 
consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to 
financial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
impleme nting a wider investment strategy the pension  transfer must take account of the 
overall investme nt strategy the custom er is contemplatin g.
For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  knowi ng  that  the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment unde r a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property 
investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer into 
the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual  circumst ances of the custom er, the 
original pension produc t, including its unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the 
customer, then the SIPP is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
I think  the guidance  is clear  that Future Financial shouldnt have been advising on and making 
arrangements to switch  Mr Hs pension benefits to the SIPP without first considering the type of 
investments hed go on to use and whether  these  were  suitable for him. I havent found any clear 
evidence to show Future Financial knew what investment was being proposed, but Im satisfied it 
could have found that out if it had asked the right questions of the right people.  
Taking everything into account, I think its clear that I now need to consider whether  Mr Hs 
investment was suitable  for his needs. And if not, whether  its appropriate to require Best Practice  to 
put things right.
Was the advice suitable  for Mr H?
Ref: DRN158998623For it to conclude the advice to switch  his pension benefits to the SIPP  was suitable for Mr H, knowing 
the type of investments that would then be used, Future Financial needed to be broadly satisfied that:
the SIPP  itself was a suitable vehicle for his pension savings;
the type of investment planned met his investment objectives and attitude to risk;
this type of investment fitted his financial  position and he could reasonably afford  to take the 
risks involved; and
he understood and was prepared to accept those risks.
In considering these issues now, its important that I dont base my decision on hindsight.  Future 
Financial wouldnt have known at the time that the investment would perform as it did and its nature 
doesnt mean  it was automatically destined to fail.
When considering whether  the investments were suitable for Mr H, Future Financial  should  have 
treated him as a normal  retail  client  and Ive seen nothing to indicate a valid assessment was 
completed that meant he could reasonably have been treated in any other way. As Ive already said, 
theres nothing to indicate he was a knowledgeable,  experienced or sophisticated investor and theres  
nothing about his occupation  or investment  experience to indicate  he would have been able to 
interpret any promotional documentation  he received  to decide for himself whether the investment 
was suitable. And it wouldnt have been reasonable for Future  Financial  to have assumed  this was the 
case. 
Based on the available information, including  that provided in Mr Hs recent submission, my 
understanding of his circumstances  at the time is as follows:
he was in his forties;
he lived with his partner  and had dependant children;
he was employed in an occupation that wasnt related to financial  services  and earned 
approximately £22,000  per year, and had no other income;
he lived in council rented accommodation; and
he had no savings, investments, or pension  benefits other than those  that were  switched into 
the SIPP.
The first issue  to consider  is whether the SIPP  itself was a suitable vehicle for Mr Hs pension 
savings. And in my view,  the fees and charges  that applied should  have been an important 
consideration. Charges  are typically higher for SIPPs than for other types of personal pension and this 
was a particularly important  consideration in Mr Hs circumstances given the amount  switched was 
small and the negative impact of higher charges  could be comparatively more significant than if hed 
had a larger fund.
On reviewing the SIPP  history provided  by Hartley, I can see that Mr H paid an initial fee of £450 after 
the switch was completed, which equated  to more  than 3% of the value of his Friends Life pension.  
He then paid further SIPP fees of £360 in 2013,  £372 in 2014, £384 in 2015,  £744 in 2016,  and £744 
in 2017. I think this shows  the fees paid accounted for a significant  portion of Mr Hs funds  and theyre  
higher than I believe he needed to pay if hed continued using a standard personal  pension.  In the 
absence of evidence Mr H was particularly  looking to use non-mainstream investments  that could  only 
be accessed via a SIPP, I think a consideration  of the charges alone  leads to the conclusion  that Mr H 
shouldnt have been advised  to switch  his pension  benefits. Instead, I think he should have been 
actively advised against  it.
Turning to the selected  investment, InvestUS wasnt a mainstream product. It was a specialised 
investment that posed a complex series of risks. It invested in a single type of asset,  which increased 
the chances of future liquidity  problems and/or the failure of the investment.  It was also based 
overseas, meaning it was subject to laws in other another country and potential currency fluctuations.  
Further, it was unregulated, meaning  Mr H couldnt fall back on the protection  offered  by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme  (FSCS) if things  went  wrong. All of this means the investment would 
Ref: DRN158998624reasonably be seen  as involving a high degree of risk and thats why the regulator has consistently 
said this type of product isnt suitable for and shouldnt be marketed to most retail  investors.
No evidence has been provided  to show Future Financial  considered whether  the proposed 
investment was suitable  for Mr H, including  whether  it was consistent  with the risks he was willing to 
take. But from his conversation with one of our investigators, it does seem that he knew there was 
some risk and was willing to accept that. But this doesnt mean  he understood the full extent of these  
risks, including that the investment was unregulated  and he didnt  have FSCS protection. The money  
invested represented all of Mr Hs pension  savings and his circumstances dont suggest he was likely 
to have the capacity to replace any losses. So, in the circumstances, I think  Future Financial should 
have concluded the proposed investment  wasnt suitable for Mr H and advised him against that as 
well.
On balance, I think  the SIPP and investment were  unsuitable  for Mr Hs circumstances and needs.  If 
Future Financial  had carried  out a proper suitability  assessment as it should have,  I believe it would 
have reached  the same conclusion. Before  arranging  his SIPP or the switch of his pension benefits,  
and irrespective  of what Mr H might have discussed with anyone else before it became involved,  
Future Financial  should therefore have  explained to him that what was being  proposed wasnt suitable  
and advised against it. Its because it didnt do this that Im proposing to uphold this complaint.
the consequences of this failing
 
Future Financial  was a regulated advisory firm (through  its association with Best Practice)  and if an 
authorised financial adviser had told Mr H that the SIPP and unregulated investment werent  suitable, 
explained the reasons for this, and offered  appropriate alternatives,  I dont think  its likely  hed have  
proceeded. He was an inexperienced  investor with a small pension pot and limited capacity to replace 
losses and I dont  think  the evidence  shows he was particularly attached  to the idea of using  
unregulated investments  or making any changes to his pension arrangements before he received an 
unsolicited approach.
Im aware Future Financial probably  wasnt the only party involved in the events  being complained  
about. But, for the reasons  Ive explained, I believe Mr H would now be in a different position if it had 
acted as it should have. Ive already explained  why I think advising on and making  arrangements 
involving the SIPP was something Future Financial was permitted to do under the terms of the AR 
agreement. Im therefore satisfied its appropriate for me to require Best Practice to put things right.
conclusions
Im satisfied Future Financial  advised Mr H on his pension planning  and arranged  for his benefits  to 
be switched to the SIPP  and that Best Practice is responsible for its actions. When giving  advice on 
Mr Hs pension arrangements, Future Financial also had a responsibility to consider whether  the 
investments he was planning to use were suitable.  Because the SIPP and investments were  
unsuitable and Future Financial didnt  explain  this or offer suitable  alternatives as it should  have, I 
think Mr H is in a different position to that which he should be and that its appropriate for me to 
require Best Practice to put things right.
Putting Things Right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would now be in if hed 
been given suitable  advice. Its not possible  to say precisely what  he would  have done instead.  But on 
the basis  that he received an unsolicited approach  and doesnt appear to have been planning  to make 
changes to his pension arrangements,  I think its likely  hed have continued with his original Friends 
Life pension and remained invested in the same fund(s).
In the cases involving Mr and Mrs R, Best Practices  representative appeared to question  what  steps 
they took to mitigate their loss, but I dont think theres any failing on Mr Hs part in this area that 
should affect any compensation  hes now due. He raised a complaint with Best Practice within the 
Ref: DRN158998625timeframe set out in our rules and, given  the nature of his investment and whats happened to it, its 
difficult to see what else he could reasonably  have been expected to do to mitigate  his loss.
what should Best Practice do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Best Practice should  compare  the performance of his SIPP  with what he 
would have achieved  if his money had remained  invested  in his Friends Life pension  and in the same 
fund(s). If the fair value is greater than the actual  value , theres a loss and compensation is payable. 
Best Practice  should also add interest as set out below.  If the actual value  is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, Best Practice should pay into Mr Hs pension plan to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Best Practice is unable to pay the compensation  into Mr Hs pension  plan, it should  pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Hs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr H would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
actual value
This is the actual value  of the SIPP at the date of my final decision.
 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the SIPP. This can be complicated  where some of the 
investments involved are illiquid (meaning they cant be readily sold on the open market) as appears 
to be the case here. So, the actual value  of any illiquid investments should be assumed to be nil to 
calculate fair compensation. Best Practice should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying  
a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance  paid as set out above.
If Best Practice is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Best Practice may require Mr H to provide an undertaking  to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Best Practice  will need 
to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what Mr Hs pension savings would be worth (at the date of my final decision) if theyd 
remained invested in his Friends  Life pension  and in the same fund(s). Best Practice  should ask the 
previous pension  provider to calculate this notional valuation.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private  Investors  
Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income total return 
index) should  be used to calculate  what  the amount switched into the SIPP  would now be worth.  In 
my view, thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if the pension 
had been held in suitable funds.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation from 
Ref: DRN158998626that point  on. If there are a large number  of regular  payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept  
if Best Practice totals  all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
interest
If compensation isnt paid within 28 days of Best Practice being notified that Mr H has accepted my 
final decision,  it should  add simple interest at 8% per year from the date of my decision to the date 
compensation is paid.
Income tax may be payable on any interest. If Best Practice deducts income tax from the interest,  it 
should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. It should give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists  because  of the unregulated  investments used.  In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further fees to be prevented, any illiquid investment needs to be removed. Ive set out above how 
this might be achieved by Best Practice taking over the investment, or this is something Mr H can 
discuss with the SIPP provider directly.  But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power  to tell them  what  to do. To provide certainty to 
all parties, I think its fair that Best Practice pay Mr H an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using  the previous years fees). This should  provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
additional compensation
I think  the problems Mr H has experienced  with his pension arrangements as a result of the actions of 
Best Practices AR have caused him considerable unnecessary  trouble and upset over a prolonged 
period and that he should  be compensated for that. The precise impact of this situation on Mr H, and 
therefore the amount to award, is difficult to assess. But in the circumstances, I think a substantial 
payment of £500 is fair and reasonable. Best Practice would need to pay this amount direct to Mr H 
(not into his pension) in addition to any compensation calculated using the method outlined above.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that we can consider  this complaint and I intend to uphold it. I currently 
think Best Practice IFA Group Limited should pay Mr H compensation  calculated using  the method set 
out above,  including  the additional compensation  covering  future SIPP fees and for his trouble and 
upset.
Ref: DRN1589986