K821x#15complaint
Ms I says Western  Circle Ltd  trading as Cashfloat  - irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three high-cost  short-term  loans  Cashfloat provided to Ms I between  
January and March  2018. Ms Is borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Highest Instalment Amount Repayable
1 07/01/2018 10/01/2018 1 £400.00 £476.80
2 24/02/2018 07/03/2018 2 £400.00 £279.39
3 23/03/2018 outstanding 4 £600.00 £249.20
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Is complaint and thought that all the loans shouldnt  have  been  
given because the information  Cashfloat  had gathered about Ms I showed she was having  
problems managing her money due to having other  outstanding short-term loans when she 
was given loan 1. 
Cashfloat disagreed and raised a few points which I have  summarised below:
Cashfloat said it did proportionate checks on Ms I which were in line with the 
guidance from the regulator and these searches showed Ms I had a good credit  
record. 
It said it didnt agree that other  outstanding short-term loans automatically  means  
further lending  is unsustainable. 
Cashfloat also said it did a thorough  affordability assessment. 
It lastly said that Ms I had a month  break between loans 1 and 2 and both were 
repaid early  which demonstrated Ms I wasnt caught in a debt spiral.  
As Cashfloat asked  for an ombudsmans decisions,  the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms I 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN13305012But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Ms I could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  defines  sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Is complaint. Having done so I think   although Cashfloat did 
do a number of checks on Ms I before it lent her loan 1  from the information those checks 
showed, Cashfloat ought to have also realised that Ms I wouldnt have been able to make  
her repayments for loan 1 sustainably without taking  out more lending.  Ill explain why.
I can see that Cashfloat has provided its findings to us. Having reviewed all of this, I dont 
think Ms I was able to repay these loans.  The checks  show  that Ms I already had several 
outstanding debts including other short-term loans as well as longer term loans and defaults 
on existing loans. In addition, there  was a number of new accounts  being opened around 
this time and a high number of credit searches  showing that Ms I was attempting to get 
further credit. And the repayments of these  other  debts did use up a large  amount  of her 
income. 
I think all of this was a clear indication that Ms I was in a debt cycle  and relying  upon  
borrowing to repay  borrowing. So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 1, 2 and 3 
and Cashfloat  should put things right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
Ref: DRN13305013refund  all interest and charges Ms I paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
rework loan 3 applying all payments made  by Ms I as if they went  towards  the 
principle amount borrowed. But importantly,  Cashfloat needs to make sure it collects 
no more than the principle loan lent.
If and when the amount Ms I has paid exceeds the amount she was lent, any further 
amounts should  be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments that may have been 
made should be refunded to Ms I with 8% simple interest from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement; 
if after reworking loan 3 Ms I still has an outstanding principle sum then Cashfloat 
cans use the refund from loans  1 and2  to offset  this balance. If there is any refund 
left over then this should be paid directly to Ms I;
remove any negative information  about loans 1, 2 and 3 from Ms Is credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest.  Cashfloat  must give Ms I a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above Ms I still has an outstanding  balance due on loan 3, then Cashfloat 
should try and work together  with Ms I to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in 
order to repay what is owed. But Id remind Cashfloat of its obligation to treat Ms I fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms Is complaint. Western  Circle Ltd should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1330501