K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr H took out PPI policy around the same time as taking out a mortgage.  Mr H says 
he remembers things happened during  a meeting.  But BoS records  show  PPI was sold over 
the phone.
The policy provided  protection for Mr Hs mortgage payments in the event he couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay out for up to 24 
months per claim and it cost less than £10 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr H was employed and he said he was entitled to some  sick pay, 
although he says he cant remember the exact  terms. Mr Hs mortgage  application  records  
that he had some savings  at the time, and he told us he was in good health.
BoS records show the mortgage account ended  in 2006.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr H chose  to take out the cover.  And there was nothing to indicate  it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him.
Because Mr H disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer he was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  My reasons are set out below.
did Mr H have a choice about PPI?  
Mr H says he was encouraged to request PPI during the mortgage application process  and 
says he felt his application  would be looked at unfavourably if he said No to PPI. Ive listened 
carefully to what Mr H says. 
In deciding how much  weight to place on what Mr H says, Ive considered his evidence  
alongside that provided by BoS. And having done so, Ive not seen  enough to support what 
Mr H says happened at the time.
Firstly, Im mindful  that Mr H says things happened during a meeting and that he was 
encouraged to take out the policy during  the mortgage application process. 
Ref: DRN14687142But Mr Hs mortgage application records  that his application was completed by a third-party 
intermediary and not a BoS representative.  There is no mention of PPI on the mortgage  
application. BoS records show that PPI was sold over the phone after receipt  of Mr Hs 
mortgage application.
BoS doesnt have a call recording of the phone conversation,  or a phone  script to show how 
PPI was likely introduced. And this isnt surprising given how long ago the sale took place  
its also many years  since the account  closed.
So, in light of the limited evidence about  an event which  took place over 18 years ago, I dont 
think I can fairly say that BoS more likely than not misrepresented  the policy  as not being 
optional or that Mr H was pressured to take it out.
the advice
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr H. This means BoS had to check that the PPI was 
right for Mr H  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he was eligible for the cover; he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual  
employment circumstances, and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Mr H says his circumstances  changed around  the time of the sale and his outgoings were 
much smaller, so he couldve  managed if he was out of work. But I still think the policy  
couldve been useful  to Mr H had the insured risks become a reality. Mr H might have been  
able to manage on his existing  means for a short period of time. But I think  he wouldve 
struggled if he found himself in the unfortunate position of being out of or unable to work  for 
an extended period. The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay entitlement  and 
for longer if necessary  - up to 24 months per claim.  I think  this couldve helped Mr H out at 
what would  likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time and wouldve offered  him peace of 
mind that his mortgage payments and ultimately  his home  were  protected.
So, for these reasons  I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended the cover to 
Mr H.
the information   
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr H 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But as I found above, I think he likely 
chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.  And as I also said above,  
based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for him - it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  At less than £10 a 
month it also looks like it was affordable.  So, I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr H off taking out the cover.
This means  I dont  think Mr H has lost out as a result  of having PPI, so BoS doesn't  have to 
pay back to Mr H what he paid for PPI.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Ref: DRN14687143Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1468714