K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about the service she received  from HSBC  UK Bank Plc in 
connection with her current account.
background
Mrs T has a current account with HSBC which she can access  online. To do this she needs 
to use a secure key provided by HSBC. This gives her a temporary  code which she can use 
to access online banking.
In April 2019 Mrs Ts secure key stopped working.  Her husband went  to the HSBC  branch 
where the account is held and asked for a replacement key which  was provided to him. 
Mrs Ts husband  says he was then questioned about the fact he had been  viewing  Mrs Ts 
account, himself.
Mrs T telephoned HSBC and, after she passed  security, the new secure key was activated. 
But a few days later she discovered her account  had been  frozen.  She telephoned HSBC  
and was told she would need to attend the branch in person to unfreeze  the account. She 
went to the branch, as requested, but it wouldnt accept the documents she produced as 
proof of her identity so it didnt unfreeze the account.
Mrs T complained to HSBC. It said the branch had frozen the account  because of concerns  
regarding its security and it had followed the correct  process. It said Mrs T would have to 
attend the branch with a form of photo  identification to unfreeze  the account.
Mrs Ts husband  emailed copies of the documents shed produced at the branch to HSBC 
and the freeze was then removed from her account. HSBC said the branch staff could have 
used their discretion  and accepted the documents as proof of her identity at the time she 
took them to the branch. It paid her £30 to compensate her for this.
Mrs T wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think HSBC  
had made  an error in following  its security procedures. He thought  it could have exercised 
some discretion to unfreeze the account but he thought the compensation it had paid was 
adequate in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ts account say she can allow another  person to operate  
the account if she gives HSBC a signed third party mandate or power  of attorney. She hadnt  
done this for her husband.
When he went to the branch  to request a new secure key, Mrs Ts husband  told a staff 
member he had been viewing her account  for ten years. Whilst I accept Mrs T had given him 
Ref: DRN11242492permission to do this, she hadnt told HSBC. It was under a duty to protect  her security and, 
in the circumstances, Im satisfied it was reasonable for it to freeze  the account.
Its unfortunate that HSBC didnt make it clear  to Mrs T what  documents  she would need to 
produce at the branch as proof of her identity and that the branch staff didnt exercise  
discretion and accept  the documents she took with her. But she wasnt  required to make  
another visit to the branch  before the account  was unfrozen and I think the £30 HSBC has 
paid her is reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset she was caused. Im not 
going to require HSBC to pay any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1124249