K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  JP Morgan Europe Limited (trading as the Post Office)  will not refund 
disputed transactions  made from her account.
background
Miss E says that fraudulent cash machine  withdrawals totalling £2300  were made from her 
account over some  days between 15 June  2017  and 26 August 2017.  In  total,  there are 17 
withdrawals which she disputes.
Miss E told her bank  that she had been away on holiday between  15 June and 5 July 2017 
and had left her card at home as it could not be used outside  of the UK.  Whilst she was 
away, Miss E said a friend  had stayed at her property and this friend  had known Miss Es 
PIN.  Miss E also said another  friend  had stayed at her property and this person had used 
her card and had stolen  some of her belongings.
In between the disputed transactions were  transactions which Miss E did not dispute and 
accepted making.   During this period, she was also in contact with Post Office about  her 
account, had called  to unblock  her PIN which had been blocked on one occasion and had 
regular statements sent to her regarding the balance on the account.
Post Office  looked  into Miss Es complaint  but decided not to uphold it. It said there was no 
evidence that the withdrawals were  fraudulent.  It detailed the contact Miss E had had with 
members of staff throughout the period  of the disputed transactions  and said that she had 
failed to mention  them  at the time.  She  had also failed to provide any evidence  to support 
the fact that she had not been in the UK for a period of time.  
It concluded that Miss E had either made  the withdrawals herself or had authorised them.
Miss E didnt agree  so she brought her complaint to his service where one of our 
adjudicators looked into matters for her.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld either.  He told Miss E that there  
were too many inconsistencies in what she had told Post Office and what she had told this 
service for him to safely conclude that she hadnt  authorised these transactions.    Also, as a 
result of what Miss E had told him, our adjudicator couldnt understand how a third party 
could have obtained Miss Es PIN unless she had given it to them.
Miss E disagreed with our adjudicator too.  She  said CCTV would have shown that on 
occasion, it was not her but another person at the ATM withdrawing money.  She  wanted  her 
complaint reviewed  so that matter came  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I cannot 
uphold Miss Es complaint either.  My reasons, generally speaking,  are very much  the same  
as the adjudicators.
Ref: DRN17176542Generally, Post Office can hold Miss E liable for the disputed  withdrawals  if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made or authorised them  herself.  If it is more 
likely than not that she had not authorised them,  Post Office  must refund them.
As the adjudicator pointed out to Miss E  the relevant regulations say that authorisation is 
not proved just by the genuine card and PIN being used  (as they were on this occasion).  
Post Office  needs  to show that Miss E also consented to the transactions  being made.
Based on what I have seen, I think it is both fair and reasonable  for Post Office to have 
concluded that Miss E authorised these transactions.   And I dont think  CCTV would  have 
helped Miss E any further because the rules  say she could still be liable if a third party was 
making the transactions.
So, on balance, I think Miss E authorised these transactions.  In the circumstances, Post 
Office is entitled to hold her liable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1717654