K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained about the amount AXA Insurance UK Plc paid in settlement of a claim for 
costs he incurred in rehousing his tenant.
background
Mr S rents out a three bedroom property. The tenant notified the estate agent that sewage 
was coming from a manhole  into the kitchen. Emergency work was done  and a claim was 
lodged with AXA shortly  after.  AXA accepted  the claim and agreed that the tenant needed to 
be rehoused due to the damage  caused  and the repairs needed.
The complaint arose  because  the tenant  moved  to a property that cost £400 a night whereas 
AXA was only prepared  to pay £260 a night.  AXA said the tenant initially said he could move 
into his own two bedroom property, but eventually moved into the alternate  five bedroom 
property. AXA felt the amount it offered reflected the amount  it would  have cost for the 
tenant to move to a reasonable  alternate property  in essence, it felt the property the tenant 
moved to was unreasonable.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined  below and form part of my 
final decision.
policy cover
The policy said AXA would pay Mr S for the costs of reasonable alternative 
accommodation for his tenant  while the insured property couldnt be lived in due to 
insured damage. AXAs contractual liability was to Mr S  and that was only in respect of 
covering costs he incurred in re-housing the tenant  in reasonable alternative 
accommodation. It had no liability whatsoever to the tenant. Any rehousing  
arrangements were purely a matter between Mr S and tenant.
was the chosen alternative  accommodation  reasonable?
The policy provided cover for reasonable alternative accommodation. In deciding  whats  
reasonable (and, conversely, what isnt) I generally consider  the quality  of the property,  
its location and its size in respect  of the number of bedrooms. I dont necessarily look at 
the price as that can be affected  by a number of factors.
The tenant might  have considered the property he moved  to reasonable in respect of his 
needs and wants.  Mr S may have also considered this to be the case. However,  the 
deciding factor for me is whether  the alternative  property represented reasonable 
alternative accommodation in terms of its location, the number of bedrooms and its 
standard. Whats  reasonable is different in every case. For example, a property 10 miles 
away might  be reasonable  in one situation but might not be in another.
I didnt think the property the tenant moved  into could fairly be described as a reasonable 
alternative to Mr Ss property. It might have been  in the same location and have been a 
similar quality.  But it was a four/five  bedroom property when Mr Ss property  has three 
Ref: DRN12044392bedrooms. I didnt  think the tenants  property represented a reasonable alternative either 
 irrespective of any argument over whether  it was available.
was AXAs  offer fair?
I agreed with AXA that it wasnt required to pay the costs of re-housing the tenant in a 
four/five bedroom property. However,  I questioned  whether that was what Mr S asked it 
to do.
AXAs liability was to pay the cost of re-housing  the tenant in a reasonable alternative 
three bedroom property. AXA said that was £260  a night based on searches it made for 
short term lets and hotels  in the area at the time.  However,  it hadnt  supported  that with 
any documentary evidence because it didnt retain  copies of the searches. Mr S on the 
other hand provided evidence from a lettings agent showing that his property could be 
rented for between  £350 and £450 a night.
I wasnt therefore persuaded  by what Id seen that the cost of re-housing the tenant in a 
reasonable alternative three  bedroom property was £260 a night.
Even if the cost was £260 a night,  the next issue was whether a property was available 
at short  notice at the time. AXA hadnt provided anything  to show  that such a property 
was available   at £260 a night or otherwise.  On the other hand, both the estate agent 
and the tenant said there were no suitable properties available (although the search area 
was possibly unreasonably narrow). Overall, I concluded on the balance  of probabilities 
based on what Id seen that no suitable three  bedroom property was available at short 
notice for the tenant to move  into. That meant it wasnt entirely unreasonable that the 
tenant needed to be re-housed in a bigger property. There was also a good argument 
that the amount the tenant paid for the alternative  property  wasnt the price of a four/five  
bedroom property  but of a three  bedroom  one  as he negotiated the landlord down from 
£600 a night to £400 a night.
summary
With all the above in mind, I thought AXA treated Mr S unfairly by settling the alternative 
accommodation claim at £260  per night. That was because:
oit hadnt been shown that reasonable alternative  accommodation would have cost 
£260 a night or that such accommodation  would have  been available;
oit had been  shown it would most likely  have  cost between £350 and £450 a night 
for an alternative reasonable property; and
oirrespective of whether the property the tenant moved to was a suitable like for 
like replacement, the cost Mr S incurred in rehousing the tenant was in line with 
the cost of a reasonable alternative property.
To resolve this complaint I thought it fair for AXA to pay Mr S an increased settlement of 
£140 a night for what I understood was 44 nights  so £6,160  in total,  plus interest to be 
paid from the date Mr S settled the matter with the tenant.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr S accepted my provisional decision but AXA didnt. If said properties were  available  at 
the time for the amount initially agreed  by the loss adjuster. It also said the loss adjuster 
Ref: DRN12044393confirmed that a temporary  hotel stay was offered whilst suitable accommodation was 
sourced, but the tenant declined this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response to my provisional decision AXA provided email trails that, I presume, it feels  
supports its position.  These emails arent new evidence  they were included  in the file that 
AXA originally sent us. And they were considered by me before  I issued  my final decision. 
So, in effect,  there  isnt anything further for me to consider. My final decision therefore 
remains as outlined in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
For completeness, the only email  contained within the trails AXA recently sent that I think  
might have any relevance is one from the estate agent outlining the results of a search for 
two and three bedroom properties for a six week period. This did show that three  bedroom  
properties were available in the area for between £230 and £250 a night. However, I think 
the email has very little evidential value in respect  of this complaint because  the search  was 
carried out two months  after the tenant needed  rehousing. And the market could have been 
completely different then. 
To summarise, Ive seen  nothing from AXA to suggest that reasonable properties were  
available at the time that would have  cost £260 a night. Ultimately, it should  have retained 
copies of the searches it said it carried out to support its position.  On the other  hand,  Ive 
seen evidence to suggest that £400 a night  was the cost of rehousing the tenant  in a 
reasonable alternative property  even if the property he was actually rehoused  in was 
unreasonable. So I conclude that AXA treated  Mr S unfairly by only paying £260  a night in 
settlement of his alternative accommodation claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay Mr S £6,160   plus interest at 
a rate of 8% simple per annum calculated from the date Mr S settled the matter with the 
tenant.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1204439