K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains he was led to believe by Everyday Lending Limited that if he repaid his loan 
early hed repay less than he borrowed.
To settle  matters hed like a refund  of the interest  hes paid.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ts complaint in my provisional decision. In that decision  I 
explained why I was proposing to partly uphold Mr Ts complaint. Below  Ill again  summarise 
the background to Mr Ts complaint and my provisional findings so that all relevant 
information is in this one decision.
Mr T entered into a loan agreement with Everyday  Lending  in October 2017. His loan was 
for £3,600 and was to be repaid over 36 monthly  instalments of £235.67. Mr T made nine 
monthly repayments totalling £2,121.03  but when he repaid his loan in July 2018 he found  
he had to repay more  than hed borrowed.
He says the payments hes made  havent been  used  to reduce the amount he borrowed. 
And he says he was told that if he repaid  the loan early, interest would be taken off what 
he owed and hed repay less than hed borrowed.  He also complains he wasnt  aware that 
interest would  be charged daily.
Mr T complained to Everyday Lending  but it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr T referred  
his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Everyday Lending  had explained  to Mr T that at the start of a loan more of each payment 
is applied to repay interest and as the loan progresses, more  of the monthly repayment 
goes to repay the loan itself.
And he also thought  Mr T was aware that interest would be applied  monthly.  This is 
because the loan agreement hed signed  stated that interest would be calculated  on the 
daily outstanding  balance and applied to the account monthly.  Finally  the investigator  
hadnt seen anything to indicate Mr T was told interest would be removed if the loan was 
repaid early.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators view.  In summary he didnt think he shouldve  paid as 
much interest as he did and he didnt  think hed signed anything  that allowed Everyday  
Lending to apply his payments towards interest rather than his actual loan.
In my provisional decision I acknowledged Mr Ts concern that despite making loan 
repayments of more than £2,000 the amount  the amount he owed hadnt reduced. But I 
didnt think Everyday Lending had treated him unfairly because the terms of the loan 
agreement hed signed allowed it to charge interest on the loan. And based on the 
information provided by Everyday  Lending  the interest charged appears to be in line with 
the loan agreement he signed.
I also thought  that when  Everyday Lending  calculated the amount due from Mr T on early  
settlement it had correctly  deducted from Mr Ts rebate £341.23   being the 58 days  
deferred interest it was entitled to deduct in accordance with The Consumer Credit (Early  
Settlement) Regulations  2004 (Regulations).
Ref: DRN11002322However, I explained that in the particular  circumstances of this complaint I thought this 
operated unfairly  on Mr T because, when he settled his loan early, he consolidated it with 
another loan from Everyday Lending. I thought that as Everyday Lending  would be able to 
continue to charge  him interest  on the new loan hed taken out, it was fair and reasonable 
for it to repay to Mr T £341.23.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  information before I reached a final decision.
Mr T confirmed he had nothing to add. Everyday Lending also responded. It confirmed  it was 
willing to refund the interest I set out in my provisional decision. However, it would like my 
decision to make clear that it correctly  applied the Regulations but its my opinion that the 
Regulations shouldnt  be applied here.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I thank both parties  for their further  
comments and note they are broadly in agreement  with my provisional  decision.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable I have  to take into account, amongst other things, the 
law. In this case this means  I have to take into account the way in which  lenders  must 
calculate settlement  figures in accordance with the Regulations. I will only depart from the 
law if I think its fair and reasonable  to do so.
I can understand  Mr Ts concern that despite making  loan repayments of more than £2,000 
the amount he owes hasnt reduced. But this doesnt  mean  hes been treated unfairly. This is 
because each instalment is made up of some  of the amount originally borrowed  known as 
the capital  and some is made up of interest  and charges. In the early stages of the loan, 
more of each monthly payment  is applied to pay interest  because  its calculated on the 
outstanding balance which will be higher at the start of the loan. But as the loan progresses, 
the remaining  balance  reduces and so more of the payment is used to repay the capital.
Mr T says hes not aware of anything  that allows Everyday Lending to charge  interest  
daily or that allows it to apply the payments hes made to repay interest.  Im afraid I dont 
agree. The loan agreement Mr T signed makes clear interest  will be calculated on the 
daily balance outstanding on the account  and applied to the account monthly on the date 
the monthly payments are due.
When a loan is repaid  early the Regulations  apply. When calculating  any settlement figure, 
a lender will initially work out the total interest payable as if the loan had remained 
outstanding for its full term. That amount is then reduced by an interest rebate, to reflect  
that the loan is being repaid early. The regulations allow lenders to defer the date of the 
calculation by a sum equivalent to 58 days interest where the loan is for more than a year  
which is the case here.
Everyday Lending  has provided details of Mr Ts account and the way it calculated  the 
settlement figure. Based on that information I can see the interest charged throughout 
the time Mr T had his loan appears to be in line with the loan agreement he signed at the 
time his loan was taken  out.
The information from Everyday Lending  shows it deferred the calculation of Mr Ts rebate by 
58 days as it was allowed  to do under  the Regulations. In the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN11002323complaint I consider it appropriate to depart from the Regulations in order to achieve a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
By applying  the Regulations I think this operated unfairly on Mr T. I say this because when 
Mr T settled his loan early he consolidated it with another loan from Everyday Lending. As 
Mr T has a new loan with Everyday Lending it will be able to charge him interest on his new 
loan. In these  circumstances I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Everyday Lending  
to repay £341.23  to Mr T.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Everyday Lending Limited  
to pay Mr T £341.23.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1100232