K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Clydesdale Bank Plc has been  overcharging her for many years  when 
shes used an overdraft.  She wants Clydesdale to refund the fees.
background
Ms P has a current account  with Clydesdale. She pays a monthly maintenance  fee, and an 
additional fee plus some  interest if she uses a planned overdraft. There are more charges 
and a different  (higher) rate of interest  if she goes over her agreed overdraft limit, which  she 
occasionally does.
Ms P thinks shes been overcharged for about  16 years. When  she complained  about this to 
Clydesdale it responded to say that  for the last 6 years  shed  been  charged interest and 
fees in line with the terms and conditions for her account. It said it wasnt  prepared to look at 
things that happened more than six years ago.
Ms P was unhappy  about that so brought her complaint  to us.
Our investigator explained why it was reasonable for Clydesdale  to restrict its assessment to 
the last six years worth of charges, and Ms P has accepted that. He also said he also 
thought the charges were  in line with the terms and conditions. He didnt think Ms Ps 
complaint should  be upheld.
Ms P remains unhappy so Ive been  asked  to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms P got this account she says her old account was converted. She thinks that was 
about 6 years ago. But she thinks shes been overcharged for much longer  than that.
Weve explained  to Ms P why we think Clydesdale  can say it doesnt want to look at things 
that happened more than six years  ago. Weve also explained about the court ruling  that 
said charges cant be challenged on amount  only mistakes in application. That means I 
cant say the charges  are too high,  but I can say if I think theyve been wrongly applied.
Ive looked at the statements for Ms Ps account, and all the amounts charged appear  to be 
in accordance with the terms and conditions for her account. So I dont think shes been 
overcharged. 
Ms P says she does  struggle sometimes to make ends meet  and goes over her agreed 
overdraft limit. That attracts extra charges, but it also means  Clydesdale is allowing some 
payments to go through her account that might otherwise fail, which does benefit Ms P. Id 
encourage Ms P to talk to Clydesdale about  whether  this account remains  suitable for her or 
if theres a better (that is cheaper) one. And Id remind Clydesdale that it should respond  
positively and sympathetically to Ms P if shes suffering from financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN11906392my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2018.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1190639