K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about issues they experienced when an agreement  with Hyundai 
Capital UK Limited  (trading as Kia Finance) ended.
background
In June 2016 Mrs L was supplied with a car and entered  into an agreement with Kia.
In September  2018 Mrs L handed back the car. The supplying dealership paid the settlement  
figure for the agreement twice in error  one payment of £16,378.51  and another of 
£16,410.98. The supplying dealer contacted Kia to advise of the overpayment. Kia issued a 
refund of £16,410.98 but this was sent to Mrs L in error instead of the supplying  dealership.
Around a month later the supplying dealer contacted Kia to advise that it hadnt received the 
refund. Kia advised  the dealer that it had issued the refund to Mrs L in error and said it would 
contact her and ask her to return it.
Kia tried to contact Mrs L to explain  that the refund had been issued to her in error. In 
November 2018  Kia issued a payment to the supplying dealer for £16,410.98 which was the 
amount Mrs L was due to return. Mrs L contacted Kia in December 2018. She said she 
hadnt been aware prior to this of where the money  had come from and said shed asked her 
bank to hold the money.
By mid December 2018 Kia hadnt received the money back from Mrs L. So it reversed the 
settlement on her account and placed  her agreement into arrears. It also sent her a notice of 
arrears.
In January 2019 Mrs L contacted Kia to complain about the arrears letter and the issues it 
had caused her. Kia upheld the complaint  and acknowledged that it had made an error. It 
offered to pay compensation of £100.
Mrs L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that although Kia had made an error 
the compensation offered  was fair.
Mrs L didnt agree. She said her complain was not only in relation to the initial  error but also 
in relation to poor customer service and harassment. Mrs L said that as soon as funds were  
sent to her account  she made efforts to contact  Kia but was told it had no record of the 
payment. Mrs L said that Kia hadnt logged her calls because there was no outstanding 
account to log them to. She also said Kia was aware that the funds had been  transferred to a 
holding account  at her bank  but had made no attempts to recover  the funds from the bank 
and had instead passed her account to debt recovery  causing her financial distress  and 
inconvenience. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14906272Theres no dispute that Kia made an error  when  it sent a refund to Mrs Ls bank account. It 
has acknowledged this and has offered compensation but Mrs L doesnt  feel that this 
adequately reflects  the impact of the error.
Mrs L has said that she tried to contact Kia several times as soon as she saw the money in 
her account.  Kia has said that it made  several attempts to contact Mrs L by letter  and 
telephone in November 2018.
Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs L has said and I understand how frustrating and time 
consuming this mustve been. But I also accept that Kias advisors might not have been able 
to locate her account  or the erroneous  payment on its system because the account had 
been settled in September 2018.
I can see that Mrs L contacted her bank about the money and was advised that Kia would 
need to submit a request for return of the funds. Kia has said that it submitted a return  
request but didnt  receive any response from the bank. Im unable to consider whether  the 
bank did anything wrong within the context  of this complaint.  However, if Kia requested  a 
return of the funds (and Ive no reason to doubt that it did) and didnt receive  the funds, then 
I have to consider  Kias  subsequent actions  in issuing a notice of default as against this 
background. In the circumstances I dont think Kia acted  unfairly  in defaulting  the account.
I appreciate that Mrs L was caused distress when  her bank account  was blocked just before 
Christmas but I cant  fairly  hold Kia responsible for this or the impact it had on Mrs Ls health 
and finances.  The decision to block the account  was a decision by the bank.
Based on everything  Ive seen, and whilst I agree that Kia made an error  when it refunded  
the money to Mrs Ls account, I dont think Kia acted  unfairly  or unreasonably when it tried to 
contact Mrs L about  the money. I understand the issues  which  Mrs L experienced as a result 
of her bank  account  being blocked  mustve  been distressing but I cant  fairly hold Kia 
responsible for this.
Taking everything into account  I think the compensation offered by Kia is fair and I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1490627