K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc was slow to process his application for a new 
current account. 
background
Mr T applied  for a current account with HSBC and for his existing account  with another 
provider to be transferred  to it. HSBC wrote to him on 21 January  2019 to confirm  that his 
account was open and to provide  him with the account details. The letter said that he would  
receive his card and PIN within seven days and that the bank would send  separately  
information about how to register for online,  mobile and telephone banking.  
Mr T says that a letter about  his telephone banking security code (which he would need to 
set up online  banking) was sent to him on 21 January, indicating that, once he returned  it, 
his request for a telephone security number (or TSN) would be processed within  six working 
days. When he hadnt received a TSN by 1 February, Mr T complained to the bank. 
HSBC says its records show that Mr Ts request for the TSN was logged  on 29 January and 
that it was sent to him on 4 February  within the timeframe indicated. In the meantime, Mr T 
tried to discuss his application  by telephone. He wasnt able to do so, however, since the 
application for telephone  banking hadnt been fully processed.
On 8 February HSBC  wrote to Mr T to confirm  that the transfer of his account had been 
completed and that it had received funds  from his previous account provider.   
Mr T referred his complaint to this service,  and one of our investigators looked  at it. The 
investigator felt that HSBC had treated Mr T fairly,  and also pointed out that he could have 
gone to a branch if he needed  to carry out transactions before he received  his TSN.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I dont believe 
that HSBC has treated  Mr T unfairly. 
I can understand why Mr T expected everything to be sorted out and his account  including  
telephone and online banking  to be fully functioning by no later than 30 or 31 January. And 
I can see too why he was frustrated that it wasnt. As he has pointed  out, it wasnt easy for 
him to visit a branch, and he had in any event deliberately chosen an account  that he could 
manage online and by telephone. 
But I dont believe that HSBC promised Mr T that everything would be fully functioning  within 
the timeframe he suggests. The bank says it received the necessary  paperwork from Mr T 
on 29 January and sent the TSN within six working  days of that, on 4 February. If, as he 
says, Mr T sent the paperwork  back on or about 22 January,  Id expect it to have been 
received by HSBC  a few days before 29 January. But its possible it wasnt. 
Be that as it may, I think the timescales given  were no more than an indication  of how long 
things were likely to take. Assuming Mr T sent the paperwork back  on 22 January and it 
arrived the following  day, he was sent his TSN on the ninth day after receipt. That isnt 
unreasonable in my view and nor is it too far out of line with the indication HSBC  provided.  
And, whilst Mr T says he needed this to set up new direct debits, for example,  any existing 
Ref: DRN16005332direct debits and other regular payments  were  transferred under the current account 
switching scheme. He hasnt suggested  there  was any problem with that side of things, or 
that there  were any payments he wanted to make or set up during the time he was waiting 
for his TSN. Overall,  therefore, I dont believe that HSBC has treated Mr T unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do any more to resolve Mr Ts 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1600533