K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Julian Hodge Bank Limited  (trading as Hodge Lifetime) has applied 
too much  interest  to her lifetime mortgage.
background
Mrs W took out a lifetime mortgage  with Hodge  Lifetime in 2006.  She took out a further eight 
loans between 2006 and 2012,  each with a different interest rate. Mrs W says Hodge  
Lifetime applied  interest  monthly instead of yearly as stated in the mortgage offer. She says 
it charged interest for two extra days one year. She asks that it corrects her account  and re-
calculates interest in accordance with the mortgage  offer. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
the mortgage offer says interest  is added to the loan each month. So Hodge Lifetime 
didnt make an error by adding interest  monthly.
Mrs W provided a copy  of a statement which said it was for 30 June 2009 to 30 June 
2010. Hodge  Lifetime said the date on the statement  was an error  and it should  have 
said 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010.  It confirmed the actual interest and the closing 
balance is correct.  
if the date interest was due fell on a weekend,  the debit would be applied  on the next 
working day. This meant  the debit could fall into the following  month.  In some cases, this 
made it appear that Hodge Bank had applied 13 monthly interest debits in one year. But 
this didnt mean Mrs W was charged too much interest overall.  
Hodge Lifetime had changed the format of statements and this had caused  confusion.  
And it made errors  with the dates on some statements.  But it said the actual interest 
calculations and the account  balance  are correct. 
Mrs W didnt agree. She says it took months  for Hodge Lifetime to accept it made errors. 
She says the only changes it made  in the revised  statements is to correct the dates  and 
this is why the amount of interest  and closing balances havent changed. 
Mrs W says interest  is charged daily and compounded monthly: the amount  of interest 
depends on the number of days in the month.  The revised statements work on the basis of 
calendar months  yet the amount of interest  is the same as in the previous statements. She 
says Hodge Lifetime  should be required to re-calculate  the interest in accordance with the 
mortgage offer. And it should provide its calculations and the rate of interest applied  to each 
mortgage account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN17186722There were some errors in Mrs Ws statements, for instance the dates for the period covered 
by the statements were incorrect. Mrs W says as interest is charged daily and compounded 
monthly, errors will affect the overall amount of interest charged.  
Mrs W is frustrated that she had to come to us before Hodge Lifetime accepted  it had made 
errors. But Hodge Lifetime  has accepted  it made errors and provided new statements. Its 
also sent spreadsheets showing  the daily interest rate (rounded to two decimal places)  and 
interest calculations.  
I understand that Mrs W is concerned about errors in her statements, and whether too much  
interest has been applied to her account. I appreciate  that shes  still concerned  that Hodge 
Lifetime hasnt provided statements in the prescribed format. And Mrs W has raised 
concerns with the equity release council, as she is entitled to do.
While we dont provide a checking service for things like mortgage interest calculations, the 
information provided in this regard would indicate  that the interest  has been calculated  
appropriately and as set out in the mortgage  terms and conditions.  Im not persuaded by the 
information available that too much interest has been charged against Mrs Ws mortgage, as 
she believes. I am satisfied that Hodge Lifetime  has corrected the errors it made with 
Mrs Ws statements. I dont think I can reasonably  require Hodge Lifetime to do more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that Julian Hodge Bank Limited 
has provided the information Mrs W requested and doesnt need to do more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1718672