K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that he was incorrectly advised  by an agent at Goldman Sachs International 
Bank. He says that by relying  on the wrong advice his transfer into his savings account was 
rejected and he was delayed  transferring his funds to receive a better interest  rate. He wants 
compensation for lost interest, stress  and his phone calls. 
background
Mr L had a savings  account with Goldman Sachs International  Bank  (Goldman Sachs),  and 
savings elsewhere.  His account at Goldman Sachs had a maximum limit of £250,000. 
In November 2018, Mr L called Goldman Sachs. He discussed with the agent his current 
balance and Mr L asked  if interest counted towards the maximum balance of £250,000. 
The agent  advised Mr L that it didnt.  
This was incorrect. 
Based on this information, Mr L calculated what he thought was the maximum he could 
transfer into the account and attempted to transfer  that amount. His payment  was rejected 
as it took him over the account balance limit.
Mr L was then restricted by his other savings amount as to how much  he was able to 
transfer that day. He paid in around £21,000 that day, which was a Friday), and then on the 
following Monday  transferred  a further  amount which brought his Goldman Sachs account 
up to near to the account limit. 
Mr L submitted a complaint. 
Goldman Sachs sent him its final response  letter shortly afterwards. It acknowledged  that he 
was given incorrect advice and offered him a goodwill gesture of £25. 
Mr L was not happy  with that offer and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  
Initially, she felt that Goldman Sachs  had made a reasonable offer.  Then after 
representations from Mr L, she amended  her view. She then thought  that Goldman Sachs 
ought to increase its offer of compensation. 
Goldman Sachs did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I appreciate that Mr L was caused  disappointment by receiving the wrong  information  
and that he was not able to transfer as much of his money into the account before the 
weekend. 
Ref: DRN19976532However, Goldman  Sachs has confirmed that the interest that Mr L missed out on over that 
time was up to around £11. Goldman Sachs  therefore feels  that this is encompassed by its 
offer of compensation. 
I have not seen evidence on the exact amount of interest that Mr L would have lost over the 
weekend, but assume  that his other account was also interest bearing  and so his lost 
interest will actually be less than the sum confirmed by Goldman Sachs. 
Mr L has referred to his stress and the cost of his phone calls.  I have seen the transcripts  of 
Mr Ls calls with the business and these calls do not appear to be long. I therefore think that 
Goldman Sachs  offer covers the cost of Mr Ls calls. 
Finally, in respect of distress and inconvenience,  Mr L was caused some inconvenience,  but 
I think this was minor and short lived, as he was able to transfer the funds soon afterwards. 
As a result, and while I realise this will be disappointing for Mr L, I think  that the offer of 
compensation by Goldman Sachs is reasonable, and within the range of awards  we would 
make in similar circumstances. 
I therefore think that Goldman Sachs  has acted  reasonably after its initial  mistake, and I 
would not ask it to do anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Goldman Sachs International Bank has made  a 
reasonable offer of compensation to make amends for its error, and I do not ask it to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1997653