K822xcomplaint 
Ms M has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy each  year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Ms M took out, will continue  to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Ms M. It has accepted 
the information it gave Ms M about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £500  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because her premium has 
increased significantly despite the policy paying out less in claims then she paid in premiums  
in the previous year. It also increased  further when the policy  was updated to include 
information RSA hadnt considered previously. She can no longer afford the policy,  and no 
other insurer will cover her pets pre-existing conditions  now.  
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Ms Ms policy was too high, she should have been charged  less for the 
policy, or that she should be charged less in the future.
While Ms Ms premium  has seen significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going  forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Ms M a significant amount of distress as she cant 
afford to continue with the policy or find equivalent,  affordable cover  elsewhere.  Ms M has 
said she would like RSA to increase the amount of compensation it has offered so she would 
have funds available should her pet need treatment   
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Ms M the information she needed  to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
Ref: DRN13411132wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
If Ms M hadnt  taken  a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, and would  
have had to pay for all her pets treatment  herself,  or a reduced level of cover, where  she 
would still have found herself in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were no longer 
covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Ms M having cover for ongoing  conditions at a fixed or capped  premium  this 
type of policy typically  doesnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her in this position. 
Ms M has told us RSA hasnt given  any consideration to her loyalty over the years,  
continuing to renew  the policy despite  the premiums increasing.  But while businesses may 
choose to offer customers discounts in order to retain their custom,  they are not under any 
obligation to do this.
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Ms M has 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Ms M for the trouble 
and upset shes been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Ms M £500  compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1341113