K820x#14complaint
Miss E is unhappy with the way Advantage  Insurance Company Limited  has dealt with a 
claim on her motor  insurance policy.
background
Miss E was involved in an accident  and she made a claim on her Advantage policy. Shes 
unhappy with the way Advantage dealt with the claim and complaint, that it didnt contact the 
other insurer and with the service provided by its engineer and salvage company. She also 
says the valuation of her car is incorrect. She wants her car repaired and to be put back  into 
the position she was in before the no fault accident  plus compensation.
Advantage accepted in its final response  that the level of service provided  throughout the 
claim had been  extremely  poor.  It said its clear  there  had been multiple errors including  in 
call handling, a lack of information  given,  the number of calls Miss E had to make,  incorrect   
information being taken, documents not issued, an engineers inspection incorrectly 
cancelled and incorrect names on an email. It apologised for the stress or inconvenience this 
and any unprofessional conduct by the engineer had caused.  But it said the total loss 
process has been handled  correctly.  Its also subsequently said its paid Miss E a total of 
£250 compensation.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Under the terms of the policy Advantage is entitled to take over, defend or settle  a 
claim as it sees  fit. But its clear Advantages service fell below the standard 
expected. Its also apologised if the engineer was unprofessional. 
Miss Es policy says Advantage will pay her the cars market  value at the time of the 
loss. Although she appreciates Miss Es concerns about the fairness of the valuation, 
having checked the motor  trade  guides  they show a valuation  of the car of between  
£920 and £1,415.  Advantage  offered  Miss E £1,800  which  is well above the average 
of the guide prices.  
Miss Es experience with Advantage clearly caused her distress and inconvenience. 
Advantage accepts  this and has paid her £250 compensation. Thats fair and she 
cant ask it to do or pay anymore.
Miss E remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She disputes what  is 
said to have happened with the engineer  and highlights his rude and unprofessional 
behaviour. She still thinks Advantages offer for the car was too low as it was low mileage, in 
good condition  and regularly serviced. The claims service she received was poor and shes  
been treated unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E says Advantages  valuation  of her car was too low and shes  also questioned 
whether it couldve  been  repaired.  I understand her concerns particularly given the issues  
she has raised about the way the independent  engineer apparently behaved when  he 
Ref: DRN10876572carried out the inspection. Even so I think Advantage is entitled to rely on what the engineer  
reported and his conclusion it was a total loss. 
Miss Es policy says Advantage will settle  the claim by paying  her the market value of her car 
at the time of loss. That sum isnt necessarily the same amount that she bought the car for or 
the cost to her of actually replacing  it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
Advantages valuation and offer. 
In this case its clear Advantages valuation of £1,800 was significantly higher than the 
average of the trade guide  prices  including those obtained by the investigator.  And I think  it 
adequately takes into account  the cars age, mileage and condition.
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Miss Es concerns, I dont think  I can 
reasonably require Advantage to increase its valuation or pay any more to her for her car.
Its clear Miss Es claim wasnt handled  well by Advantage in a number of respects. Its 
accepted this and apologised. Its also apologised for any unprofessional conduct  by the 
engineer. This has clearly  all caused Miss E some distress and inconvenience which  
warrants an award of some compensation. Mrs E says she suffers from health issues  which 
mightve exacerbated things for her but I have  nothing to suggest  Advantage was aware of 
them.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think a payment of 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss E has been caused  by the way 
Advantage has dealt  with her claim is fair. And although I understand her strength of feeling  
and frustration, I dont  think I can reasonably  ask it to pay her any more  than this.
Overall I therefore dont see any compelling  reason  to change  the proposed outcome in this 
case. I think Advantages apology and payment of £250 compensation has done enough to 
put things right and its fairly resolved Mrs Es complaint. .
Miss E has recently raised some new issues about  the level of her current premiums and the 
service shes now being given but she will need to contact Advantage about them in the first 
instance. I cant comment on them in this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Ref: DRN10876573Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1087657