K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that KL Law ltd failed to offer a reasonable  service when representing him in
a claim against his former employers.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 27 February  2020, which  is attached below and forms part 
of this decision. I firstly explained why I wouldnt be dismissing the complaint without 
consideration of the merits. I went on to explain that I intended to uphold  the complaint  
because KL Law hadnt provided the service that Mr M had paid for. Specifically, KL Law 
failed to attend an adjourned hearing for Mr Ms tribunal which  led to the tribunal being 
dismissed. I also felt that KL Laws actions in withdrawing Mr Ms first appeal,  not responding 
to communication  and communicating in an unprofessional manner has caused Mr M 
significant trouble  and upset. I intended to direct KL Law to do the following:
-Refund Mr M all of the fees he paid to KL Law (£5,410)
-Pay Mr M £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I asked both parties for representations by 27 March 2020. Mr M disagreed  with the 
provisional decision and said:
-£500 for trouble and upset is too low. Hes had four years of stress and has had 
serious health problems.
-He believes the outcome  of the court case wouldve  been  successful, so he should  
receive the full amount he was claiming  against his employer for. Or, if not, a 75% 
proportion as he believes he had a 75% chance of winning his tribunal had it not 
been for KL Laws error.
-He had to pay for his appeal and would like these costs reimbursed.
KL Law didnt receive the provisional  decision until 3 March and asked for additional time as 
well as a copy of the translation  of an email that hadnt previously been referenced. The 
email was from KL Law to Mr M dated 22 January 2016. This was sent to KL Law on 4 
March 2020 along with the evidence bundle included originally in the Legal  Ombudsmans 
investigation. At this point  the investigator asked KL Law if it needed more time to respond 
due to the delay in it receiving the decision. It asked for an extension to the end of June. 
KL Law hasnt provided any further  comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has submitted any additional evidence for me to consider. I have considered 
the comments Mr M has made, but these dont change my decision. Ill explain why.
Trouble and upset
I explained in my provisional decision  that I thought KL Law should pay Mr M £500 for the 
trouble and upset  its errors have caused. I understand Mr M has had some serious health 
issues, but I explained in the provisional  decision that Ive not seen enough evidence to 
suggest these  health issues were caused  by the service he received  form KL Law.  But I do 
understand the service wouldve made  him stressed. Especially when  looking at some of the 
Ref: DRN17902902unprofessional language  KL Law used when  communicating with Mr M. And it was clear  Mr 
M was very invested  in his tribunal, so when  KL Law missed the hearing I think  this wouldve 
caused Mr M significant stress.
Mr M also had the inconvenience of having  to hire different representation after KL Law had 
failed to act on his behalf. So, for the inconvenience,  poor communication,  upset and stress  
of the missed hearing, I think £500  is fair and reasonable.  
I understand Mr M feels he should  have more, but Im not looking at the delays caused  
during his complaint, but rather the trouble and upset KL Law caused  when providing the 
poor service.
Redress
I understand Mr M feels that he should  be awarded the full schedule  of losses from his 
tribunal case,  or at least  75% of this as he believes he had a high chance of winning his 
tribunal. I explained  in my provisional  decision that it isnt my role to determine whether 
Mr Ms tribunal wouldve been successful.  A court should decide that after a fully contested 
hearing. My role is to consider the complaint against KL Law.
KL Law didnt attend the adjourned tribunal hearing.  This meant that Mr Ms case  was 
dismissed. Its therefore too speculative to determine what the result wouldve been.  
Although we do know that Mr M wasnt successful in his later appeal. But I believe that 
KL Law negated  any value  in its service to Mr M by missing the hearing, and by withdrawing 
Mr Ms first appeal.  So, I think  the fair outcome is for KL Law to refund Mr M the fees he paid 
for its service  a total of £5,410.
Mr M has commented that Ive not awarded  interest on this amount. However, in this case I 
think thats right. Mr M instructed KL Law to undertake a service. Something I think he 
wouldve done, and paid for, in any event. The reason it is being refunded is that KL Law 
negated any value  it had added to Mr Ms case by missing  the adjourned tribunal hearing.  By 
awarding interest on this refund, it would be putting  Mr M in a position as if he never 
instructed legal representation. And I dont  think this wouldve been the case.  I dont think 
Mr M wouldve kept the funds he spent  on KL Law, I think  he wouldve instructed a different 
lawyer, or wouldve had a completed tribunal by KL Law if it hadnt made the error  which  
was the service Mr M paid for. So, I dont think that interest should  be applied  to the refund 
in this specific case.
Further legal costs
Mr M has said hed like KL Law to pay him the costs of getting later representation and to 
lodge his appeal. I can understand why he wants this, as he feels he wouldnt have had to 
do this had it not been for KL Laws error. But Mr M wouldve always  had to pay some legal 
fees. Its right to refund him the fees hes paid KL Law  as it didnt provide him with the 
service it should have. But I dont think it should  pay him for any other legal advice hes paid 
for. Mr M always  intended to bring action against his former employer, so wouldve always 
paid out for advice  and representation. As hes receiving the fees he paid to KL Law back,  I 
dont think it would be fair to refund him the subsequent legal  fees hes paid. This would in 
effect mean  he was getting legal representation  for free, which wouldnt be the position he 
would be in had the error  not occurred.
Ref: DRN17902903Neither party has given  me any new evidence to consider, so my outcome remains  the 
same. Im upholding  this complaint for the same reasons I set out in my provisional  decision, 
which is attached  below  and forms part of this decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  KL Law ltd must do the following:
-Refund the fees Mr M has paid it (£5,410)
-Pay Mr M £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17902904Copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mr M complains that KL Law ltd failed  to offer a reasonable service  when representing  him in
a claim against his former employers.
Background
In 2016, Mr M approached KL Law to represent him in an employment  dispute.  KL Law was
a claims management company (CMC) regulated by the Claims Management Regulator  at
the time.
Mr M had been dismissed by his employer and he felt this was unfair. KL Law represented
Mr M in liaising  with his former employer and preparing  the case for an employment tribunal
hearing. Mr M and KL Law corresponded in Polish.
The first tribunal hearing went ahead on 26 February 2016 but as the hearing didnt
complete in the day, a further  hearing was set for 22 June 2016. KL Law noted the court
date down incorrectly and didnt appear at the hearing. I note that a representative from
KL Law (Mr K) tried to telephone  in to the hearing, but the case was dismissed.
Mr M complained as he felt that his case was dismissed  due to KL Laws failings. I can see
that KL Law offered to lodge  an appeal  and did so, before withdrawing that appeal later.
Mr M has said he didnt give authorisation for the appeal  to be withdrawn.
KL Law admitted that it made an error in not appearing  in court. Mr K explained  that he had
personal reasons that caused  this error. He offered Mr M £3,000 to settle his complaint.
Mr M accepted  this amount  but later asked for his full fees back   some £5,410.  He also
complained about KL Law to the Legal Ombudsman. KL Law did not pay Mr M any
settlement amount.
Mr Ms complaint was accepted by the Legal Ombudsman.  An investigator at the Legal
Ombudsman investigated the complaint  and reached  a preliminary  decision. The case has
now been transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman
service) as part of the change in regulation  for CMCs.
When the Legal  Ombudsman  accepted Mr Ms complaint for investigation, KL Law argued
that the complaint should be dismissed.  Mr K explained  that an acceptable offer had been
made, so the Legal Ombudsman must dismiss the complaint. An investigator at the Legal
Ombudsman explained that the complaint  shouldnt  be dismissed, because to dismiss  under
this rule the offer had to have been acceptable, and open for acceptance.  But KL Laws offer
was no longer  open  for acceptance  Mr M had already accepted  it but KL Law had taken no
action to pay the offer  and didnt intend to do so. So the Legal Ombudsman concluded that
the complaint could be considered. KL Law disputes this point.
KL Law also explained that Mr Ms employment claim  had no prospect of success. It said
that Mr M ignored  its advice and didnt take a settlement offered prior to the tribunal.  It also
said that it was Mr Ms actions that caused the original hearing to overrun, and without these
actions, there wouldnt have been  a second hearing  to have to attend. KL Law did accept
that it missed the second hearing, but it said that there  was no prospect of success anyway,
and that it lodged an appeal free of charge.
The investigator at the Legal Ombudsman felt the complaint should  be upheld. She identified
the following service failings:
-A failure to respond to Mr Ms emails and requests for information
-The failure  to attend the adjourned court hearing
Ref: DRN17902905-Withdrawing  Mr Ms appeal without his consent.
The investigator recommended  that to settle the complaint KL Law pay Mr M the amount set
out in the schedule of loss submitted by the employment tribunal respondent (Mr Ms former
employer). This amounted to £9,110, as the investigator had assumed  a successful outcome
to the employment tribunal. She also recommended  KL Law pay Mr M £1,000 for the trouble
and upset its poor service had caused him.
Mr M accepted  the investigators findings but KL Law did not. KL Law made the following
points:
-Mr M wouldnt have been successful at the tribunal, particularly after it was found  that
CCTV evidence didnt exist.
-Mr M declined a settlement offer made by his former employer contrary  to KL Laws
advice.
-KL Laws  representative  Mr K  had personal reasons which led him to missing the
tribunal hearing.  But as there was no realistic prospect of success there has been no
financial loss.
-The ombudsman  cannot  take the place of a court in determining the outcome and
value of a tribunal hearing.
-Mr M expressly agreed that the appeal be withdrawn but changed his mind later.
KL Law reiterated its argument that this isnt a complaint that should be considered.
As an agreement hasnt  been reached the complaint has been passed to me  an
ombudsman at the Claims  Management Ombudsman  to review.
Ive reviewed the complaint  file thoroughly,  ensuring that all of the correspondence and
emails passing between the parties has been translated into English.  Ive arranged  for a
number of previously untranslated emails to be translated,  for me to consider.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dismissal
As this complaint was made to and accepted by the Legal  Ombudsman, Ive looked at it in
line with its rules and regulations. Having  done so, I do not consider this complaint should be
dismissed.
Section 5.7 of the Legal  Ombudsman  Scheme Rules say:
An ombudsman may (but does  not have  to) dismiss or discontinue all or part of a
complaint if, in his/her opinion:
a) it does not have any reasonable prospect  of success, or is frivolous  or vexatious; or
b) the complainant  has not suffered (and is unlikely to suffer) financial loss, distress,
inconvenience or other detriment; or
c) the authorised person has already offered fair and reasonable redress in relation
to the circumstances alleged by the complainant  and the offer is still open for
acceptance.
KL Law says, in summary;  that we should dismiss Mr Ms complaint by virtue of applying
section 5.7 (b) and (c). This is because it says Mr M hasnt suffered a financial  loss and,
Ref: DRN17902906Mr M accepted  an offer to settle this complaint of £3,000.
Mr M and KL Law should understand that it is within the ombudsmans discretion as to
whether to dismiss a complaint  so even if I were to determine that section 5.7 (b) and/or (c)
applied, whether  or not the complaint should be dismissed is still a matter within my
discretion. In this particular  case, the complaint  hasnt  previously been dismissed  because  it
was decided that Section  5.7 (b) and (c), relied  upon by KL Law,  dont apply to the particular
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
Ive considered the relevant  arguments again, and I agree  that Section 5.7 (b) and (c) do not
apply. My conclusion is that this is a complaint  that we should not dismiss but continue  to
investigate. Ill explain why.
Looking at section 5.7 (b) KL Law has said that Mr M has not suffered financial  loss. But
Mr M has paid a total of £5,410 for a service that he says he didnt receive. So I do think  hes
likely to have encountered financial  loss if KL Law has provided poor service. I think  its also
clear there may be other detriment here as a result  of KL Law not attending the court hearing
 as Mr Ms case was dismissed. I also think that as a result of KL Laws actions, Mr M may
have suffered distress  and inconvenience. So when looking  at section 5.7 (b) as a whole, I
dont think theres any reason that this complaint  should be dismissed.
With respect to section 5.7 (c) KL Law says that it has offered fair and reasonable redress
and that the offer  which it says was accepted by Mr M - is still open to him. I can see that
an offer was made in KL Laws final response letter to Mr M for £3,000 to settle this complaint. KL 
Law has said throughout  that this offer is open. So Ive thought  about whether
this offer is fair and reasonable redress. I dont think that it is. Ill explain in detail  below what
I do think fair redress is but I dont think £3,000 adequately  reflects the failures  in KL Laws
service to Mr M. The offer doesnt cover the fees that Mr M has paid, nor does it recognise
any distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mr M.
Mr M paid KL Law fees to represent him in an employment tribunal  claim. But it then failed to
represent him in an adjourned hearing because the representative at KL Law wrote the
wrong hearing date down.  The tribunal claim ended up being dismissed  some time later 
after KL Law withdrew Mr Ms appeal and Mr M resubmitted his claim.  For reasons  that Ill
expand on later in this decision, I consider  that KL Laws failure to attend this hearing
effectively negated any work that it did for Mr M, and so I dont think that I can conclude  that
a settlement amount  of less than the fees Mr M paid KL Law to represent him is reasonable.
So I dont think section 5.7 (c) applies here.
All the information  that has been provided  by both Mr M and KL Law on the issue of
dismissal has led me to conclude that this is a complaint that this service should investigate.
And whilst  it is entirely  in my discretion to dismiss a complaint, I consider that the grounds for
dismissal that KL Law feels I should rely on dont apply here,  on the facts of this case, for the
reasons Ive explained above.
So Im going to go on and consider the merits of this complaint.
Summary
Mr M instructed KL Law to represent him in a case against his former employer. I note that
Mr M entered  into an agreement,  a contract for the provision of professional claims
management services, and paid KL Law a total of £5,410 in fees, in a total of seven
instalments. These were  made  up of court fees and fees to KL Law for appearing in court, as
well as preparing the documents for the tribunal.
It is not in dispute that KL Law carried  out some  work for Mr M, or that KL Law failed to
attend the adjourned hearing.  So Ive considered  what effect this has had.
Ref: DRN17902907Settlement advice
KL Law has said that it had secured a settlement  offer for Mr M prior to the first tribunal date.
It said that it advised Mr M to accept this offer,  and that the only reason that the claim
proceeded to the tribunal was because Mr M declined  the offer made  by Mr Ms employer
(£5,000), contrary to the advice it provided. KL Law has said that this is confirmed within the
content of an email it sent to Mr M on 22 January  2016. Ive now had this email  translated
and have considered the contents carefully.
The email says the following:
Today they called and offered £5,000.
According to the instructions I declined  it, I made a counter-offer  £8,500.
I have an impression that £7,000 may be a final offer. I think that it may be worth it to
accept that amount; however, it is my opinion.
It needs to be taken  into consideration that you were  not looking for a different job
after losing yours, therefore  the Court  may reduce  the compensation that we want,
moreover, everything will be finished in one day. Although, they probably  will
postpone it to the next sitting, to set the amount of the compensation. Therefore, it
can still take a while until you see the money.
Please do not feel forced or pressured  to make any decision. I am only pragmatically
advising you what to do.
Lets remember there is also a risk of paying £950  for the sitting  if they do not exempt
you from the court  fee.
Please let me know what you think.
So I dont think theres evidence to suggest that KL Law advised Mr M to accept  the £5,000
settlement offer. And Im not entirely clear if the offer was ever put to Mr M before it was
rejected. It is clear that KL Law had rejected  the offer on Mr Ms behalf - presumably based
on discussions Mr M and KL Law had at some point. But KL Law hasnt pointed me to those
previous discussions, and nor does my consideration of its file demonstrate  that it had
previously advised Mr M to accept a settlement of, or even  around,  £5,000. The references
within the email of 22 January to a future, potential offer of £7,000 being  worth accepting,
and to Mr M not being forced or pressured to make any decision, suggest that the strategy
remained one of ongoing  negotiation. Critically, in my view, theres no reference to KL Law
advising, or having advised,  that the offer of £5,000 should be accepted.
So, having carefully  considered the evidence, I am not persuaded by KL Laws contention
that the case  only proceeded to the tribunal because Mr M declined an offer contrary  to KL
Laws advice.
First hearing
Mr Ms first tribunal  hearing  was on 26 February 2016. KL Law explained that at this hearing,
Mr M told the court that his statement (which it had filed on his behalf)  wasnt accurate. So
KL Law said it had to fully examine Mr M during the hearing, which it wasnt expecting. KL
Law said that due to this, the judge was confused and the allotted time for the hearing
wasnt sufficient. So a continuance of the hearing  was set for June  2016. KL Law says that
the hearing  wouldve  been completed  had Mr M not decided that his statement  was
inaccurate. KL Law also explained that the statement  it submitted to court was the one made
by Mr M but had been translated into English.
Ref: DRN17902908I understand that Mr Ms actions during the first hearing  may have been a surprise to KL
Law. But KL Law was representing Mr M, it agreed to represent Mr M at the second
(continuance) hearing also. Regardless of whether the hearing was adjourned due to Mr Ms
actions, he and KL Law were engaged in litigation,  with all the attendant uncertainties. It isnt
possible to predict, with any degree of certainty,  how long the tribunal process / hearings will
take. Crucially,  for me, KL Law agreed to represent Mr M  and to continue  representing
Mr M through  to the continuance of his adjourned hearing, so it is responsible for ensuring  it
did so.
Adjourned hearing
The adjourned hearing was set for 22 June 2016. KL Law was given these details.  Its
representative, Mr K, said that when he received  the date he was under some personal
stress and made  a mistake  listing the hearing  date down. KL Law therefore  had the
adjourned hearing date as 29 June 2016. And hes said that this is the reason  he didnt
attend. When  he was alerted  to the mistake he was in Poland so had no way of attending.
I understand that Mr K was under personal stress at the time,  but the business  KL Law 
was instructed to represent  Mr M and its entirely  reasonable for Mr M to expect  that it would
ensure that he had representation at the hearing. I also understand  that Mr M wasnt made
aware of when this hearing was  as he had asked KL Law but wasnt given  a response.
This meant  that he also couldnt attend.  From looking at the appeal KL Law put together, the
case was dismissed by the judge due to non-attendance.
KL Law has said that by the time this adjourned hearing came  about  Mr Ms case had very
little prospect of success. It said that the evidence  Mr M was relying on didnt exist, so when
it found  this out  in between the hearing dates   Mr Ms prospect of a successful tribunal
outcome reduced.  So it said that it didnt think there had been financial detriment caused  by
its mistake. Having looked through  all of the correspondence, I cant see that Mr M was
given additional advice after he found the CCTV evidence  he was relying on didnt exist.  If
KL Law believed  that there was such  a little prospect of success,  I wouldve expected it to
point this out prior to the adjourned  hearing. But I cant see that it advised  Mr M to do
anything differently,  or enter into any other negotiations  with his employer. So I dont think  it
follows that there has been  no financial detriment to Mr M because of KL Laws  mistake.
The Claims Management Ombudsman isnt the same  as the court. My role isnt to determine
what the employment  tribunal would have determined, after a fully contested  hearing. But,
rather, my role is to consider  what detriment has been caused to Mr M by KL Law failing to
provide the service itd contracted with him to provide,  and specifically in failing  to attend the
adjourned hearing on his behalf, or make him aware of the date.
I consider that its too speculative to say that Mr Ms employment claim would  have been
successful, so I dont believe KL Law should have to pay the schedule  of loss. I have to bear
in mind, reasonably, that the case had gone to a contested tribunal  hearing; Mr Ms
employer had only previously offered  to settle the case on terms which were unacceptable to
Mr M and significantly short of his schedule of losses; and there had been no intimation of
any improved offer prior to the second hearing  date. There doesnt seem to me to any clear
basis on which I could conclude that Mr M would  have ultimately been successful.
But because KL Law didnt  attend, and Mr M was denied  the opportunity to attend, provide
further evidence and argue  his case, he has suffered a clear detriment.  In short, the loss of
opportunity to have his claim determined.
Appeal withdrawal
When KL Law missed  the hearing date, it agreed to submit an appeal to the courts. KL Law
later decided  that a settlement would be more appropriate  between it and Mr M. In an email
dated 25 April 2017 KL Law said:
Ref: DRN17902909According to our telephone conversation  I am withdrawing the appeal  because  we know it
does not make sense and we are both at risk of further costs if the result is unsatisfactory
Later that day KL Law contacted the court to say that it is no longer representing Mr M in his
appeal. Less than an hour later it said that the appeal is withdrawn.
Mr M says he never agreed to his appeal  being withdrawn. Ive looked through  the
correspondence between  KL Law and Mr M and Ive not seen  anything to show that Mr M
expressly agreed for his appeal application to be withdrawn.  There arent notes recorded  of
the conversations  between Mr M and KL Law. And Mr M contacted the court shortly after he
was told by KL Law that the appeal had been withdrawn  to ask it to cancel this request.  So I
think its likely that Mr M hadnt consented  to the appeal being withdrawn.  In KL Laws email
to the court it said:
Most likely  the appeal will be withdrawn  today, we will notify the Tribunal  accordingly.
Instead we have  decided to resolve  any issues  arising out of the judgement between
ourselves
30 minutes after this email was sent, KL Law withdrew  the appeal. It appears that because
KL Law was willing to offer a settlement directly to Mr M, it decided that it would withdraw the
appeal without agreeing  this with Mr M first. I think this wouldve caused Mr M some serious
trouble and upset. Mr M has said that since this has happened, his health has deteriorated.
He said hes had to take anti-depressants and feels that the whole experience has impacted
this. Ive not seen anything to suggest the cause of his medical conditions was the way
KL Law has treated him, but Im satisfied that it would  have had an effect  on him. Mr Ms
emails to KL Law suggest he had invested a lot of time into his case, and he felt strongly  that
he wasnt treated fairly by his employer. So, I believe that his missed tribunal hearing, and
having his appeal withdrawn without his consent,  wouldve caused him considerable stress.
So, having considered the missed hearing, and subsequent appeal  withdrawal,  I think  that
Mr M finds himself  in the position that he would have been in had he never instructed KL
Law to make a claim  on his behalf to his former employer.  So I think it would  be fair for KL
Law to refund the fees that Mr M has paid it for this matter.
I think  that KL Laws failure to represent Mr M at the hearing effectively negates the value of
all of the initial  work that had been done for this claim which is rendered valueless with the
dismissal of the claim.
I understand KL Law will disagree  with this, and that it believes the second hearing  wouldnt
have been necessary had Mr M accepted the statement he had submitted  in evidence.  But
for the reasons Ive explained above it is too speculative  to determine  what  would  have
happened. We know  the claim  was dismissed  when Mr M wasnt present or represented,
and we know  that this was due to an error  by KL Law. And we know that Mr M has been
unsuccessful - subsequently, litigating on his own behalf - in appealing the dismissal of the
employment claim. So, in my view Mr M should be refunded the fees hes paid KL Law for
his employment claim.
Communication
Mr M has complained about a lack of communication from KL Law. He explained  he sent
multiple emails that werent responded to, and wasnt kept updated about  his claim.
Ive looked through many of the emails between Mr M and KL Law.  And I can see a number
of emails from Mr M werent responded  to  particularly  when he was asking about  hearing
dates.
Ive also seen  that KL Law sent Mr M emails with language that wasnt professional. For
example, KL Law responded to requests  for updates with:
Ref: DRN179029010I am not your errand boy. I have noticed  for quite some  time that you seem to think  that I am
at your beck and call.
Mr M was paying KL Law for a service, and should expect to receive  updates, responses
and professional language. But this wasnt always  the case. So, I think Mr M should  be
compensated for the poor service hes experienced here, as I think this couldve caused him
some trouble and upset.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I think that KL Laws error, in missing the tribunal  hearing, has
meant Mr M hasnt received  the service  hes paid for. I also think that KL Laws  actions in
withdrawing Mr Ms appeal, not responding to communication and communicating  in an
unprofessional manner has caused Mr M significant trouble and upset. So KL Law should do
the following:
- Refund  Mr M all of the fees hes paid KL Law (£5,410)
- Pay Mr M £500 for the trouble and upset it has caused him.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I intend to recommend KL Law ltd
pays Mr M the award as set out above.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1790290