K821x#15complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  about Ageas Insurance Limited  declining her claim for water damage to 
her home under her buildings insurance policy.
background
Mrs T made a claim after finding  water  damage to her bedroom wall. Ageas sent out an 
inspector to review  the damage and validate the claim. The report from the inspector said 
there was no sign of storm conditions to cause such damage. Ageas said the storm 
definition within the policy hadnt been  met. It also noted Mrs Ts own contractor  didnt say 
the damage had been caused  by storm. Ageas  declined the claim based on this and said the 
damage had been  caused gradually. Mrs T didnt  accept this and brought  her complaint to 
this service. She said that when the inspector reviewed the damage at her property shed 
been given the impression her claim would be accepted.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said there had been  a storm, the damage was 
consistent with storm,  and the storm had been  the cause of the damage.  Our investigator 
said Ageas  should  deal with the internal repairs. She said If Mrs T has already paid to have 
the work  done  Ageas should refund her those costs  plus 8% simple interest per year from 
the date of claim to the date of settlement. Ageas didnt accept this and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When this service looks at storm damage  cases we ask three  questions:
were there storm conditions on or around  the date of the claim?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Ageas said the answer to this question  is no. But I dont agree  I think  the answer  is yes. 
Its clear that there was very heavy  rainfall consistent with storm conditions. So I dont think 
its fair and reasonable for Ageas  to insist the amount of rainfall has to meet  its much  higher 
policy definition. I dont  think  the definition Ageas is trying to apply is in line with what  the 
insurance industry would  consider reasonable. I think  if Mrs T was insured with most other 
insurers her claim  wouldve been considered  as a storm. Ageas  policy  definition  levels are 
also higher than what this service accepts constitutes a storm.
In regard to question two the answer is yes. Its clear that the rainfall  got into the house  and 
caused the water damage to the internal bedroom wall. So the damage  is consistent with 
damage caused by a storm. Ageas  didnt  accept that a storm had occurred.
Finally, were  the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  Again  I think  the answer 
to this question  is yes. Its clear that water got into the property following the storm and 
caused the damage. This point seems to be accepted by the parties as no other explanation 
for the water damage to the internal wall has been  provided. Ageas has said there was 
Ref: DRN13853712deterioration to the lead on the roof. However,  that isnt what  Ageas inspector said when  he 
visited the property.  He said there wasnt  a storm.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay for the repairs linked to the internal water damage claim;
if Mrs T has already paid for the repairs then Ageas should  refund her the costs for the 
repairs for the internal water damage claim.  If this is the case it should also pay 8%* 
simple interest per year from the date Mrs T made  the claim to the date of settlement.
*If Ageas considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest,  they should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs T a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1385371