K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained Tesco Personal  Finance Plc, trading as Tesco, lowered  the limit on his 
credit card account without advance  notice. 
background
In May 2019, Tesco sent Mr T a letter saying they would be reducing  his credit limit, from 
over £7,000 to £3,075. The letter said the change  was with immediate effect. Tesco said the 
reason for the change was following a review to make sure credit limits were suitable for 
their customers.
Mr T accepts Tesco can reduce his credit  limit however he complains  that they did not give 
him sufficient notice before the change  was made,  and he says this negatively  impacted him. 
Tesco say they acted in line with the terms of the account  Mr T was sent a letter and his 
online banking service  and mobile  application were updated immediately which let him know  
about the change.  However  Tesco accepted that when Mr T complained,  he was given 
incorrect information about when the notification letter was sent and paid compensation for 
this. 
Mr T complained to our service and the investigator did not uphold  the complaint, saying 
Tesco acted  fairly  and in line with their terms and conditions. Mr T disagreed.  He says he 
received Tescos letter a few days after it was sent and after his credit limit had already been 
reduced. He believes Tesco could have  made  him aware by other faster  means  such as 
text message or email. 
Mr T also says the change in credit  limit exposed him to the risk of going over the limit which 
couldve had a negative  impact on him such  as additional fees and adverse information on 
his credit file. He says Tesco should  give him compensation for the trouble and stress he 
was put to in checking  all his other  accounts,  as he was concerned  recent transactions could  
cause him to go over the new, lower limit on his Tesco card. He considers Tesco has treated 
him unfairly  and this practice needs to be stopped. 
So the matter  has now been referred  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I will not be upholding 
this complaint and Ill explain  why.
Whether or not Tesco  was entitled to reduce  Mr Ts credit limit is not in dispute. Mr T accepts 
they were able to do so. His complaint  is that he didnt get advance  notice  of the reduction 
and he doesnt  think this is right. 
Firstly, it is worth saying  that financial businesses such  as Tesco  dont generally  have  to give 
notice to their customers about  decreasing credit limits. And Mr Ts account terms provide  
for notice  not to be given before a credit limit is changed. 
However when such  changes are made, I would expect Tesco to consider what  impact the 
reduction will have on the customers  overall  ability to manage  their finances. In the event 
there are any concerns or indications  that the credit limit change may result  in financial 
Ref: DRN10316702difficulty, I would expect Tesco to invite the customer to contact  them and direct them to 
sources of free and impartial debt advice. I have  read the letter Tesco  sent to Mr T and I am 
satisfied they have done this.
I dont find that Mr T has been  disadvantaged because of the credit  limit reduction.  I have 
considered Mr Ts credit  card statements  immediately before and after the credit limit 
change. I can see the balance was within the credit limit and his new transactions didnt go 
over the limit. Also, neither Mr T nor Tesco have  mentioned any transactions were  declined. 
I can see Mr T was not charged any over limit fees so I cant  say he has suffered any losses  
as a result  of the credit limit reduction.
Even if Mr T had gone over the credit  limit, Tesco said in their letter, outlining the credit limit 
change, that no fees for this would be applied for that month. So I dont agree with 
Mr Ts opinion that reducing his limit was their way to profit from him going over his credit  
limit.
I can see Tesco paid Mr T £50 compensation following them  giving incorrect  information 
about when the letter was sent.  I believe this was a fair amount of compensation for the 
confusion they caused. 
This service isnt the regulator  so its not for me to tell Tesco or the wider industry how they 
should operate. As Mr T has pointed  out, Tesco do have a duty to treat their customers  fairly 
 they cant do whatever  they like. In this case, I have concluded  that Tesco have treated 
Mr T fairly and he hasnt lost out as a result of what happened.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1031670