K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection  plan (TMPP).
background
In 2005, during a meeting  at a Halifax branch, Mr O took out TMPP cover alongside a 
mortgage to protect  his repayments in the event of disability and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mr O disagrees with our 
adjudicators view. Mr O mainly says that he was made to believe he had to take out the PPI 
 but he didnt need it as he had other means to rely on if he couldnt work. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint. Heres why I say this.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr O to recall in detail what  was said when he arranged  
the PPI  so what  he says about  the way he was sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to 
be able to uphold  his complaint. I have to look at all the available information and take into 
account the wider  circumstances. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mr O arranged to sign up to the TMPP. But 
this service has seen examples of various  forms Halifax used to sell the TMPP to customers  
who took out PPI in a Halifax branch around the time Mr O did. We think  the TMPP 
paperwork wouldve made it clear  to customers that it was up to them to choose if they 
wanted PPI as part of a TMPP. 
Ive also seen some of the mortgage  paperwork,  including the mortgage offer that Halifax  
sent Mr O. This clearly  says that he didn't have to take out any PPI with his mortgage. 
Mr Os mortgage was a major  financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. His 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date  and he alone  
was responsible for making the monthly  repayments. So, I can see why Mr O mightve felt 
PPI was useful. 
Its completely understandable if Mr O has forgotten this now.  But, taking into account  all this 
information, I think its likely that Mr O wouldve known at the time that PPI was optional. And 
it was added to his mortgage when  he chose to take it out. 
Halifax advised Mr O to take out the PPI and it looks like it was suitable  for him based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances when the policy was sold.  
Ref: DRN18829532Mr O was eligible for the cover. He had some  sick pay entitlement  through work. But this 
doesnt mean PPI wasnt suitable for him. The policy wouldve paid out for longer  than he 
couldve depended on getting sick pay through work  - up to 12 months each time Mr O 
claimed successfully. And he couldve made repeated claims. So PPI provided long term 
protection for his mortgage.  PPI wouldve protected Mr O if he was disabled or too sick to 
work and paid out on top of any work benefits.  Bearing in mind that Mr O mightve  also had 
some additional  costs if he was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled,  I think  this 
couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr O if he lost his job unexpectedly  and was out of 
work.
There was no guarantee when  he took out his mortgage that Mr O would always have 
savings to rely on as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.   
Ive taken carefully into account  the information  Mr O has sent us that shows  he had other  
insurance that he says wouldve helped him pay his mortgage. But I think its fair to say that 
if Mr O had other protection  already in place it probably provided cover  for other things he 
already had set up. This means its unlikely his mortgage  wouldve been protected  without 
PPI to cover the additional monthly  cost.  And the paperwork Ive seen suggests  his other 
insurance and pension policies provided  different  benefits and paid out in different 
circumstances. They didnt duplicate the benefits or protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments in the same way as the PPI. So, looking at all the information  he sent us and 
told us about,  I cant  reasonably say that Mr O didnt need PPI. I find that it was suitable for 
him.  
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if Mr O was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think more information  about policy  exclusions and limitations 
wouldve made any difference  to Mr Os decision  to take out PPI. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr O wouldve found the PPI cost difficult  to afford when he 
took it out. And, bearing in mind  that he chose  not to buy other insurance offered under the 
TMPP when he took out the PPI, it looks to me like he just bought the cover  he was happy to 
pay for. He wouldve been  able to see the monthly  PPI cost mentioned on his mortgage 
offer.
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr O still wouldve  decided to buy the PPI if hed been  better  informed as it gave him 
useful and worthwhile  protection in his particular situation. I dont think having  better  
information wouldve  stopped him buying  it. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr O has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view.  I appreciate  he feels  
very strongly  about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come  as a 
disappointment. In my decision Ive dealt with all the main points hes raised that have an 
impact on the outcome  of his complaint and I hope  that setting out the reasons as Ive done 
will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Looked at overall, it doesnt  look as if Mr O has lost out as a result of anything  Halifax did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN18829533my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1882953