K821x#15complaint
Mr R says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr R took out a total of nine loans with Mr Lender  between March 2014  and September 
2018.
Loan Amount Date borrowed
Date repaid
1 £400 22.03.14 14.07.14
2 £500 24.07.14 15.08.14
3 £1,000 03.09.14 18.02.15
4 £1,000 21.04.15 16.10.15
5 £150 02.11.15 07.11.15
6 £800 21.12.15 07.04.16
7 £300 01.06.17 16.06.17
8 £500 03.08.18 24.08.18
9 £300 22.09.18 -
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint in part. He thought loans 3 to 6 shouldnt have been 
given. So he recommended that Mr Lender refund all interest and charges that Mr R paid on 
those loans, with interest  on the refund. And he said it should remove  any negative  
information about those four loans from Mr Rs credit file. 
After it received the adjudicators view,  Mr Lender offered to do as the adjudicator had 
recommended, but only in relation  to loans 4, 5 and 6. Mr R wasnt  happy with Mr Lenders 
offer, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN17326332the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
The repayment on loan one was a significant sum,  but Mr Lender asked Mr R for details  of 
his income and expenditure before it agreed to the loan. And it carried out a credit check. 
I havent seen  the full results of the credit check,  but Mr Lenders told us that they didnt 
show any adverse information  such as accounts  that had entered  a defaulting or delinquent 
status within the last three years or evidence of any IVAs or Bankruptcy.  And I am also not 
aware of any adverse  information of this nature that would have been  on Mr Rs credit file at 
the time of the loan. And based on the figures Mr R provided, it would have  looked  as if he 
could afford  the repayment. So taking everything into account, I dont think  Mr Lender was 
irresponsible to make  loan 1.
Mr R had to defer repayment of loan 1 three times.  And applied for loan 2 ten days after 
finishing repaying loan 1. But Mr Lender asked him for details of his monthly income  and 
expenditure when he applied for loan 2. And its told us that Mr R told it that his monthly  
take-home pay was just over £2,000, and his total expenditure, including  other short-term 
loans, was £550. 
I think the checks that Mr Lender  carried out were proportionate at this stage of Mr Rs 
borrowing. And it was entitled  to rely on the information that Mr R provided, in the absence  of 
anything to suggest that it might not be reliable.  On the basis of that information, it would 
have looked as if Mr R would be able to afford the repayments  on loan 2 relatively easily.  So 
I dont think Mr Lender was unreasonable to make loan 2 without carrying  out more  detailed 
checks.
Ref: DRN17326333As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 3 and 4 would most likely have 
shown that Mr R was having problems managing his money.  This is because:
Loan 3 was the third loan Mr R had applied to Mr Lender for in less than six months. And 
although hed repaid loan 2 early,  he applied for loan 3 less than three weeks  later. 
Whats more, loan 3 was for twice as much as the previous loan. And Mr R was going  to 
need to sustain  repayments  that would take the best part of a quarter of his declared 
monthly income every month for six months.
So I think that when Mr R applied for loan 3, Mr Lender ought  to have taken steps to 
verify the information  that Mr R provided independently.
Ive looked at Mr Rs bank statements  to see what its likely that Mr Lender  would have 
discovered if it had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks before making 
loan 3. Mr R had taken out a significant  loan with another short-term lender just days 
before applying  for loan 3. And he was carrying  out numerous gambling transactions  
every month, which between them took a large  proportion of his salary.  
And the situation hadnt  improved by the time he applied  for loan 4. By that time, Mr R 
had been borrowing significant  amounts from Mr Lender for more  than a year.  And the 
longest break between loans had been  just over two months.  So I think  Mr Lender  ought 
to have realised that Mr R wasnt managing  to keep on top of his finances without 
resorting to further borrowing  to cover the holes  left from repaying his previous loans, 
and his indebtedness was continuing  unsustainably.
Mr R wasnt making  any real inroads to the amount  he owed Mr Lender. Its true that 
loan 5 was significantly less than Mr Rs previous loans. But the fact remains that he 
applied for it less than three  weeks after repaying loan 4. And I dont think that Mr Lender 
could reasonably  have assumed that the lower  loan amount meant that Mr Rs finances 
were back on track.  As it was, loan 6, taken out the following month,  took Mr Rs 
borrowing from Mr Lender  back up to £800.  And by the time he took out loan 6, hed 
been borrowing from Mr Lender for 21 months.  Mr R had been paying  large  amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 to 6 inclusive, and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
But like the adjudicator, I dont think Mr Lender  was irresponsible to agree  to loans 7 to 9. 
There had been  a gap of more than two years  between  Mr R finishing repaying  loan 6 and 
applying for loan 7. The repayments  on all three loans were a relatively  small proportion  of 
Mr Rs declared  monthly take-home pay. And given  the information that Mr Lender had 
about Mr Rs circumstances when  he applied for the last three loans,  I dont think it would 
have been proportionate  to ask him for the amount of information that would  have been  
needed to show  that the borrowing  was unsustainable. 
There wasnt anything in the information that Mr R provided or the information  that 
Mr Lender should  have been  aware of, which meant that it would have been proportionate  to 
start independently  verifying what Mr R was saying.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans 3-6;
Ref: DRN17326334pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 and 4 from Mr Rs credit file;
the length of time Mr R had been  borrowing from Mr Lender with no significant 
breaks means any information recorded  about  loans 5 and 6 is adverse. So all 
entries about those  loans  should be removed from Mr Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part. PDL Finance Limited should 
pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1732633