K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  has overcharged him for two of his three home 
insurance policies.  
 
background
Mr C owns three properties. Two are in the same road  one of which is his main  residence 
 and the other is a property he rents out in a completely different area.  Mr C insured all 
three properties with Aviva. 
1.Policy 1 (main  residence)  incepted  October  2015. Renewal price 2018 - £479.26
2.Policy 2 (property in same road)  incepted October 2018 with premium of £234.83
3.Policy 3 (rental property, different area)  incepted June 2009.  Renewal price - 
£389.51
Mr C took out policy  2 in October 2018  and immediately noticed that it was much  cheaper 
than the renewal price  hed paid for policy 1 so he complained to Aviva.  He said the 
properties were very similar so couldnt understand why he was paying  so much for to insure 
one of them. He also complained that policy 3 was much more expensive than policy 1 too, 
particularly as it provided cover for buildings only whereas policy 1 covered him for buildings  
and contents.  Mr C said he wanted a refund of what hed paid Aviva over the previous two 
years for policies 1 and 3. Mr C also complained  about the customer service  hed received 
from Aviva  when he raised his complaint. 
Aviva looked  into Mr Cs complaint. It said itd referred his complaint to its pricing team  and 
could confirm the prices  charged for all three prices were correct.  It said that despite two of 
the properties being on the same street they were different types  and attracted their own 
individual rating factors. It said some rating factors  used were unique to each property so 
this meant  they couldnt be directly compared. It said it couldnt go into specific details about  
how it priced its policies  because that was confidential business  sensitive information. But it 
said the premiums it had offered him had correctly followed its own pricing  strategy.
Aviva apologised for the shortcomings in service  Mr C received and offered him 
compensation of £40 for any inconvenience itd caused him. 
Unhappy with Avivas  findings, Mr C complained to this service.  Our adjudicator  investigated 
his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators  
findings. He said it wasnt acceptable for an insurer to charge over 100%  more for a similar 
property in the same road nor was it acceptable  for insurers to offer to renew an existing 
customers policy at a price much greater than the discounted price offered for a new policy.  
He said he hadnt  accepted the compensation offered by Aviva  of £40 and instead thought 
£100 was more appropriate. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN15783952Its important to understand that this service  doesnt have a remit to assess pricing 
methodology generally, such  as considering whether products represent good value for 
money. So we generally accept  that insurers can charge what they like for insurance so long 
as they act fairly. In simple terms, that means that they should  apply  their chosen pricing 
model consistently so long as the consumer  has flexibility  to shop around and change 
insurer if they wish.  Im satisfied thats the case here. Mr C might think that Aviva  has 
overcharged him for policies 1 and 3, but its for Aviva to decide  which  factors  to take into 
account, how they should be rated and adjust its premiums accordingly. Mr C had the option 
to shop around for alternative cover  if he wished and I note that is what  he did in the end. 
So I cant tell Aviva what price it should charge to cover the risk of insuring  three different 
properties. Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks  there is of them needing 
to make a claim and its wider commercial requirements. What this service can do though, 
when a consumer  complains about  the price they have been charged, is look at whether the 
insurer has treated the consumer fairly  and whether it can explain why its charged the price 
it has. We can then explain to the consumer  that weve  checked  the price  theyve been 
charged and are satisfied  that theyve been treated  fairly  and in line with the way that the 
insurer has treated all its other customers with similar risk profiles. 
Aviva has provided us with business sensitive information relating to Mr Cs policies. Im 
afraid Im unable to share that information with him because its confidential. But Id like to 
reassure him that Ive checked it very carefully.  I can see that policy 2 came with a 
significant new customer discount which wouldnt have been included  in the renewal price 
for policy 1. Policy 1 also includes  personal  possessions cover whereas policy 2 doesnt.  
These two factors go a significant way to explaining the difference in price charged for the 
two properties  on the same  road.  New customer discounts are discretionary and arent 
something this service can interfere with. 
And policy 3 is for a property in a completely different locality  and is rented out by Mr C. So 
the relevant rating factors that apply  to that property  cant be directly compared to those 
Aviva applied to the other two properties. 
So having  checked the data provided by Aviva, Im satisfied  that Mr Cs three policy  
premiums were calculated in line with its own internal guidelines and that its treated him 
fairly and in line with the way its treated other customers  with similar risk profiles.  
Ive thought too about Mr Cs comments about  the insurance industry and his request to 
refer his complaint  to the industry  regulator. I appreciate  he thinks  its bad industry practice 
for insurers to offer new customers  big discounts  they dont offer their existing customers. 
But I can only look at the individual  circumstances of his complaint. As he is aware, this 
service isnt the industry regulator and I cant look at generic, industry  wide issues  within  the 
context of his complaint.  Thats  the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority.  
Finally, Ive thought  about Mr Cs complaint  about  the poor customer service he received 
during his phone calls with Aviva. I think that Avivas apology for the shortcomings in its 
service and the offer to pay him compensation of £40 for the inconvenience he was caused 
as a result  is fair. Indeed,  Im unlikely to have awarded him any more than that had the 
complaint passed  across  my desk without an offer having been already  made.  So I dont 
think I can reasonably recommend that Aviva pay him any more. 
Ref: DRN15783953my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019. 
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1578395