K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  Vanquis Bank  Limited  (Vanquis) defaulted her account  without  telling her 
and theyve failed  to send her a statement of her account.
background
Ms B came  to us as she was unhappy with the response from Vanquis  to her complaint. 
Vanquis didnt  uphold the complaint and said after agreeing to an instalment payment plan 
on 29 April 2015 for £58.15  a month  Ms B made no payments in May and June 2015 so they 
wrote to her on 3 July 2015 stating shed broken the agreement. They  said they received no 
contact from Ms B so a Notice of Default was issued on 18 July 2015 and due to the missed  
payments, her account was then passed to a debt recovery agency  on 5 August  2015. 
Vanquis said although Ms B had been  making  payments  to her account online they werent 
enough to satisfy the Notice of Default and no contact was made  to set a further payment 
plan. Vanquis told Ms B they usually default  an account once the account has defaulted  for 
210 days and here due to the arrears on the account, a default was applied on 28 
September 2018. Although the Notice of Default was issued on 18 July 2015,  the account  
didn't default  until 28 September 2018 due to insufficient payments being made to your 
account. Vanquis said making  insufficient payments can delay  the amount of days  the 
account has been in arrears and they were  satisfied the default  has been registered  
correctly.
Overall our investigator thought he couldnt  say Vanquis hadnt acted fairly and reasonably in 
applying the default to Ms Bs account and recording this on her credit  file. He thought, as it 
appeared Ms B made no payments in May and June 2015 - and she couldnt send proof to 
the contrary - it would be expected for Vanquis  to send a notice of default.  And as the 
payments Ms B made werent in line with what was expected Vanquis  were  right to apply  the 
default when it did. He was satisfied Vanquis  had passed Ms Bs account to a debt recovery  
agent and theyd made a number of attempts to contact  Ms B using the same contact 
number and address  provided to this service.  
Ms B told us the view was totally unacceptable. She thought  Vanquis  had cost her a job in 
the finance sector and she now had to work  at a much reduced wage due to the default. She 
said the cost to her of this was approximately £8000  a year income, unless Vanquis 
removed the default as she asked.  And more  recently she sent us a copy  of the payment 
history for the Vanquis account  retrieved from her credit reference  file. She said this 
demonstrated at the time Vanquis  registered  the default in September  2018  there  were  no 
missed payments and the balance was reducing every month. She said this had now been 
paid off but Vanquis hadnt updated  it or removed the default. And she told us she was still 
waiting for a statement, not having  had one since August 2018, despite making a request  for 
one 6 weeks ago. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that this isnt a complaint which I can properly uphold. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from the records Vanquis have sent me that after agreeing a payment plan in 
April 2015 for £58.15  a month  payments werent made in line with that - the next recorded 
payment on 3 July 2015 is of £10. The default  notice was sent on 18 July 2015 and it wasnt 
Ref: DRN17470892satisfied by the required date. I can see that although further payments were  made  to the 
account overall these  were insufficient  and below what  were required under either the 
payment plan or contractually.  Im also satisfied Vanquis passed the account to a debt 
recovery agency using  the same contact details for Ms B they held  which  are also those 
currently in use by this service - and attempts to contact Ms B are recorded.
Ive looked carefully  at the recent information  Ms B sent to us. Although  the extract  doesnt 
openly state it relates to this account  Im willing to accept it does as the outstanding 
balances each month match those on other records. But Im afraid  this information doesnt 
change my view. It shows the balance  remains  unchanged in May and June  2015,  
supporting Vanquiss  position that no payments were made  then, which triggered the default 
notice of 18 July 2015. Also although,  as Ms B says,  the balance can be seen to steadily 
reduce its not by the agreed amount in the payment plan, or what  was contractually  due, or 
what was requested in the default notice  by the set date. The default notice letter  Vanquis  
stated a payment  of £58.15 by 5 August 2015  was required  and if Ms B didnt take the action 
required before  that date then further  action  may be taken against her.
So overall, for the same reasons as the investigator I dont think Vanquis  have  done  
anything wrong  here, so I wont  be asking them to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1747089