K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the increases in his premiums  in the later years, on his home  
insurance policy, held with Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G).
background 
Mr Hs held his home  insurance policy with L&G for a number of years. 
In 2007, due to flood  damage, Mr H claimed  under the policy. The claim for flood  damage  
totalled around £116,000.
In 2010, Mr Hs circumstances changed. He moved abroad but remained as a landlord for 
the property. In June  2010 the policy was changed  to Landlord Insurance. It still consisted 
of Buildings and Contents but also included Legal Expenses and Rent  Guarantee. 
In 2011, Mr Hs home insurance renewal cost £1,009.14.
In 2013, Mr H contacted  L&G to inform  it of the flood defence improvements that had been  
made to the property  since the flood in 2007  and sought a reduction in premium. Mr H says 
he only received  an acknowledgement email  but no response.
In 2015, Mr Hs premium had increased  to £1,185.99. In 2016, the premium cost £1,386.11 
and in 2017 it cost £1,569.23.
Mr H was unhappy with the later increases  and considers that the flood defence  
improvements made to the property should lead to a reduction in his premium and not an 
increase.
Mr H says that L&G have  increased the premiums without justification.
Mr H also says because other insurance companies will not insure  properties  located in a 
flood risk area, it has led to property  owners  being  vulnerable to, and subjected to, the type 
of action that he has been subjected  to (premiums increasing unfairly).  
So Mr H doesnt think he has been treated  fairly by L&G.
L&G say that in 2010, when Mr H changed  his policy to Landlord  Insurance,  had he applied  
for the insurance  as a new customer it wouldnt have been able to offer him cover  given 
the flood risk associated  with the location of the property and the previous claim. But L&G 
say as Mr H was an existing customer, it continued  to offer cover  but in accordance with 
the risk it says was associated with the property.  
Ref: DRN10845042Broadly summarised, L&G says it reassessed  the risk in the later years.  Given  the location of 
Mr Hs property L&G say it was considered at high risk of flood. It says this was the main 
factor in Mr Hs premium increasing. 
Because it had revisited the risk, and to mitigate  any significant increases in Mr Hs 
premiums, L&G capped  the increases in the years 2014  2018, to around 10  15%. Its aim 
was to start to bring the policy  cost in line with the risk L&G say was now associated  with 
insuring Mr Hs property.
Our adjudicator thought L&G hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. As Mr H disagrees, the 
matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done,  I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. I know  this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr H, so Id like to explain  why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
Second, each  insurer, in determining its policys costs,  is entitled to form its own view of risk 
regarding things such as flooding. And from this, it decides the costs associated with the 
risk. Insurers  often  use independent organisations to help determine flood risk ratings  
associated with properties or areas.  Insurers will typically,  over the years,  revisit  and 
reassess the risk  using more up to date and refined models.  I appreciate Mr H might not 
agree with L&Gs risk assessment but ultimately  it is L&Gs decision as to how much  risk a 
property represents  and in turn the cost it sets for the insurance.  
Mr H is mainly unhappy that his policy premiums  went up in the later years  despite not 
claiming on the policy since 2007  and completing  some additional work on his property to 
reduce the risk of flooding / flood damage.
I do understand why Mr H is unhappy. Mr Hs circumstances have not changed since  the 
flood in 2007, so as he had completed some  additional work to reduce the risk of flooding / 
flood damage I can understand why he thought his premiums would decrease  rather than 
increase. But I cant  say L&G has unfairly  increased  the premium,  Ill explain why.
L&G have said, when  Mr H changed  to Landlord Insurance in 2010, if he had been  a new 
customer its underwriting criteria would have meant he would have been declined  insurance. 
But because Mr H was an existing customer, it continued to provide insurance   but at the 
risk associated at the time. 
This is fair, and it also seems that Mr H wasnt unhappy with the premiums around the time 
he changed to Landlord  Insurance;  it was the later premiums  Mr H was more  concerned  
about and the increase on those later premiums.
Ref: DRN10845043Mr H was also unhappy that he provided information about the work completed to L&G in 
2013 and didnt get a response.  I can see from L&Gs system notes that it tried to contact  
Mr H by phone and then also by email to request an updated risk assessment of the 
property. The notes  from 2013 go on to say that L&G would consider  any risk assessment 
provided and if it differed  to its own risk assessment it would look see if anything further 
could be done  in respect of the premium  charged.
Presumably the e-mail communication wasnt received by Mr H, as it appears  nothing further 
happened  with both parties  not following this up. But I dont think this makes a difference  to 
the outcome as L&G has provided its reasons as to why Mr Hs premiums  increased after 
this time.
In the years  after 2013, L&G reassessed the risk. After reassessing the risk  which it is 
entitled to do, L&G considered Mr Hs property was at a high risk of flooding.  And the 
premiums it considered it should charge  because  of that risk, were more than what  L&G 
were currently charging Mr H.
In 2015, for example, after taking away the Legal Expenses and Rent Guarantee from the 
overall premium, Mr Hs Buildings and Contents cost around  £1,000  for the year. L&Gs  
updated assessment  of the risk had the premium  cost for Buildings  and Contents  at around 
£1,500 for the year. So L&G werent charging Mr H the true cost of the risk it associated  with 
insuring the property. 
It wouldnt have been fair for L&G to jump Mr Hs premium up so significantly and so quickly  
 so it increased the cost slowly, steadily bringing  the premium up to the level it now 
associated with the property. 
So, from what Ive seen,  there seem to be legitimate  risk related reasons for the premium  
increasing. And L&G slowly increased the cost of Mr Hs policy  rather than immediately 
charging Mr H what  it considered to be the true cost of insuring his property. Overall that 
seems fair.
As I said earlier,  I do understand  why Mr H was concerned that his premium increased in the 
later years. But I hope my decision now explains to Mr H and brings peace of mind  as to why 
I consider L&G has acted fairly.
I appreciate Mr H, because he says insurers will not insure properties  in flood risk areas,  
feels he is effectively trapped, leaving him no choice but to pay the increased  premiums. But 
as Ive said, I dont  have the power  to tell a business what its insurance  should cost. In this 
case, Im satisfied that L&G have shown that the increases in Mr Hs premiums are for 
genuine risk related reasons. 
Ref: DRN10845044my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1084504