K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Mr B says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him this PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time as well as the policys benefits, limitations  and exclusions) arent 
disputed. So I wont repeat all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt  think we should  uphold  it. However,  they thought Santanders offer to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission  and 
profit share Mr B paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Santander should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Santanders  offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  
On balance, I think Santander probably  made it clear enough that Mr B didnt have  to take 
out the PPI and that he himself chose  to take it out. 
I say this because  I note that his mortgage  had already been  running for around 5 years 
without any PPI attached. We know the PPI was added when Mr B was rearranging  his 
financial affairs in 2008. By definition therefore, its logical to say that Mr B would have 
probably known  that having PPI was optional, rather than compulsory.
The PPI was sold over the phone and due to the passage  of time theres no recording left, 
but this isnt unreasonable given when it was. However, Ive seen a few sales like this one 
and we have a copy of the telephone  script that Santanders agents were told to follow 
when dealing with consumers like Mr B at the time.  I think the likelihood is that Mr B was 
asked about PPI and he agreed to it during that call. 
Ref: DRN16042642A central  theme of the complaint is that Mr B says he didnt agree, and he didnt  receive any 
confirmation of a sale. But I dont think this is right because  Ive been sent a copy  of a 
welcome letter about the PPI, from August 2008, which  outlined  the costs involved and 
what Mr B could  do if he wanted to change his mind. I also think hed have needed to set up 
a direct debit to transfer the monthly PPI premiums from his bank account. 
I accept that Mr B may genuinely  not remember this now,  but in my view,  it represents 
reliable evidence that he would have known  he had a choice and that he took out the policy 
because the cover was something he wanted to have. I think  at the time Mr B wanted to 
protect his mortgage  repayments against losing his job or becoming too ill to work. In my 
view, he probably  provided  his consent and could see the policy had been  set up for him. I 
note he went on to cancel  it after year or so.
This wasnt an advised  sale and so it was for Mr B to decide for himself  what  he wanted to 
do. Santander had a responsibility to provide clear information to allow him to make that 
decision.
Its certainly possible Santander could have explained the policy  in more detail than it did, 
although I can see there was some  information  about the price  and other  key features of the 
PPI. So I think Mr B probably had enough information to decide what he wanted to do. Even 
if I accept more could  have been  done  by Santander  to explain things, I dont think this 
makes any difference  to my overall decision.
This is because I think Mr B was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the cover, at £20.96 per 
month, seems affordable for him and the PPI would have paid £347 each month  for up to a 
year if hed needed to claim. Looking at Mr Bs job and general circumstances, I think  this 
would have been useful. The evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. There  was nothing about his 
employment or occupation which  would  have made  it difficult for him to claim.  
Overall, I consider that Mr B would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could have 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time.  I also think  
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Santander  should  have disclosed  the poor value and explained 
the significance  of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Bs representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
Ref: DRN16042643mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander should  have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt  tell Mr B about the high levels  of commission and profit share  paid in this 
case. So taking  into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Mr B was unfair under section 140A  of the Consumer Credit Act because  
Santander didnt  tell him about  the high levels of commission  and profit share in this 
case 
I dont think Santander  acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr B because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr Bs representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin  judgment  and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr B should get back all the money he paid for the policy  
because: Santander failed  to tell Mr B about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say 
that meant  the policy was poor value,  I should find that Mr B wouldnt have taken out the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN16042644policy had they known about  the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr B in order  to remedy the unfairness  caused by Santander not disclosing the high level 
of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude  that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Santanders  failure  to disclose the level of commission  for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Santander to calculate  compensation in line with the FCAs guidance  
and return some of the money Mr B paid for his PPI policy.  I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves  Mr B with the policy  Ive concluded  above  
he would  still have  taken  out if Santander  had done everything it should have done  but 
with lower commission and profit share  levels.
So I consider that Santanders offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission  
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest  where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Ref: DRN16042645Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Bs complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
However, because  of the non-disclosure of commission and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr B an amount  equivalent to the commission and profit  share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus  associated  interest  where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1604264