K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest)  mis-sold him a        
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Mr A in May 2000 
alongside a mortgage. The MPPI policy protected Mr As mortgage repayments in the event  
he had an accident,  was sick or unemployed. The mortgage and policy ran until September 
2005.
Mr A says that the MPPI  policy was mis-sold.  He says through  his representative, that it was 
not made clear  the policy was optional. He says he had enough employee benefits and 
savings and so didnt need  the cover.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint about the sale of the policy.  Here are my 
reasons:
This has been a difficult complaint for me to consider as I havent been  able to see all of 
the sales documentation that would  have been  used  at the time of sale. I have though 
considered what  I know  of sales that happened  at that time involving Natwest and also 
read Mr As recollections. 
I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr A and Natwest.  Its completely 
understandable that Mr As recollections  are not detailed as the sale took place many  
years ago. And because  of this and considering what I know of sales carried  out by 
Natwest at that time, I dont think the evidence is strong  enough for me safely  to say 
Natwest didnt explain that MPPI  was an optional feature.  So I dont uphold  Mr As 
complaint regarding this. I havent seen enough to conclude  otherwise.
Moving on, I need to consider whether Natwest provided advice to Mr A or not during the 
sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure the policy was 
suitable for him. But on looking  at the very limited information provided and also taking 
into consideration of what  I know of Natwest  sales during  this time, I dont think advice 
was given. Natwest still had to ensure that it provided information to Mr A in a clear,  fair 
and not misleading way however,  so that he could make an informed decision on 
whether he wanted the policy. 
Ref: DRN15295242And based on the information Ive seen,  I cant be entirely  sure that Natwest  did provide 
clear information to Mr A. That said, I am not sure he would  have acted differently (that 
is, not taken out the policy) if he had been properly informed.
I say this after considering Mr As circumstances at the time of sale. Mr A says he had 
over 12 months worth  of sick pay and savings, but the amount of sickness benefits he 
says he received from his employer is higher  than what we would normally  see. So our 
service asked for information  but Mr A has not provided further  details about  this. I think  
its more likely Mr A did receive  sick pay but I havent seen enough evidence that it was 
as high as Mr A says it was. 
The MPPI policy would have paid out if Mr A was sick in addition  to his sick pay and 
savings. Having the policy in place would  mean  Mr A could use his sick pay and savings 
to cover other expenses. I dont think Ive seen  enough that I can reasonably  say that he 
wouldnt have had at least some use for the policy. 
Mr A was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits, such 
for someone that had a pre-existing medical condition.  It is unlikely  he needed better  
information about the policys exclusions and limitations and if he had received clear 
information on these  terms  I dont think it would have put him off.
 
Finally, I havent seen enough  that would suggest to me that Natwest disclosed the costs 
of the policy  in a clear  way, but even  if it did, I dont think Mr A would have done anything  
differently for the same  reason  as I have already given.  Ive also seen nothing  to suggest 
it was unaffordable.  So overall, I think it unlikely Mr A would have made a different 
decision about whether to take out PPI if better  information  had been  provided.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale,  but based  on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1529524