K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  unfairly declined  his claim for accidental  
damage to his mobile phone. He made  the claim under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr D took out a Barclays travel insurance  policy. The policy  is underwritten  by Aviva,  so 
Aviva is responsible for the claim and also this complaint. For ease, I will simply refer to 
Aviva throughout my decision when referencing the actions of the businesses  involved.
Mr D says his phone was damaged during a trip abroad when he accidentally dropped it. In 
September 2018, five days after his return home, he made a claim for baggage  he had lost 
during that trip. But he didnt mention the damage to his phone at that time. He made  the 
claim for his phone about two months  later,  and when  doing so he told Aviva  that he had 
obtained a quote for the repair about a month after his return. 
Aviva declined Mr Ds phone claim. It explained that it was concerned  the claim hadnt been  
made sooner, and by the period of time that had passed between  his return and when he 
obtained a quote for the repair. Aviva  also highlighted  a policy term which  explains that 
claims must  be notified as soon  as possible. Aviva  concluded there was no evidence to 
show the phone had been damaged during the insured trip.
Mr D complained to Aviva  about its decision.  He explained that he took the policy out for lost 
and stolen items, so he wasnt  aware he was also covered for accidental damage, and thats 
why he didnt make the claim sooner. He said he only later became aware he might  be able 
to claim under his travel insurance  policy, when speaking to someone who worked in the 
insurance industry.
Aviva maintained its position. In addition to the concerns it had already raised, it said if Mr D 
was unaware of what his policy covered, he could have queried this when he made  a claim 
for his missing bag. It also said the onus was on him to make sure he was aware of the 
terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr D remained  unhappy, so he referred his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  
by one of our investigators. But our investigator  concluded that she couldnt fairly ask Aviva  
to cover Mr Ds claim because the timeline didnt suggest the damage had occurred during 
his trip. Mr D disagreed,  so his complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
Mr D has since  provided a repair quote which says the phone was damaged whilst he was 
on holiday. In addition, hes said he has holiday photos on his phone which shows he took it 
with him. Mr D has also raised concern that our investigator didnt ask for photos to prove his 
phone was damaged; he said shes simply believed what he and Aviva  have  said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18018642Its not disputed  that Mr Ds phone is damaged, or that he took it on his trip abroad.  So we 
dont need to see documentary evidence to support  either of these things. What I need  to 
decide here is whether, in view of the information available, Avivas  decision to decline 
Mr Ds claim was fair and reasonable.
Its for Mr D to show that, on balance, an insured event caused the damage to his phone  or 
in other  words, that the damage was accidental and happened during his trip. What he says 
is evidence of this. However, there was a significant  period of time between  Mr Ds return  
and the reporting of the claim. In my view,  this delay leads to a reasonable concern that his 
phone may have been damaged after he had returned from his trip, rather than during  it. 
Furthermore, having carefully  considered  all the information provided  by Mr D, Im not 
persuaded his explanation alone, about the delay,  is enough  to satisfy those concerns.
Where the wider circumstances dont  necessarily support what the insured says  as is the 
case here  I consider  it reasonable  for the insurer not to simply accept the claim. In this 
scenario, the onus  is then on the insured to further support their claim,  to tip the balance in 
their favour. I do appreciate that Mr D will have  found it difficult  to do this, but that doesnt 
mean Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably by not accepting his claim. 
Nonetheless, Mr D has since given us a copy of a handwritten repair  quote  on headed paper 
which says the damage  was caused  whilst he was on holiday. So Ive considered whether 
this document  does  now show that, on balance, the damage occurred during his trip. If the 
quote was indeed written after Mr Ds return,  but before he made  the claim for his phone,  
that would  in my view add some  weight to what he says. However, the quote  is dated 
September 2019, rather than September 2018. 
I consider it unlikely that someone would have  mistakenly written  2019 if they had written the 
quote in September 2018; and more likely  that they have made that mistake because they 
wrote it recently, in January 2019  (after our investigator had issued  her findings). As such, 
Im not persuaded I can reasonably rely on this document.
So having  considered all the information  and arguments presented,  Im not persuaded Mr D 
has done enough to show an insured event caused the damage to his phone  and Im 
satisfied Aviva hasnt unreasonably declined his claim. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1801864