K820x#14complaint
Mr G makes a number  of complaints about Barclays Bank UK PLC following a cheque 
deposit into his account.
background
Mr G received a cheque payable to him in US dollars that he wished to pay into his Barclays  
account. He called Barclays in late 2018 to find out the charges he would pay and says he 
spent over two hours on the telephone to it. He says he eventually  received information on 
the exchange rate that Barclays  applied that day and its charges and sent the cheque  to it 
with a letter asking  Barclays  to contact him if his assumptions were wrong about the 
charges. Mr G says he wanted to know the difference between the rate Barclays used for the 
transaction and the international rate and was given a rate that day that he calculated  to be 
very close to that international rate. He says he took that to mean that on the day his cheque 
was received he would receive  an exchange rate within that same margin.
Mr G says the cheque  was received by Barclays on 24 December 2018.  But he received an 
exchange rate of 1.377 US Dollars to Sterling which  he calculated at about 8% difference to 
the published rate that day and meant  that he received about  £2,000 less than he was 
expecting. Mr G accepts  the rate could fluctuate  and he couldnt receive a fixed rate but he 
asked Barclays to contact  him if the rate percentage difference was more than the difference 
he was given when  he first called. Mr G says that the cost is daylight robbery and also 
complains about  the lack of promised call backs from Barclays and its customer  service.
Barclays says it gave  Mr G the indicative rate of the day when he called and told him that 
rate would change. It says its rates vary constantly  and made that clear on a number of 
occasions to Mr G. Barclays accepts  shortfalls  in its service by not phoning Mr G back as 
agreed and has paid £230 compensation and has offered a further  £500.  It says Mr G 
contacted it again in early 2019 and it was agreed  the cheque would be sent to a local 
branch. And at that stage  Mr G could  have cancelled  the transaction if he was unhappy  with 
the exchange rate.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our adjudicator accepted Barclays  didnt handle  parts  
of the complaint as it should. But she thought Barclays had acted fairly by paying  
compensation and by making a fair and reasonable offer for further compensation. The 
adjudicator thought Mr G asked Barclays  to contact him if the transaction fee was more than 
.25% and that he could  have cancelled the transaction when he called in early 2019.  She 
thought the account terms and conditions made clear that Barclays isnt responsible  for 
losses caused by exchange rate differences.
Mr G doesnt accept  that view and in summary says he didnt ask for a fixed  exchange rate 
but wanted to know  what Barclays margin was. He says he didnt know  when he called in 
early 2019  that Barclays had charged such an exorbitant  exchange rate and questions how 
he could know what the charges would  be. He would like the loss of £2,000  refunded by 
Barclays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr G will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened.
Ref: DRN13060402I have looked  at Mr Gs account  terms and conditions which  I think  he would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can see that those terms and conditions  make clear 
that Barclays isnt responsible for losses caused by exchange rate differences. So in those 
circumstances I dont  think  Barclays has made a mistake here or acted  unfairly. I will explain 
why I dont think it misled Mr G when he called it.
I have listened  to the calls between the parties and Im satisfied that Mr G wanted to know  
the charges for processing his cheque. Im satisfied he was given that information.  And Im 
also satisfied that Mr G was told on a number of occasions that the exchange  rate 
information couldnt be given and that he accepted that was the case.  I think its clear that Mr 
G wanted to know  what the exchange rate would have  been that day and to compare it to 
the published rate that day. I can see that Mr G was given that information eventually.  But I 
think that Mr G then made the assumption  that Barclays exchange  rate would be within that 
same percentage difference when his transaction was processed.  
I dont think at any stage  Barclays  staff suggested or told Mr G that was the case  or that it 
kept its rate within a certain percentage of the actual rate. So I dont think Barclays ought to 
be responsible  for Mr G making  that assumption. Im satisfied that its up to Barclays  when 
exercising its commercial  judgement to decide  upon  the rate it applies at any given time. I 
appreciate that its very difficult for a customer to know in advance  what  rate would be 
applied. But Im satisfied  Mr G chose  to proceed  with the transaction.
I have looked  at the letter Mr G sent to Barclays with his instructions. And I think  Mr G told 
Barclays to process the cheque and said that he understood what  the charge would be 
(.25%) and that the exchange rate of the day of receipt would be applied.  So I dont think 
Barclays made a mistake in those  circumstances as I think  that is what  happened. I dont 
think any variance in an exchange rate can properly be described  as a charge. And in any 
event I dont think it would have been  reasonable for Barclays to have contacted Mr G before  
processing the cheque even if its process was different  to Mr Gs understanding as set out in 
his letter.
There is no question here that Barclays made mistakes in its dealings with Mr G. I accept it 
didnt call Mr G back as agreed and then called him in the middle  of the night.  I also accept 
Mr G spent some time on the telephone  to Barclays which would have caused 
inconvenience. But Im satisfied Barclays total compensation offer is fair and reasonable. I 
appreciate that Mr G may not wish to accept that offer and so I will leave  it to him to decide.
Ref: DRN13060403my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint. I also find that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has made  a fair and reasonable  offer of a further  £500  
compensation. Mr Gs acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1306040