K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Miss A and Mr W say West Bromwich Building Society (WBBS) mis-sold  them  the 
PPI.
background
Miss A and Mr W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. This policy provided cover  
for both of them for accident, sickness and unemployment. In 2009, they amended the policy 
to cover just Mr W.
They paid a monthly amount for the PPI. As this was initially  a joint policy, if either of them 
had made  a successful  claim, the policy would  have paid out the relevant  proportion of the 
repayment benefit for up to 12 months  worked out based on the percentage of their salary 
for the whole  household income.  Once  the policy changed to provide cover for just Mr W in 
2009, any successful  claim  he made  from that point would have paid out the full monthly 
benefit for up to a year.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss A and Mr W disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss A and Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate  this will come  as a disappointment to 
Miss A and Mr W and I will explain my reasons for reaching this decision.
Miss A and Mr W have said they were  told they had to take out the PPI to get the mortgage. 
WBBS says that having  the PPI was a condition of getting the particular  mortgage  that 
Miss A and Mr W took, which included a cashback  payment. WBBS  wasnt prevented from 
making PPI a condition of applying for the mortgage   as long as it made  this clear to 
Miss A and Mr W. It would then be up to Miss A and Mr W to decide whether to accept that 
offer, including taking  out PPI, or explore  getting a different mortgage   with WBBS or 
someone else  without the PPI, if they wanted.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage  offer which shows that PPI must be taken out for the 
duration of time that this particular mortgage  is in place. I think its likely Miss A and Mr W 
would have read the forms carefully when they received their offer as they were  taking  on a 
new financial  commitment, secured against  their home.  And so I think  its more  likely that 
they applied for the mortgage knowing that the PPI was compulsory and a condition  of 
taking out this particular mortgage. And I think  its more likely that they chose to go ahead 
with this particular  mortgage because of the cashback it offered.
Miss A and Mr W have said they werent given any option of other mortgages with WBBS  
and so they didnt know they could get a different mortgage without the PPI. I dont know 
what was said in the conversations with WBBS, so I cant  be certain what details about 
Ref: DRN18664562other products were given to Miss A and Mr W. But from what  Ive seen on the paperwork 
supplied it appears  Miss A and Mr W had previously had their mortgage with a different 
company and transferred it to WBBS. So I think they would have known that they could go 
to another lender if they didnt want the products being offered by WBBS.
So on balance, based on everything Ive seen  and been told, I think WBBS made  it clear  
that the policy  was compulsory on this mortgage and Miss A and Mr W agreed to this as a 
term of the mortgage.
WBBS recommended  the PPI to Miss A and Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover,  
such as unusual working arrangements or suffering from a medical condition of which  they 
were already  aware.
And it seems they had a need  for the cover. From what they have told us, Mr W would have 
received full pay for up to six months  if he was unable to work  due to accident or sickness 
and Miss A would have  only received  statutory  sick pay if she was too ill to work. But this 
policy would have paid out the monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months which  would be in 
addition to, and potentially for longer  than,  any sick pay they would receive. And it would 
provide cover for the same length of time if they were  to lose their jobs. As Miss A and Mr W 
didnt appear to have had any other means with which to make  their repayments if they 
werent working, I think they could have found  this benefit useful.
Its possible that not all the information  WBBS  gave  Miss A and Mr W about the PPI was as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means WBBS  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A and Mr W.
But WBBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A and Mr W because: 
WBBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss A and Mr W about that. Because WBBS didnt tell 
Miss A and Mr W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, WBBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
WBBS has to pay back to Miss A and Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. WBBS  should also pay back  to Miss A and Mr W any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
WBBS should pay back to Miss A and Mr W the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. WBBS should also 
pay Miss A and Mr W 8%* simple interest on each payment.
Ref: DRN18664563*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss A and Mr W can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so West Bromwich  Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A and Mr W.
But West Bromwich Building Society does  have to pay back  to Miss A and Mr W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1866456