K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that a new car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) isnt fit for purpose as its not achieving the 
advertised fuel consumption.  He says he believes the car is faulty.  Alternatively,  Mr D says 
that he was misled by the advertising  literature  about the cars fuel consumption.
Ref: DRN12618642background
In November 2017 Mr D acquired a new car via a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. Mr 
D says he chose to this particular model of car as a member of his family  had recently  
purchased the same  car and he had been  impressed with its fuel consumption.  He says the 
cars brochure advertises the car has a fuel consumption  of 55mpg.
Mr D says that shortly after he started driving  the car he complained to the dealership  about  
the cars  fuel economy. He says he was told to wait and see whether this changed over time 
and that he should not rely on the on-board fuel consumption readings as they were  
inaccurate. The only way to check fuel consumption would be to undertake  a road test.
Mr D complained again to the dealership about  the cars fuel consumption in February 2018. 
The dealership took the car for a 100 mile test drive, driving both on the motorway  and on 
urban roads. The result  of the test drive was that the fuel consumption  was within  tolerance  
of the manufacturers  specifications.  The dealership was unable  to find any fault with the car.
Mr D took the car to another dealership for the car to be tests in April 2018 which  again  
could find no faults with the car.
In June 2018 Mr D complained to VWFS. He said he was only achieving  on average  33mpg. 
VWFS didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  It said that the car had been tested and two 
dealerships had been unable to find any faults.  VWFS also said that the tests undertaken for 
the advertised mpg were  standard across the industry and were to allow consumers to 
compare different makes  and models of cars  fuel consumption. However,  these tests were  
done in controlled conditions  that didnt simulate  many of the variables that will affect fuel 
consumption when actually driving.
Mr D complained to this service. He said that he didnt agree with the findings of the first 
dealerships road test for the cars  fuel consumption as he had done his own test in the same  
way and achieved  33mpg  on average.  He said he still believed  the car was faulty as a family  
member with the same make and model  of car was achieving better fuel consumption than 
he was.
VWFS offered  to have the car independently  inspected. Both the independent  engineer and 
Mr D drove  the car. The engineer reported  that nothing untoward was noted  with Mr Ds 
driving style that would have a detrimental effect on fuel economy. The engineer also noted  
that he could find no patent defects with the operation of the vehicle that would  have a 
detrimental effect on the fuel economy.
After the test drive  the engineer noted  that the on-board computer showed an average of 
33mpg for the mileage  covered by the test. The engineer noted that the mpg figure  quoted 
by the manufacturer was 55mpg but said these  figures were achieved  in strictly controlled 
scientific conditions and that this road test was unscientific and the mpg figures achieved 
would have been influenced by the road, traffic, weather, tyre and speed 
conditions/changes.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She said that no 
fault could be found with the car and she wasnt able to say there was anything  wrong  with 
the fuel consumption  of the car.
Our adjudicator said that the mpg that appeared in the cars brochure clearly  stated they 
were for illustration purposes  only and did not represent what  could be achieved  in real 
Ref: DRN12618643world driving conditions.  She said she didnt think that VWFS had acted unfairly  in not 
upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said that his family had two cars of the same 
make and model and the other  car achieved reasonable fuel consumption.  He also said that 
if the mpg advertised in the brochure  cant be produced then it was unfair  that VWFS used 
these figures.
As the parties cant  agree the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr D has raised two issues  in his 
complaint which  are he thinks that the car is faulty  and/or  the fuel consumption  figures 
provided in the cars brochure are unfair  and misleading.
Looking first at whether  the car has a fault, Mr D says that as the family has two identical 
cars achieving different  fuel consumptions  then this car must be faulty as its mpg is much  
lower. But Ive seen  the car has been inspected  by two dealerships and an independent 
engineer and no faults were identified. Mr D says the independent engineer told him the mpg 
was too low but that isnt in the report. The engineer has recorded there was nothing wrong 
with the car.
So, although  I appreciate the two cars are achieving different fuel consumption  figures, I 
cant reasonably  say this means Mr Ds car is faulty or not fit for purpose. There can be a 
number of factors that influence fuel consumption and not just driving style. Im satisfied on 
the evidence Ive seen that the car is of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose.
Ive seen that Mr D complains he can only achieve  an average of 18 to 27 mpg and the sales  
brochure gives a figure  of 55mpg. Under the legislation if Mr D was told something that was 
untrue, and if this led him to enter into the credit  agreement, then VWFS would be 
responsible and it would be fair for me to ask it to do something about  it.
Ive seen that Mr D informed the independent engineer that he had been told the car would 
achieve 55mpg  though he hasnt raised this point as part of his complaint to this service. I 
dont know what was said at the time Mr D was discussing taking a credit  agreement out for 
this car but I think its likely he would have been  shown the cars sales  brochure. However, 
looking at the brochure Ive seen  that its clear  the fuel consumption figures  were  achieved in 
laboratory conditions  and would not reflect  real world driving. The purpose  of the figures  
was to allow the customer to compare different cars performance undertaking the same test. 
So I dont  think its reasonable to expect  the car to achieve the fuel consumption figures  
contained in the sales brochure  when so many other factors  such  the road,  speed,  weather 
etc. will have an impact on the cars  mpg. And I think this is made clear in the sales  brochure 
so this information isnt misleading.
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Im satisfied that the car 
isnt faulty and that he wasnt misled  by the fuel consumption figures provided in the sales  
brochure. 
Ref: DRN12618644my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.  
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1261864