K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy regarding their dealings with HSBC UK Bank  Plc in relation to a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Background 
Aspects of the complaint have  developed over time but, essentially, I gather  there are now 
three main elements to it. Firstly, in response  to Mr and Mrs Ps mis-sale  complaint, HSBC 
offered to repay  a proportion of the premiums relating  to high levels  of commission and profit 
share. Mr and Mrs P would like to know whether we think the offers  fair before they accept 
it.
Secondly, Mr and Mrs P believed they could no longer  have benefitted from the policy  once 
theyd made  the last of their unemployment claims and the maximum benefit had been paid. 
So they wanted a refund of the premiums they believed  theyd  overpaid.
Thirdly, Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with the way in which HSBC  had dealt with their 
complaint and the amount  of time it had taken it to do so. They wanted £150 as 
compensation rather than the £25 HSBC initially offered.
Most recently, our adjudicator looked into the complaint  and recommended that it be upheld  
but only in part. Thats because she didnt agree that HSBC  had done anything wrong 
regarding elements one and two of the complaint.  But the adjudicator did find that HSBC  
should pay more  compensation and got its agreement to offer £50.
Among other  things, Mr and Mrs P wouldnt agree to accept less than £87.50 for the third 
aspect of their complaint.  So the case was passed to me to review afresh. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain  why.
HSBCs commission  and profit share  offer
As the adjudicator recently explained, were satisfied HSBCs working out its offers  in 
relation to commission and profit share correctly. I appreciate Mr and Mrs P might  not think  
theyve been offered  enough compared  to how much theyve paid in premiums for the PPI 
but HSBCs only paying them  back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premiums they paid. 
For example, when Mr and Mrs P paid their last premium of £38.61  in 2014, the commission  
rate was 66%.  So HSBC would only pay back about  £6.18 of that premium. And the level of 
commission and profit share before  2014 was lower  than this, and at times below 50%, so 
HSBC will have paid back even less (if any) of the premiums they paid in that period. 
Ref: DRN12270752Overall, Ive no reason  to believe  the offer paid by HSBC  hasnt been calculated correctly  or 
fairly.
benefitting from the policy after claiming
Mr and Mrs P believe they could no longer have benefitted from the policy once  theyd made 
the unemployment claims they had. They believe HSBC should have told them  this and 
given them the opportunity to cancel the policy after the last claim ended.
Looking at the policy terms that would  have applied, both at the time of the sale and when 
the claims were made, I cant see theyd have operated as Mr and Mrs P suggest. From 
what Ive seen, the policy limited the number of monthly benefits payable  per claim to 12. 
However, it also allowed  Mr and Mrs P to claim again if theyd been back to work for six 
months or more. There was no limit to the number of claims they could  make.
In addition, the policy included disability cover, which  allowed  Mr and Mrs P to claim if they 
became unable to work due to disablement. This benefit was also unaffected by the claims 
Mr and Mrs P had made for unemployment.
Taking everything into account,  I dont agree that Mr and Mrs P lost out as a result of the 
policy continuing beyond  the last of their claims as they could  still have benefitted from it.
compensation for HSBCs  handling of matters and delays  
Its rarely  a straightforward  task deciding how much, if any, compensations due for non-
financial loss such as distress and inconvenience.
In this case, both parties agree HSBC could have dealt with things  better than it did and that 
some compensation should be paid. Where theres still disagreement is in what  amount that 
should be.
 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs P feel strongly  that HSBCs let them  down. And theres no 
question that HSBC could have handled matters better than it did. For example, there  was a 
long delay between  Mr and Mrs P sending their letter of early  May 2018 and HSBC 
responding in mid-August 2018.  That said,  HSBC  has apologised for its actions and agreed 
to increase its initial offer of compensation from £25 to £50.   
Overall, I think HSBCs offer to Mr and Mrs Ps fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. I require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay £50 in total as compensation for the inconvenience and upset  its handling of this 
matters caused  Mr and Mrs P.  
Ref: DRN12270753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 December 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1227075