K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that Regency Insurance Brokers  Limited (Regency) mis-sold  him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy he took out in June 2009. Mr S selected the 
policy when he visited Business As comparison  website. 
background
Regency says its not responsible for dealing with Mr Ss mis-sale complaint because it didnt 
sell him the policy. It says Mr S completed the purchase of the PPI when he applied for the 
policy on Business  As comparison  website.  
Business A also says it didnt sell Mr S the policy. It says it acted  as an on-line platform  to 
help Mr S compare similar  PPI products  before he made his decision  to buy a particular PPI 
policy.
In my provisional decision dated  22 March 2019 I looked at two questions:
Did Regency sell the PPI, or was it sold by another business, Business A?
Was Mr Ss policy mis-sold?
On the question of who sold the PPI, I carefully  considered evidence  and information 
provided to us by both Regency and Business A. I thought it was most likely that this was a 
sale where Mr S was expected to make  an informed choice about whether to buy the PPI, 
based on the information he found  on Business As comparison website. So I considered  
that Regency was aware  that it was responsible  for the sale of the policy. And even  though 
the sale began when Mr S selected  the PPI cover he wanted on Business As website,  it was 
still necessary to have  Regencys  involvement  to complete the sale.  I also took into account 
that Regency received a monthly commission from the policy insurer  following  the sale. 
On the question of whether the PPI was mis-sold, I concluded there wasnt  enough  for me to 
make a finding that the product wasnt right for him. Mr S told us that he thought  hed bought 
a policy  that would cover him until he was 70. Ive seen that the policy  provided  cover until 
he was 65 and that Regency  gave  him notice of when  his cover was going to end  although 
Mr S said he never received such notification.  And from what  Id seen, Mr S would have 
been able to benefit from the cover had it been necessary for him to make a claim on the 
policy up until he reached 65.
developments
Regency confirmed  that it had received my provisional decision and has also told us that it 
accepts my finding that it was responsible for the sale of the policy but that in this instance I 
did not consider  that the policy had been  mis-sold. 
Mr S disagreed with my provisional decision. I will summarise his reasons as follows:
1.That another business is also responsible for the sale,  having taken over the 
administration of the policy in 2010.  
2.That its wrong of me to assume that Mr S would have seen information on Business As 
website at the time showing that cover would  end when he reached  65.
Ref: DRN174557823.That he didnt receive a letter from Regency in May 2016  informing him that his policy  
would end when  reached 65. 
4.That he received  a letter from Regency  one day after hed reached age 65 so by then it 
was too late for him to buy further  cover to cover  him up to the age of 70. 
5.That he is unhappy to now be left without cover and is concerned  that due to the recent 
diagnosis of a medical condition, his ability to continue working might be in question. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr S has made, considering  them alongside my 
provisional decision and the evidence and information  I reviewed when preparing  it. 
Ill deal with each  point in turn:
1.Mr S is correct  that another business  has taken responsibility for the sale.  Given  that 
Regency ceased trading, we have been dealing with that business in relation to Mr Ss 
complaint. However, because the sale took place between  Mr S and Regency I have 
continued to refer to Regency for the purposes  of looking  into the complaint. 
2.I appreciate that I cannot know exactly what Mr S saw on-line when he purchased  the 
policy via Business As website. This is why I pointed out that I had seen only a sample 
of the key facts  information from the time. I also looked at the policy  document. From 
these, Id seen  that the policy benefit  would be paid up to age 65, but not later.  I 
appreciate that more  recently other insurance  providers have offered cover  up to the age 
of 70, but as I said in my provisional decision,  at the time of the sale cover  up to that age 
was less common.
3.I said in my provisional decision that Id seen a letter sent to Mr S by Regency in 
May 2016 to advise  him that his cover would  be ending soon. Mr S says he didnt receive  
this letter. I think its reasonable to assume  it was sent to him, and note that its correctly 
addressed. But as I said in my provisional  decision,  I think  its very likely  that Mr S was 
already aware,  or ought to have been aware,  that cover  would  end when he reached 65 
when he bought the policy.  
4.I appreciate that Mr S says he received a letter from Regency confirming the end of 
cover after hed reached 65. But for the reasons  Ive given, I think  Mr S ought to have 
been aware by that time that his cover  would have  expired.  
5.Im sorry  to learn of Mr Ss medical condition  and realise that not having  cover at this 
time is a source of concern to him. But in view of the findings  Ive set out here and in my 
provisional decision, my view remains that the policy wasnt  mis-sold at the time he took 
it out in 2009.
Ref: DRN17455783It follows that having responded to Mr Ss points, and noted  Regencys acceptance of my 
provisional decision, I will not be revising  those  findings. 
I realise this outcome will be frustrating for Mr S, especially  given that his complaint has 
been with us for some time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Regency  Insurance Brokers  Limited was responsible for the sale of 
PPI to Mr S. But I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1745578