K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with her claim for 
assistance under her travel insurance policy.  
My references to AXA include its agents.  
background
Miss T was on holiday with her teenaged daughter Miss T2. Unfortunately,  Miss T2 fell ill 
with a severe ear infection the day before they were due to return  to the UK. Miss T 
contacted AXA and Miss T2 was admitted to hospital. 
Miss T was concerned about the medical  treatment  Miss T2 was receiving, which  included  
being put on a drip. She told AXA about this and that they would need a new hotel. 
AXA arranged for a new hotel. Miss T wasnt happy  with the standard of that hotel, the food,  
lack of internet  connection and the distance  to the hospital. AXA said that as it was peak 
holiday season there was little availability. 
Miss T was unhappy with the communication from AXA and said this increased her stress at 
a difficult time. AXA did arrange  for new flights home, but at short notice with a taxi going to 
the wrong hotel.  She complained. 
AXA accepted that that Miss T had to speak to many different people  while  abroad and that 
it would  have helped  for it to give her a case manager as a single contact point. Had it done 
so shed not have needed to contact it so many  times. It explained it had chosen  the hotel 
based on information from its travel agent  and availability at the time. It said sorry for not 
giving Miss T the high standard  it strives  for and that feedback  had been given with the case  
handlers. It paid £250 compensation  to Miss T for distress and inconvenience. 
Miss T wasnt  satisfied with AXAs response and came to us. Our investigator  thought  that 
AXA had offered a fair settlement and sent a very detailed opinion letter responding to her 
concerns. Miss T wasnt happy with the response and spoke to our investigator  with her 
reasons. Miss T also sent us her phone records of the calls shed made  to AXA.  Our 
investigator offered  to send them to AXA but Miss T said the records were to show  the times 
shed been kept on hold.  As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaints been referred 
to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Miss T has asked to speak to the ombudsman reviewing her case. Ive 
listened to her call with our investigator in response  to our investigators  detailed opinion 
letter. That call lasted  around an hour so I have a good understanding  of Miss Ts concerns. 
I dont need any more information  from her to decide  this complaint.
I think AXA has responded reasonably to the complaint and paid Miss T fair compensation. 
Ive considered all the issues  raised but I will focus  on the points  that I think are central to 
this complaint. 
Ref: DRN15673452I can see it was a distressing time for Miss T and Miss T2. As a mother Miss T was 
understandably worried about  Miss T2s wellbeing  and had concerns that shed been put on 
a drip when  she had an ear infection. It was a stressful  situation  for them  both. I can see that 
AXA asked for a medical report and tried unsuccessfully to speak to the doctor who was 
treating her. The medical report indicates  that the drip was to give Miss T the antibiotics, 
together with other treatment including for pain relief. There  wasnt anything  in the medical  
report to give AXA a concern about  her medical  treatment.  I think  AXA made  reasonable 
attempts to resolve Miss Ts concerns and ultimately  it was for the doctors  treating Miss T to 
decide on her treatment. 
I think AXA took reasonable steps  to progress the claim for Miss T. It asked for the 
information it needed to check Miss T was covered including Miss Ts flight details.  That was 
reasonable. It arranged for a new hotel as Miss T2 wasnt fit to fly for a few days. Ive 
listened to Miss Ts concerns about  the hotel  and the distance from the hospital, but I accept 
AXA had limited choices  at the time because it was peak  season at the time. It attempted to 
arrange a hotel of a similar standard and board basis when Miss Ts original  hotel was fully 
booked. It tried to make  sure it was in the right area, although it was further  away from the 
hospital than Miss T would have liked.
Ive read all the contact  notes between Miss T and AXA and I think  it took reasonable steps 
to keep her updated.  Miss T had limited  internet  access but the call notes show that AXA 
called Miss T (or her partner, whose number it had). When it couldnt get through AXA sent 
her both text messages  and emails. 
I can see from the contact notes that Miss T was upset when she called AXA and felt she 
didnt have any control over her daughters  treatment. I think  AXA tried to listen  to her 
concerns and reassure  her. AXA has accepted that it would have helped, given Miss Ts 
distress, if AXA had given her one person to talk to as a central contact point.  I know  Miss T 
has explained she was kept on hold and has sent her phone records.  We offered to send 
them to AXA for it to consider the cost of Miss Ts calls to it, which  I think was reasonable. 
I can also see that there were some  detailed conversations  between Miss T and AXA.  There 
was also a mix-up about the flight and taxi, which was clearly stressful.
Overall, having considered all the evidence I think AXA has responded fairly to the 
complaint. I think £250 compensation was fair and reasonable for Miss Ts distress and 
inconvenience. So I dont  require it to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint because I think AXA has responded 
fairly to it and paid a reasonable  amount  of compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1567345