K820x#14complaint
Mr J says American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited (AMEX), mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  when  he took out a new credit card in 1998. 
Mr J says he wasnt told enough  about  the policy.
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint about the policy  
being mis-sold shouldnt  be upheld. 
However, AMEX has already paid Mr J some money for the commission  it received from the 
sale. Mr Js representatives still think the policy was mis-sold in the first place and so have 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js mis-sale complaint.
We asked AMEX if it still had Mr Js credit card application form. 
On the form he filled out, I can see Mr J was given the option  of whether or not to have PPI 
because there was an option  box to mark if he wanted to have this type of cover.  I can see a 
tick was placed  into that box and Mr J signed the form, which  strongly suggests to me that 
PPI was something he wanted  to have. 
I therefore think Mr J wouldve been  able to see he had a choice and that he didnt have to 
buy the cover if he didnt want to. I think he agreed to the policy.
I dont think AMEX advised Mr J during the course of the sale because it was conducted  by 
post. He would have therefore probably  filled out the form in his own time and sent it to be 
processed. This means  it was for Mr J to decide for himself whether or not PPI was 
something he thought  was right for him. AMEXs duty was to provide enough clear 
information for Mr J so he could make  an informed decision.
I cant say AMEX did everything right and I can see ways  in which  the form could have been 
set out more clearly.  But my understanding of these types of sale is that the application form 
was part of a wider leaflet-based form and on the whole, I think Mr J was probably  given 
enough information. 
So whilst its obviously possible AMEX  couldve done more,  I dont think  this wouldve made  
any difference to what Mr J went on to do.
This is because the evidence  shows  he wanted the PPI policy.  And Mr J was eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions  we tend to see in some of these  
Ref: DRN14507012policies. He didnt  have much sickness protection with his job and the cost of the policy  
seems to be affordable  for Mr J. 
If hed needed  to make a claim, Mr J wouldve been able to have his outstanding  balance 
reduced by 5% each  month for up to 24 months. So I think Mr J had a use for the policy and 
thats probably why he wanted to have it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about  the mis-sale and I dont require American Express 
Insurance Services Europe Limited to do anything  more.  
American Express Insurance  Services Europe  Limited has already paid him for the 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium and I think  
thats fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1450701