K820x#14complaint
Mr M complaint is about misrepresentation of his hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited (Audi).  He says he agreed to a three year repayment  period 
but the agreement was made out for a four year term. He wants the agreement to be 
amended back to a three year period.
background
Mr M tells us he entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Audi in 2017  for the supply of a 
new vehicle. He says he believed the agreement  was for a repayment period  of three years.  
But when he was provided with his first annual statement he noticed the term had increased 
to four years. Mr M doesnt believe he signed a four year agreement.
Audi told us it had activated  and paid out on the agreement based on the paperwork it held 
on file. It said this related  to a four year agreement. And that as Mr M had signed the 
agreement, this indicated the information  was correct. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  In his view letter,  he set 
out a detailed timetable of events. He found  that Mr M had signed two finance agreements. 
He explained  that this had arisen as Mr M had asked for the registration  date of his new 
vehicle to be delayed.  This had enabled him to take advantage  of a later registration plate 
(67 as opposed to 17). This would come into effect if the vehicle was first registered after 1 
September 2017. He said the first signed  agreement had shown a 36 month repayment term 
but had been with the vehicle having a 17 plate. The second  signed agreement with the 
vehicle showing a 67 plate was for 48 months.  He noted that the invoice  for the latter vehicle 
also showed an increased cash price together with additional features being included.  He felt 
it reasonable to expect  that the details of the agreement wouldve been checked  by Mr M 
prior to signing.
Mr M didnt  agree with the outcome and said he didnt think  it was fair to use probabilities  to 
reach a decision.  He felt he had provided  facts. As its not been possible to resolve  this 
complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M feels strongly about  this matter and I understand that hed be concerned 
to find himself having to make repayments  over 48 months if he expected the agreement to 
only last for 36 months.
Where the information  Im given is unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. I dont 
apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account.  And were this matter to be determined  
by a civil court that would be the test applied.
Ref: DRN11169462I accept that Mr M originally intended  to enter  into a three year agreement.  Ive seen an 
email dated 8 August 2017  which he sent to the dealers before the first agreement was 
signed. In this email  Mr M raises  a query about  the term of the agreement. He notes that the 
agreement is for 10k miles over 47 + 6 payments and he refers to a previous email  which 
related to 12,000 miles and 35 +6 payments. The email concludes please advise. I infer 
from this that Mr M wished for some clarification regarding the duration of the proposed 
agreement. 
But its not unusual  for arrangements  to be altered if circumstances change. I suspect Mr M 
did what many motorists  wouldve done given the timing of the proposed deal was close  to a 
change in registration plates. He opted  for a later registration date. As the first agreement  
signed showed the 17 plate registration it was necessary  for a new agreement  to be drawn  
up to reflect  the change to the 67 plate.
I understand Mr M accepts he signed two sets of documents  - one when the vehicle was first 
ordered in August 2017 and the second upon collection of the vehicle in September  2017. 
But he doesnt believe  he signed for a four year deal.
The first agreement document I considered  appears to bear Mr Ms signature and is dated 
10 August 2017.  This agreement shows the vehicle as being first registered on 1 September 
2017. And indicates a cash price of £35,637.15. It relates to a three  year agreement with an 
advance payment of £7,574; 35 monthly  payments  of £404; and final payment of 
£16,458.75.
The second  agreement also appears to bear Mr Ms signature and is dated 29 September 
2017. I understand this is when he collected  the vehicle. This agreement shows  the vehicle 
having been first registered on 30 September 2017  - which accords  with the preference  Mr 
M had indicated. The vehicle cash price on this agreement is £37,527.68;  the advance 
payment is £7,574; 47 monthly payment of £404;  and a final payment of £14,345.00.
Im not sure why the cost price of the vehicle  increased. It maybe that this was due to the 
longer term of the agreement - and therefore  increased mileage allowance. Or it may be that 
there was simply a price  increase. Whatever  the reason,  it doesnt  affect  my decision as the 
detail was recorded on the face of the agreement.  And even a quick  inspection of the 
document would  have  shown this. If the price was increased but the monthly  payments were  
to remain the same  it would seem  inevitable that the term of the agreement  would  have to be 
extended to reflect this. 
Mr M had previously raised a query about the proposed length of the agreement. So its not 
unreasonable to infer that if he was dissatisfied with the terms of the later agreement - which  
was prepared to reflect the change in registration  plate - hed have said so at the time. I find 
that Mr M had been provided with the necessary information about this agreement in order  
for him to make an informed decision as to whether  to proceed.  And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest the terms of the agreement were misrepresented.
Mr M has indicated  he was unaware  the agreement had been made  out for four years until 
he received his first annual statement. But Ive seen a letter dated 3 October  2017  from Audi 
to Mr M. This is by way of a welcome letter and confirms the schedule of payments.  It shows  
the first payment is due on 29 October 2017.  The date for the final (lump sum) payment  is 
shown as 29 September 2021. In other words a four year term. I cant  say whether Mr M 
read this document but in the light of its content  it lends further support to the view that the 
agreement which had just been  activated  was for four years.
Ref: DRN11169463In September  2018 - when he raised the issue  with the dealership where hed signed the 
agreement - Mr M received  a reply suggesting the duration was for three  years. But our 
adjudicator dealt with this in his opinion letter and it appears to have arisen out of a 
misunderstanding. The dealership has apparently been taken over and the sender of the 
reply didnt have  access  to earlier records. And so was unaware  of a signed  four year 
agreement post-dating the three  year agreement  to which Mr M seemed  to be referring. 
Although this inadvertent error  occurred I think its simply an administrative mistake which 
doesnt affect my overall conclusions.
I accept its easy to make assumptions  about  the content of agreements and it can be 
tedious to check  paperwork. But its a reasonable expectation that before signing an 
agreement a consumer  will check the document. But even where  this doesnt happen, it 
doesnt mean a business cant rely on a signed  agreement. Here there were significant  
differences between  the two signed documents and not just in terms of the duration of the 
agreement. The cash price of the vehicle and the final lump  sum payment also varied 
significantly. And theyre matters Id expect to be uppermost in a consumers mind when it 
came to finalising  and checking details of an agreement. 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as our adjudicator and for much  the same reasons. On a 
balance of probabilities, I find the agreement which Mr M took out was that which  contained 
the later vehicle registration date and was of four years duration. And I consider he ought  
reasonably to have  known  this. I dont find there was any misrepresentation of the 
agreement.  
In the light of my findings - which I understand will come as a disappointment to Mr M - Im 
not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1116946