K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a store 
card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Ms M took out the policy over the phone in June 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Ms complaint.  Ms M disagrees  with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as the sale took place a long time ago and FICL no longer 
has any of the sales  documentation or a recording of the phone call, which isnt surprising. 
So Ive based  my decision on the evidence  that we do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened. Ive also thought about how much time has elapsed and how this may have 
affected Ms Ms memory of events.
Ms Ms recollection  is of applying for the card in store because she was attracted by the offer 
of getting a 20% discount on her purchases.  She says that the sales  person didnt make  her 
aware of anything to do with PPI. Therefore she believes it was added without her 
knowledge or consent.
FICL has provided evidence that the store card account was opened on 20 December 1993, 
so this is the event  that Ms M is recalling. However,  FICL  has also provided  evidence that 
the PPI wasnt taken out until June 1994 and that it was taken out over the phone.
As Ms M already had the store card at that point, I dont think she can have thought  it was a 
condition of having the card. Ms M clearly has no memory of this call, which  isnt surprising  
given how long ago it took place. On balance, I consider that there would have been a 
discussion about PPI and that Ms M would have  been asked if she wanted  it. It seems to me 
that Ms M probably decided to buy the policy, knowing that she didnt have to, even  if she no 
longer remembers doing  so.
I dont know if FICL  advised Ms M to buy the policy or not, but that makes no difference to 
the outcome of my decision.  If it did advise her to buy it, FICL would have needed to ensure 
that the policy meet Ms Ms needs.  And from what I know of her circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable.
Ref: DRN13761082Ms M says her employer  would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay, if she was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to this and 
potentially for longer  than she would have received full pay for. Ms M has told us that she 
had no disposable  income at the time  even though she was working  and she had no 
other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I consider that she had a need  for the 
policy and could have  benefitted from it if shed been unable  to work due to accident  or 
unemployment.
Its possible that FICL didnt provide as much  information as it should  have  about  the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Ms M wasnt affected by any of those 
things. Because  I think she had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  
that better  information  would have caused her to change her mind.  So she isnt any worse  
off as a result of anything  FICL may have done  wrong, so theres  nothing  that FICL needs to 
do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1376108