K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with his claim under  a private  health  insurance policy. He wants matters  put right.
background
Mr I had a private health insurance policy with AXA. He found a lump in his leg and was 
referred by his GP to have a scan. Mr I called AXA and was told he could claim. But after the 
GP referral letter was read by AXA, it rejected the claim. AXA said that the scan  wasnt  
medically necessary  and Mr I didnt  need  to receive  further treatment. Mr I said that AXA had 
told him the lump  wasnt a symptom. Mr I paid £240 for the scan himself,  and while the 
conclusion was that the lump wasnt a serious matter,  there  were  some signs  of varicose 
veins.
Mr I complained to AXA,  pointing out that a lump  could  be a symptom.  It said a lump could 
be a symptom, but as Mr I wasnt suffering from anything else, AXA had decided that there 
was no medical necessity for the scan. It noted  that the GP had suggested some possible 
diagnosis, which AXA said wasnt covered by the policy in any event (though if the eventual  
diagnosis had been different, it said it wouldve reviewed the claim). It also said that if the 
lump was just a benign  skin tumour  (a lipoma), no treatment was medically necessary, and 
the same  applied if there was varicose  veins without  any acute symptoms. AXA accepted 
that its service wasnt good enough  as it hadnt  clearly  explained  the position to Mr I earlier 
and paid £50 compensation.
Mr I complained to us, pointing out that he was referred for a scan by a doctor, and the scan  
was to enable  a diagnosis to be made. AXA said the policy said it was only to cover acute 
conditions for which  medical treatment  was required, not chronic conditions or cases  where 
treatment wasnt required at all. 
The investigators view was that AXA hadnt acted  fairly or reasonably in rejecting the claim 
for a diagnostic scan. She said the GP thought a scan  was medically  necessary  to diagnose 
the lump (and he only suggested possibilities); she didnt think that it was reasonable for 
AXA to say the scan wasnt medically required. The investigator accepted  that the policy  was 
mainly for acute conditions, but pointed out until the diagnosis was made  (which  required the 
scan), there was no way to know the type of condition  Mr I had. She said AXA should refund 
the cost of the scan, together with interest,  minus any excess. But the investigator  didnt  
recommend any refund  of premiums as Mr I was covered by the policy  while it was in place.
Mr I agreed with the investigators view, but AXA disagreed.  It said the scan  was referred  by 
a GP and so was primary care,  and excluded from the policy.  AXA repeated  its arguments  
that in any event the policy didnt  cover varicose  veins in these  circumstances and there was 
no medical need to treat a lipoma.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  In Mr Is case, I think AXA 
acted unfairly and unreasonably  and Ill explain why I think that below.
Ref: DRN13417282AXA is an insurer, and isnt able to provide medical services or advice; thats the role of 
medically qualified  persons.  Its common industry  practice for insurers  to rely on the view of 
doctors (and similar experts), but in Mr Is case,  AXA didnt accurately consider the view of 
the GP. The evidence  from the GP is clear   he wasnt able to diagnose the lump,  though  he 
had a view about  possibilities;  he referred Mr I for a scan  because in the GPs opinion  it was 
medically required. The fact that the possibilities may be excluded  from the policy was 
irrelevant  until the scan was carried out, no-one knew  what was wrong with Mr I and 
whether any treatment was required. And the lump was a symptom.
Its also incorrect for AXA to claim that the scan was excluded  from the policy  under the 
primary care exclusion. This is an illogical assertion, given how healthcare in the UK 
operates. Patients generally are referred to secondary care by their GP; if AXAs  argument 
was correct, very few patients would be covered. And the policy is clear that if the scan 
couldnt be carried out by the GP, as is the case here, it isnt excluded under the primary 
care section.
I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for AXA to pay for the scan in the circumstances. 
The fair and reasonable resolution is for AXA to pay £240, minus any excess  fee due, and 
also pay 8% simple interest a year from 3 December 2018  to the date it refunds Mr I.
I thought about  whether £50 compensation was fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr I by AXAs failings. Money never  truly compensates  for 
trouble and upset,  and this service awards such compensation  based on the evidence  
available about  how much trouble and upset was caused. I note Mr I accepted the 
investigators view and think £50 is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable for all the premiums to be refunded; Mr I was 
covered by the policy and if he had needed to make a claim, AXA wouldve been required to 
deal with it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  should  pay 
Mr I £240 (minus any excess due),  together with interest as outlined above. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject  my decision  
before 5 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1341728