K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Clydesdale  Bank  Plc wont refund the premiums he paid for his card 
protection policy.
background
Mr M took out a card protection policy on 17 March 2008. He says he was told it was 
compulsory. This service received his complaint on 14 February 2019. He asked for the 
premiums hed paid to be refunded, together with interest. He then complained to 
Clydesdale.
Clydesdale didnt offer a refund. It said hed missed the deadline for claiming  under  the 
redress scheme (the scheme)  thatd  been  set up for policies such as his. Mr M said he never 
received anything from the scheme.
An investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr M didnt agree. The 
complaints therefore  been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
In 2015, the financial services  regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA),  agreed  a 
redress scheme to compensate consumers, like Mr M, with card protection  policies. As the 
investigator explained, the scheme  broadly required businesses like Clydesdale to return  
premiums paid on or after 14 January 2005  to consumers  who made a claim before a certain  
date. The scheme  was approved by the High Court.
The FCA also decided  as it can when theres  a redress scheme  that the ombudsman 
service should follow  the rules of the scheme when deciding complaints about  sales  of 
policies that wouldve been covered by it. Im satisfied Mr Ms policy  was fully covered by the 
scheme.
This means  I cant  investigate Mr Ms comments  about the sale of his policy. Rather  than 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint, I can only look at 
whether the scheme rules  were  followed and whether hes received what he was entitled to 
under those rules. Mr M has explained why he believes this is unfair. But Im not able to do 
anything different. If hes unhappy with the position, that would be something for him to raise  
with the FCA.
The scheme rules say Claim Forms  must be received by the Scheme Administrators on or 
before the Bar Date. If a Claim Form is received after the Bar Date, the Claim Form will be 
rejected or be deemed rejectedand the Scheme Creditor [Mr M in this case] shall have  no 
right to Redress. So claims  had to be made by the bar date which  was 18 March 2016.  
Although there was a later bar date of 19 September 2016 if one of the exceptional 
circumstances listed in the rules applied.
The scheme has provided its records for Mr M. They show he was sent a form on 
11 May 2015 asking  him to vote on whether the scheme should be set up. Following the 
vote, the scheme was set up and the records show he was sent a claim form on 
9 September 2015. A completed claim form was never received from Mr M. And he didnt 
contact this service; Clydesdale; or the scheme  until February 2019.
Ref: DRN17403032Mr M says he never received the forms, so it was impossible for him to make a claim in time. 
It may be that he never  received them.  But the scheme rules  simply say Any notice given 
under the Scheme by the Scheme Administrators to any person  shall be sufficiently  served 
by posting the same  by first class  (or equivalent)  or airmail post to or leaving  the same  at the 
address of such person last known to [the policy administrator]. There isnt a requirement 
for the documentation  to be received. And in fact, the rules  explicitly say The Bar Date will 
apply to all Scheme Creditors irrespective  of whether or not they receive actual  written  notice 
of the Scheme.
Having looked  at what happened  here, Im satisfied the scheme rules  were followed. Mr M 
disagrees. He says the records only show  he was on a list to be sent documentation, not 
that it was sent.  But in my experience, these records accurately show what  was sent. And 
the scheme rules  didnt  require the documentation  to be sent by registered post or recorded 
delivery.
I understand Mr M is frustrated and feels the situation is unfair.  I appreciate his strength of 
feeling. But the scheme rules dont allow for an exception to be made in his circumstances. 
And as set out above, Im required  to follow those rules when deciding  his complaint.
Its not a case of me believing  Affinion or Clydesdale over Mr M or siding with Clydesdale.  I 
havent been able to investigate whether  I think he received  the scheme documentation. Ive 
only been able to consider whether the records show the scheme  rules  were followed. 
Mr M says Clydesdale should have taken steps to make sure he received the documentation  
from the scheme. I dont  agree. The FCA didnt put any such  obligation  on the banks and 
building societies involved. And Im satisfied it isnt a fair or reasonable expectation of 
Clydesdale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1740303