K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that the boiler he paid for through a fixed sum loan agreement  with 
Shawbrook Bank Limited wasnt  fitted with reasonable  care and skill. He wants 
compensation for the damage caused  to his house  and the distress and inconvenience  he 
has experienced.
Background
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook  Bank  in January 2018 to 
acquire a boiler. He says that the boiler wasnt installed  to a satisfactory standard and 
caused his house to be flooded twice. He says this resulted in damage to his wallpaper, 
plaster, floor and television. He says there were issues  with the wiring and that although  he 
didnt sign the satisfaction notice the loan funds were released to the supplier.
An inspection report was completed in February 2018 but Mr M says that the work  hasnt 
been carried out.
In its final response letter,  dated July 2018,  Shawbrook Bank apologised for any 
inconvenience caused by the loan account being opened while  work  was still ongoing with 
the boiler. It says that Mr M had discussed the issues  with its team  on 30 January 2018  and 
asked for the loan account not to be opened  but the same day that account  was set to be 
paid out overnight  through its standard process.  Because of the upset caused Shawbrook  
Bank offered to pay Mr M £500  compensation. In regard  to the damage to Mr Ms house, it 
says that the supplier  would be in touch to review and remedy  the issues.
Shawbrook Bank later says that the supplier  had attempted to resolve the issues with Mr M 
on several occasions but he hadnt responded. It says the report  showed the issues  raised 
and that these were  resolved with the only remaining issue  being the damage Mr M said was 
caused by a leak in his living area. It says that the boiler was installed in the kitchen  and 
there was nothing to suggest work  was carried out elsewhere in the house  and so it 
challenged how the installation could cause a leak elsewhere. It says this suggested there 
was an existing issue with the pipework and wasnt a fault that occurred  due to the 
installation of the boiler.
Our investigator initially said that the offer made by Shawbrook Bank was reasonable in 
regard to the issues with the installation of the boiler. In regard to the funds being released  
she said that our service didnt take the view that a satisfaction note was required before this 
happened and that as the boiler had been installed Shawbrook Bank was entitled  to release 
the funds.
However following  further information our investigator issued a second view noting that 
further action  should  be taken by Shawbrook Bank.  She noted  that it had been  accepted  that 
there was an outstanding  issue  with the wallpaper.  She thought there was enough evidence 
to say the boiler wasnt installed with reasonable care and skill and recommended  that an 
independent inspection be carried out to inspect the potential outstanding issues. She noted 
the comments about contact with Mr M and said he had provided a reasonable reason as to 
why a follow up appointment wasnt arranged.  She confirmed Mr M was willing for an 
inspection to take place.
Our investigator said that the parties disagreed on the cause of the pipes leaking and that 
this would need investigation  along  with the alleged damage to the television.  She 
Ref: DRN10569152recommended that Shawbrook  Bank remedy any problems identified  through the inspection 
report that were linked with installation of the boiler.
Shawbrook Bank didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that the supplier had 
provided an inspection  report  to show the outstanding  issues at that time and what  repairs  
were undertaken. It said Mr M hadnt  provided  evidence of the other issues  that have been 
raised. It said that if Mr M had outstanding  issues he should  provide evidence of these  or 
arrange his own inspection report.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and made the following conclusions.
An inspection report carried out a month  after installation noted the wallpaper in the 
living room had water  stains; old wiring  had been taped up; mess under the floor in 
the cylinder cupboard needed to be removed; and boxing in the kitchen above and 
below the boiler required  reinstating. Evidence was provided to show  that the boxing 
work was carried out. 
Mr M had raised concerns about  the boiler pressure but I didnt have any further  
evidence to suggest this was an ongoing issue or to suggest the boiler itself wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. 
The main outstanding point appeared to relate to the wallpaper damage.  Water 
damage to the wallpaper was identified in the report but repairs not undertaken. In 
further correspondence the supplier  said that it should have carried out repairs  to the 
wallpaper. Given this I found  it reasonable that the damage to the wallpaper in the 
living room was remedied.
Since the initial remedial work was carried out Mr M said his television was also 
damaged. I didnt find I could say that the damage to the television was linked to 
issues with the boiler  installation.
The inspection report appeared to address the points  raised  by Mr M and I didnt 
think that further inspection was needed,  unless Mr M had further damage  that he 
wished to be assessed that wasnt covered in the initial report.
I found the fairest outcome was for Shawbrook Bank  to arrange for the damage to Mr Ms 
wallpaper to be remedied.  If Mr M provided further evidence to show  the damage to the 
television was caused by the installation  of the boiler then this should  be addressed. I said 
that if there  were other issues Mr M believed to be linked  to the boiler  installation  that werent  
covered in the inspection report he could provide evidence of these and I would expect 
Shawbrook Bank to consider this. 
Shawbrook Bank offered  compensation of £500 in its final response letter.  This appeared to 
be linked  to the concern Mr M raised  about the funds  being released. I didnt find that 
compensation was specifically  required for that issue but thought Mr M should be paid 
compensation for the problems he had suffered  due to the poor installation of his boiler. I 
found that £500 compensation was reasonable.
Ref: DRN10569153Shawbrook Bank responded to my provisional  decision. It agreed that £500 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the issues  Mr M had experienced was 
reasonable. 
In regard to the wallpaper it said that the supplier had previously offered £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill for this but this wasnt accepted.  It was concerned that the requirement  to repair  the 
wallpaper damage in an acceptable way could lead to further  issues and discussion about 
what reasonable costs  would  be. It reiterated  that it shouldnt be liable for the damage to the 
wallpaper as it believed this arose from a leak from a room  separate to where  the boiler was 
installed. It noted the inspection report suggested something for the stained wallpaper  as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision. He said that as part of the work his old emersion 
heater was taken  out which was above the living room and that this was what caused the 
damage to the wallpaper as the pipes werent  properly stopped resulting in leaks.  He said 
this damaged the floor as water  got underneath it but because the floor wasnt taken  out at 
the inspection  the damage couldnt  be seen. He sent through  photographs  of the floor.
Mr M said that the damage  to the television  only became  apparent later. He said that the 
television was on the wall of the living room which was flooded twice.  He said this resulted in 
damage to the electrics.  He said a local expert had looked at the television but he didnt 
have any written report. He said he still had the television  and this could be looked at. 
Mr M also said that the boiler  was still losing pressure. He said that he was told to leave it six 
months to settle but this was still an issue and although he had tried to contact the supplier 
nothing had happened.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook  Bank  to pay for the 
installation of a new boiler. Under the regulations, Shawbrook Bank can be held liable if the 
boiler wasnt of satisfactory  quality  or if it wasnt installed with reasonable care and skill.
Mr Ms complaint is about the installation of the boiler. Given the issues  he raised an 
inspection was carried out in February 2018,  the month after installation.  This commented on 
the issues set out by Mr M. 
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I found that the key outstanding issue was the 
damage to the wallpaper. Shawbrook Bank reiterated previous comments  about the damage 
to the wallpaper  not arising from an issue caused by the installation  of the boiler.  I 
understand the point that has been made.  However  I also note Mr Ms comments about the 
other work that happened  at that time. On balance, given the information provided about the 
work, the information  in the inspection  report about  the damage, and the comments  by the 
supplier in regard  to this issue  I find it reasonable that this repair  takes place at no cost to 
Mr M.
I appreciate the point  raised by Shawbrook  Bank  about the extent of the repair. I also accept 
that work  beyond to actual damaged wallpaper  may ned to take place  to ensure the issue is 
fully remedied.  Therefore  I find it reasonable that Mr M should  obtain quotes for the 
Ref: DRN10569154damaged wallpaper  to be remedied and these should be provided  to Shawbrook Bank. 
These quotes can then be considered by Shawbrook Bank and subject to a reasonable 
quote being accepted,  the work should  go ahead. Shawbrook Bank can arrange for the 
payment to be made.
Mr M has said that his television was damaged by the leak in his living room. I said in my 
provisional decision that the inspection  report contained a photograph of the television on 
the wall and it appeared to be working.  I note the comments  Mr M has made about how the 
damage arose and that the water  leaks caused  damage to the electrics. He has said the 
television is available for inspection. However, as an inspection was carried out after the 
boiler installation  and this didnt show any damage  to the television, I find that it is up to Mr M 
to provide evidence  that the television damage  was due to the issues  arising from the boiler 
installation work. As this hasnt been  provided  I do not find that I have enough evidence to 
uphold this part of his complaint.
Mr M has also provided photographs of his flooring. While I can see that there  is some  
damage, I can only hold Shawbrook  Bank responsible for damage caused  as a result  of the 
installation of the boiler. I appreciate the points Mr M has made about the water getting  
under the flooring and then causing the damage. If further evidence is provided then I would 
expect this to be considered. However  without evidence to show that the damage was due to 
issues arising from the installation of the boiler I do not find that I can uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
Overall, as I set out in my provisional decision,  I find that Shawbrook Bank should arrange 
for the damage  to the wallpaper to be remedied (subject to quotes  being provided) and pay 
Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience he has been ceased.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
1.ensure the wallpaper damage  reported  in the February 2018  inspection is remedied. 
This is subject to Mr M obtaining  quotes for the work and the this being agreed  with 
Shawbrook Bank  which  will then ensure the agreed  payment is made;
2.pay Mr M £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  the issues  with his 
boiler installation  have caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1056915