K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that MEM Consumer Finance Limited (trading as Payday UK) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr C was given a single loan by Payday UK. He borrowed £200 in December 2012. It 
appears that Mr C wasnt able to repay that loan when  it was due so he rolled  it over by 
paying some  additional  interest. But the loan was fully repaid in March  2013.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
Payday UK had been wrong to give this loan to Mr C so he didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mr C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint  hasnt  
been resolved  informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Payday UK needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Payday UK should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN17404722Payday UK hasnt  been able to provide  us with any details of the information that it gathered 
from Mr C at the time he took the loan. But I can see that Mr C provided another  lender with 
information about his income  around the same time. So I think  it most likely that hed have 
given similar information to Payday UK. The loan that Mr C took was small compared  to that 
income 
So given the amount  Mr C needed  to repay, what was apparent  about his circumstances at 
the time,  and that this was his first loan with the lender, I dont  think  it wouldve been 
proportionate for Payday UK to ask him for the amount of information that might have shown 
the lending was unsustainable. And Im not aware of anything  in the information Payday UK 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start independently 
checking Mr Cs true financial position.  
So I dont  think that Payday  UK was wrong to give this loan to Mr C. And so it follows  that 
I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
MEM Consumer Finance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1740472