K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained  about Acromas Insurance Company Limited. They  werent happy 
with the way it dealt with a claim under their home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim under  their home  emergency policy  as they had a leak from 
their boiler. An engineer  attended and had to arrange to call back  as he needed to get new 
parts for the boiler. But it was subsequently  decided that the boiler was beyond  economic 
repair (BER). This was because new parts couldnt be found  as the boiler  was over 24 years 
old. 
Mr and Mrs C were without hot water and heating  so Acromas offered to put them  up in hotel 
accommodation. But this wasnt suitable  for Mr and Mrs C as they had pets to look after. It 
also offered a BER payment of £250 in line with the policy.  
But Mr and Mrs C werent happy  about this so they complained. They said that although the 
boiler had a leak it was working at the time the engineer attended. And so they felt Acromas  
should pay the full cost (£1900) to replace the boiler.  
Acromas accepted that its engineer  may have caused Mr and Mrs Cs boiler  to breakdown.  
But as the boiler was over 24 years old it didnt think that it should pay all of the replacement 
boiler costs. But it did offer to uplift the BER payment to £350 and to pay an additional  
compensation to cover  a portion of the additional heating costs  incurred. And it offered a 
payment in acknowledgement of the fact that the boiler had to be replaced  slightly earlier 
than it should  have been. Acromas offered £781.47  in total and then added  a further BER 
payment of £350.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy so they asked this service to look into things for them. But 
our investigator thought  that the compensation offer of £1131.47 was fair. 
As Mr and Mrs C didnt  agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, although I agree that 
Acromas didnt deal with Mr and Mrs Cs claim very well, I think that Acromas  has taken 
reasonable steps in trying  to put things right. I know that this will be a disappointment to Mr 
and Mrs C but I hope my explanation assists in understanding  why.
It is important  to emphasise that Mr and Mrs Cs boiler was over 24 years  old and had a 
number of leaks and other  problems when  their own engineer decided to replace it. Indeed, I 
note that there had been a number  of call outs to the boiler in the preceding year.  The 
reason this is important  is because  it is very likely that Mr and Mrs Cs boiler would have  
needed replacing soon in any event.  I say this because of the recent problems with the boiler  
and the fact that any boiler over 10 years  old is considered old and likely to nearing the end 
of its economic life.
Ref: DRN15380352However, I accept that it is possible that Mr and Mrs Cs boiler couldve lasted a while longer. 
So, as Acromas accepts  its engineer contributed  to the premature breakdown I agree that it 
should do more  than just pay its usual £250 BER payment.
But it has done. In fact it has offered to pay a £700 BER contribution towards the cost of a 
replacement boiler  which seems fair given the age of the boiler. Furthermore,  it has offered 
to pay a contribution  of 50% towards  the extra heating Mr and Mrs C incurred while they 
were without a boiler. And a contribution towards  the extra costs Mr and Mrs C incurred, 
without notice, when  the boiler was deemed  BER.
As all of this amounts  to £1131.47 and the replacement boiler  and fitting was £1900, so I 
think this feels fair. It certainly  covers  the cost of fitting the new boiler (£600) and makes a 
significant contribution to the cost of the new boiler.  And as the boiler was pretty  much at the 
end of its economical life, and would need replacing soon anyway, I dont think  it would be 
fair to ask Acromas to pay anymore.
So, despite  my natural  sympathy for the position  Mr and Mrs C found themselves, especially 
given Mr Cs poor health and the time of year, I think Acromas has made  a fair offer in 
acknowledgment of its failings. I simply leave  it to Mr and Mrs C to decide whether, upon  
reflection, they wish to accept that offer now.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1538035