K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA)  chose to settle  his 
home insurance claim.
background
Mr Ws property  is insured  through an RSA home  insurance  policy. The policy  itself is held 
by a residents  association made  up of four directors (of which Mr W is one), and it covers  
four properties; one of which is Mr Ws home.
In 2018, Mr Ws home was broken in to and his door was damaged. Mr W submitted a claim 
through his insurance for the damaged door and provided a quote for a replacement. That 
quote was for just over £2500. But RSA said it was higher than expected and asked Mr W to 
provide a comparative quote or have their own suppliers provide a quote for the works.  
Mr W chose to provide a second quote.  But that came out at over £2600, which RSA said 
was still higher than expected. So RSA decided to instruct their own suppliers to provide a 
quote, and they quoted just under £700 for the works. 
RSA decided to offer Mr W the option of either having their own supplier carry out the works,  
or accepting  a cash settlement (the amount RSA would have paid for their supplier to carry 
out the works minus the policys  excess). But Mr W complained and said RSA should have 
covered the cost of the quote hed obtained. Mr W also said RSA had provided a poor 
service throughout  his claim, so RSA looked at what  had happened.
RSA maintained their position in relation to the door.  But whilst  they said there  werent any 
significant delays  in dealing with Mr Ws claim,  they did acknowledge a period of around two 
weeks where there hadnt appeared to be any action on it. RSA also said they could have 
been more explicit  about the benefits  of appointing their own suppliers and offered Mr W £50 
compensation to reflect  any upset that had been caused. But Mr W remained unhappy and 
brought his complaint here. 
In relation to Mr Ws door, our investigator  thought RSAs offer was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. She said RSA hadnt told Mr W his own quotes would be covered, 
and Mr W had accepted  and paid a deposit for one of his own quotes  prior to RSA agreeing  
to any costs. In relation  to the delays,  our investigator thought the £50 compensation RSA 
had offered was fair. So in all the circumstances  of this complaint she didnt  think  RSA 
needed to do anything more. 
RSA agreed with our investigators findings, but Mr W didnt. He said RSA had mis-led him 
into believing a second quote would  be sufficient and said that was the only reason hed 
gone ahead  and instructed the work. He also raised concerns about  increases  to the policys 
premiums, but our investigator  explained  Mr W hadnt complained about that before and hed 
need to raise the premiums matter with RSA before this service could look into it. As no 
agreement was reached in relation to the door though, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19849942The relevant  rules and industry guidelines require RSA to handle claims both promptly and 
fairly, and not reject  them unreasonably. Mr Ws policy sets out that RSA will decide how to 
settle a claim for damage to buildings. The policy reads:
If any of the buildings  described in the schedule suffer damage by any event covered under 
this insurance we will pay you the amount of loss or at our option reinstate  or replace such 
property.
Mr Ws said that RSA led him to believe theyd cover  the works if he provided a second  
quote. But the available evidence shows that RSA told him they needed a comparative quote 
because the one hed provided appeared expensive. It doesnt show  that RSA told Mr W 
theyd cover the costs  of his own quote if another was provided. 
Before RSA confirmed  how theyd settle  Mr Ws claim, Mr W had already agreed to one of 
the quotes hed been given and had paid a deposit  towards it too. Mr W said hed done  that 
because he needed  to get the door fitted as soon  as possible. And given  hed suffered a 
break in at his home I appreciate why hed have been keen  to get the works completed  as 
quickly as possible.  But RSA hadnt  confirmed  how theyd be settling his claim at that point. 
And so I dont think itd be fair of me to hold RSA responsible for paying  the amount  that 
Mr W had already agreed to pay.
RSA have said they always seek to deal with claims in the most economical  way and 
wouldnt make  a payment  for more that itd cost them  to have their own suppliers to carry out 
work. And I dont find that to be unusual. Looking  at that in the circumstances of Mr Ws 
complaint, RSA were  able to obtain  a lower quote  than those Mr W had provided and 
subsequently offered  to have their own suppliers  replace Mr Ws door.  I think  that was fair, 
and in line with the policy term cited above it was something RSA were  entitled  to do. 
Because Mr W didnt accept RSAs offer, I dont think  it was unreasonable  of them to offer 
him a cash  settlement instead. That amount being  what RSA would have paid for the work to 
be done through their supplier (£697.90), minus the excess  that applied  to Mr Ws policy 
(£100). So £597.90 in total.  RSA have confirmed that offer is still available and for the 
reasons given above I think  it represents a fair and reasonable  settlement of Mr Ws claim. 
Looking at what happened during Mr Ws claim, I can see that he did have to chase RSA for 
responses. Given Mr W had experienced a recent theft at his home,  I appreciate that would 
have added to the worry and frustration  he was already experiencing. RSA have 
acknowledged that too though, and they have offered him £50 to compensate for any upset 
that caused. In all the circumstances I think thats  fair, and RSA have confirmed that offer is 
still available too. 
Ref: DRN19849943my final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc have already made an offer to settle the complaint  and I 
think that offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay:
£597.90 to cash settle this claim  
£50 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1984994