K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc wouldnt accept his passport  as proof of who he 
was so that he could carry out transactions on his account. He also says that they recorded 
information on their computer about  him that they shouldnt have and, when he wanted it 
removed, they werent helpful. 
Hed like compensation  for his expenses in dealing with this complaint. Hed also like 
Barclays to accept his passport  alone  as the way of proving  who he is when he wants to 
carry out transactions on his account.  Hed like Barclays  to change their procedures and 
staff attitudes. Finally, hed like an apology from Barclays.
background 
Mr L went into his Barclays branch to carry out a transaction on his account. As he had been 
asked various security questions in the past to confirm who he was, he thought  that it would 
be easier for him to bring in his passport as a way of proving his identity. He says he wanted 
to avoid answering personal  questions in the cashier area of the bank which  wasnt  very 
private. 
But, when he showed his passport, he was told that he still needed to answer security 
questions before the transactions  could be carried out. The cashier also recorded his 
passport number. Mr L wasnt happy  with this. 
He complained to Barclays, and there were a number of letters between them.
Ultimately, Barclays  didnt  uphold  Mr Ls complaint.  
Mr L wasnt happy with this outcome so he came to our service.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint either. 
Mr L didnt accept her decision.  Amongst other  things, he didnt think  that the following points 
had been adequately dealt with:
he was still unable  to access his bank account  by simply using his passport;
hed seen that his passport number was entered onto the Barclays  computer and 
Barclays had told him on more than one occasion that they wouldnt remove it;
he wasnt assured that his occupation status,  which he found had also been  
recorded, would be removed from the system;
he thought  that the data protection rules had been broken  by Barclays  by keeping 
information on their files about him that he didnt want  them  to keep. 
As the parties couldnt  resolve  matter, the complaint  has now come to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN11169202Im afraid that Mr L wont be entirely happy with my decision. Im not upholding part of the 
complaint. But, there is one point where I think that Barclays has given poor customer 
service. I will explain  my decision.
I understand why Mr L thinks that providing his passport should  be sufficient to prove his 
identity. It is accepted in many places as proof of identity. But, I can see why Barclays would 
want to take extra precautions and insist on security questions being  answered too. In their 
letter dated  22 May 2018, Barclays  says that the process of asking security questions  is in 
keeping with our fraud prevention obligations, and is designed only to protect  the funds 
within your account.  They also say that their Terms  and Conditions  allow  them to satisfy 
themselves of the identity of their customers.  I cant see how this is a bad thing. I think  that in 
asking these additional security questions, Barclays takes its duty to protect customers 
money very seriously. Not only do I see no harm in not accepting  the passport alone for 
identity purposes,  I think Barclays  is right in wanting  security questions answered as well. As 
Mr L should know the answers to these questions, I cant  see how this can affect  access  to 
his account. But if they do, I think that Mr L should have a meeting with Barclays  to set new 
security questions. 
Mr L says that there wasnt  much  point in having his passport number on Barclays  file 
because it might be renewed or someone might  have dual-nationality. This may be the case, 
but I would  expect someone  to still know their old passport number  (or to get the new one 
put on the system) or all their passport numbers. I dont think  that Barclays takes only the 
first answer to a question  so Id expect a customer to eventually get the right passport 
number as they work through  the passports that they have, if they have,  or have  had, more  
than one. 
Ive considered Mr L saying that he saw his passport number on Barclays computer and that 
Barclays refused to remove it. Barclays has said that it isnt on the system  so there mustve 
been a mistake in what Mr L was told. I accept Mr Ls version of events as being true. I do 
think that Barclays probably did put the passport number on their computer and then say 
they were unable remove it. But, I now think that it has been removed. 
This is the part of Mr Ls complaint that I uphold. I think  that Barclays gave him poor 
customer service  in giving him different stories  about whether the number was on their file 
and whether or not it could be removed.  I have considered whether having the passport 
number on the file adversely affected Mr L in any way. I cant see that it has. So, I think  that 
Barclays should apologise to Mr L for their poor customer  service regarding recording the 
passport number and also pay him £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience  
caused to Mr L. 
I accept Barclays explanation that they dont know where they got Mr Ls occupation  status 
from but that they mightve asked the question regarding it a number of years ago and it has 
stayed on the account. I accept that they say it wasnt  obtained  by other  means by them.  Im 
also satisfied that Barclays  will remove this information as soon as Mr L provides the details 
that they have  requested.
I cant deal with Mr Ls final point  about  data protection. If he thinks that there has been a 
breach of the data protection rules, he needs  to make a specific complaint to Barclays 
regarding this. This needs to go through their complaints procedure on data protection  and, 
ultimately, the Information Commissioners Office will deal with it. Mr L should, however, 
bear in mind  that Barclays is able to hold information on their file about  Mr L without  his 
consent if it is in their legitimate interests  to do so. 
Ref: DRN11169203I know that this isnt the outcome that Mr L was hoping for and Im sorry for this. I hope that I 
have clearly explained the reasons for my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Barclays Bank UK Plc to:
apologise to Mr L for the poor customer service  that they gave to him regarding his 
passport number being recorded;  and
pay him £50 compensation for this poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1116920