K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the administration of a Hire Purchase agreement he took with 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo). 
He says he wasnt treated  fairly when he asked about ending the agreement.  And, he says 
he found out the interest rate on the agreement was higher than he expected.
background
Mr H acquired  a new car in November  2015.  He traded in his old car and used a hire 
purchase agreement  with Motonovo to cover  the balance and to repay  the amount owed on 
his previous car finance.
The finance  was for a total of £11,300  with an interest rate of 9.4%. The monthly repayments 
were £276.85. Mr H says he was expecting a lower  interest rate than this and only found out 
the actual rate a while after taking the agreement.
Later, unfortunately Mr H lost his job. He says he called Motonovo around April or May 2017 
to discuss this and says he was given incorrect information about his options for the finance. 
Motonovo say it doesnt have any record of this.
Mr H did speak to Motonovo in October 2017 to discuss the finance as he couldnt continue  
to make the monthly  repayments. 
Motonovo called  Mr H in February 2018  as he was in arrears on his account. Mr H spoke to 
Motonovo again in March 2018  and said hed found  a buyer  for the car. 
Later in March 2018 a dealer Mr H had sold the car to paid Motonovo  £6,900.  Mr H says this 
was previously agreed with Motonovo. 
In May 2018  Mr H contacted Motonovo as the dealer he sold the car to had told him the HPI 
marker wasnt removed from the car. Mr H was told by Motonovo  that this marker would be 
removed, and the agreement would be completed. He was also told he could negotiate the 
shortfall between his outstanding balance and the amount received from the dealer. Mr H 
was later told this was incorrect and Motonovo wouldnt take this amount to settle the 
finance.
At the end of May 2018 the dealer Mr H sold the car to contacted  Motonovo  directly and 
asked for a refund as Mr H was taking the car back.  The dealer was repaid  a few days later.
In June 2018 Motonovo issued a default  notice on the account and the debt was passed to a 
debt collection agency.
In October  2018 a court issued a repossession order for the car.
Mr H complained to Motonovo. He said Motonovo had agreed  for him to sell the car for 
£6,900 and take an additional £600 in cash for full and final settlement of the account, but it 
later said it wouldnt accept this. And he said the interest rate had been increased without his 
knowledge. Motonovo issued its final response letter in November 2018. 
Ref: DRN16799622Motonovo said it had looked into what happened  with the interest  rate when Mr H applied  for 
the finance. Originally, it said Mr H had applied to borrow £13,969.85  at a lower  interest  rate. 
But, Motonovo had told the dealer it would only lend a maximum of £11,300. The dealer then 
reduced the price  of the car to allow Mr H to acquire it and repay his old finance - for a total 
of £11,300. 
But, Motonovo explained that in order to mitigate  its losses from reducing the price of the 
car, the dealer increased the interest  rate originally applied  for to 9.4%. Motonovo  said it 
didnt think it was reasonable for Mr H to pay the extra interest.  It said it worked out that Mr H 
would be paying  a total of £818.15 extra from the increase in interest  rate. So, it offered  to 
remove this amount from the balance of Mr Hs account.
Motonovo discussed the contact it had with Mr H. It said in March 2018  it agreed to accept 
£8,100 to settle the agreement  made  up of £7,500 from the sale of the car and £600 from 
a family  member. But, it says at no point before the sale did it agree for Mr H to accept 
£6,900 for the car or to negotiate the level of shortfall this would leave.
Motonovo said it was a mistake that Mr H was told, after it received the money from the sale, 
that the finance could  be settled and the shortfall  negotiated.  It said he shouldnt  have been 
told this  as he hadnt met any agreed  terms. It apologised  for this and offered £30 to be 
removed from Mr Hs arrears for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Mr H was unhappy with Motonovos response  and brought the complaint to this service.  An 
investigator looked into the case.  She said she didnt think  Mr H had been told he could sell 
the car for £6,900 and negotiate  the difference. And she said she thought  Mr H wouldve 
been aware of the interest rate on the agreement, but the offer of £818.15  to put this right 
was fair.
Mr H disagreed. He said wasnt informed of the interest change. And he asked the 
investigator to listen to the calls between him and Motonovo  - as the investigator said these 
werent available when they issued  their opinion. He again said he spoke to Motonovo  in 
May 2017 about losing  his job.
Our investigator then issued a second view having listened  to some of the phone  calls 
between Mr H and Motonovo. She said these didnt change her opinion  and she still thought 
he hadnt been told Motonovo would settle  the account with a sale price of £6,900.  And she 
still thought Motonovos  offer for the interest rate change was fair.
Mr H still disagreed. He again said he spoke to Motonovo in April or May 2017. Our 
investigator explained we wanted  to look at the interest rate change Mr H complained about 
in more detail  before an ombudsman issued a decision. The case was passed to a different 
investigator.
This investigator issued  an opinion.  She said she didnt think  the change  in interest rate was 
explained to Mr H as clearly as it shouldve been.  But, she thought  Mr H wouldve still taken 
the finance if it was. She thought Motonovos offer to put things  right was fair.
Mr H disagreed. He said, had he been fully aware of the interest rate, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the finance and instead wouldve chosen  a cheaper car.
It was then arranged  for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. While  awaiting to be 
assigned, Mr H gave us some more details about his recollections from the time of sale. And 
Ref: DRN16799623Motonovo said it had made a mistake with its offer to Mr H. It said Mr H had lost out on 
£517.55 rather than £818.15.
I sent Mr H and Motonovo a provisional  decision on 26 January 2021.  This explained that I 
was initially thinking  of upholding the complaint.  My findings from this provisional decision 
were as follows:
Mr Hs complaint is about a hire purchase agreement. Providing consumer  credit  contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mr Hs complaint against 
Motonovo.
Mr Hs complaint has two parts, so Ill consider each of these in turn.
Was the finance misrepresented to Mr H?
When deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and regulations. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S56)  is relevant to this complaint.  This says, in 
summary, that in certain situations  finance  providers are liable for what  a credit broker  says 
in antecedent negotiations. This means  Motonovo are responsible for what the dealer told 
Mr H about the credit  agreement before he entered into it.
What I need to consider here is whether Mr H was told a false  statement of fact about the 
hire purchase agreement.  If he was, I need  to think about whether  this induced him into 
taking the finance, when  he otherwise wouldnt have.
Looking at what happened here,  there is a question over the original interest  rate Mr H 
applied for. It appears from a proposal  form from the time of application  that the rate was 
3.71%. But, this is for the amount of £11,300, which is not what  it appears the application 
was actually put through as. Motonovo has provided some details from its underwriters 
which show an application for £13,969.85 at a rate of 5.5%.  So, on balance,  I think its most  
likely the original application was for an interest  rate of 5.5%.
When Motonovo informed  the dealer it couldnt lend the total amount requested, the interest  
rate was changed  to 9.4%.  So, I need  to consider if Mr H was aware of this change.
Ive considered the documents seen by Mr H at the time. I accept Mr H electronically signed 
a credit agreement which  shows the interest  rate as 9.4%. But, I dont think  this tells the 
whole story.  Mr H has been consistent  with what hes said about believing he had a lower 
interest rate. He also says he was never told the rate had changed.
Mr H also says that he didnt receive  a copy of his credit agreement  at the time. This seems  
to be backed up by the contact notes from Motonovo and Im satisfied Mr H didnt receive a 
copy of the agreement until several  months after agreeing to the contract.
I would also have expected to see something to specifically highlight  the change  in interest 
rate to Mr H when the finance agreement was changed from the original application.  But, I 
cant see that this was the case.
Considering everything  here, on balance I dont think its most likely Mr H was told about the 
change in interest rate. It follows that I think  a false statement of fact was made here, as I 
think its most likely  Mr H was told the rate of interest was 5.5%.
Ref: DRN16799624I now need to consider  if Mr H was told about the change of interest rate, whether he 
wouldve gone ahead with the finance agreement or not. 
Mr H has told us quite clearly that had he known the rate had changed, he wouldve decided 
to get a cheaper car with cheaper monthly repayments. He believes this wouldve meant he 
wouldnt have struggled with the repayments  when he later lost his job.
Its important to note here that the dealer did not simply change the rate of interest  on the 
original terms  of the finance Mr H applied for. The dealer reduced the cash  price of the car 
quite significantly.  And it also appears  it gave Mr H a higher  value  for the car he traded in on 
the second deal. Looking  at the information  from the underwriters, it appears  the initial 
finance agreement  had monthly  repayments  of £296.86. The finance Mr H took had monthly  
repayments of £276.85.  This means  the monthly  repayments were around  £20 lower  on the 
agreement Mr H took than that on the original finance he applied  for. 
I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling  about  this issue.  Ive carefully considered everything 
hes said about this. And, I understand that, with the benefit of hindsight, it wouldve been 
better for Mr H to have  had lower monthly  commitments when he unfortunately lost his job.
But, I have to consider  what  I think Mr H most likely  wouldve done at the time  not later.  It 
appears Mr H was happy to take the car and finance  on the original terms of the agreement. 
Thinking about  this, even though the interest  rate was higher, I dont think  its most likely he 
wouldve declined to take the newer agreement, given  that the monthly repayments were 
lower than those originally applied for.
I have thought about whether Mr H couldve got the car at the reduced price  and the lower  
interest rate. There are a lot of variables to consider here. And I cant say for sure whether 
this wouldve  been an option for the dealer or not without making a loss. But, thinking  about 
the reduction in the price of the car Mr H got, I think its more likely than not that he wouldnt 
have been able to get a deal where he received both the car for the reduced  price and the 
finance on the lower  rate.
Having said this, I should point out that I do not think what  happened here was fair and 
reasonable. Mr H shouldve been  informed  about  the change  of interest rate. And, Im 
satisfied that Motonovo wasnt clear and transparent with Mr H as I would expect it to be 
when it changed  the interest rate to make up for lowering the cost of the car.
Im also satisfied, even though I think Mr H wouldve gone ahead  with the agreement,  that 
Mr H was caused some distress and inconvenience here. Mr H obviously  feels very strongly 
about this issue  and Im satisfied he wouldve  been  caused significant upset by finding  out 
he didnt have the interest rate he thought he had. Ive also considered  that from an 
administrative point of view, Mr H was also caused  some distress by not receiving a copy of 
the agreement  when he took out the finance and by Motonovo delaying sending  this out to 
him. I think its reasonable for Motonovo to pay Mr H some compensation for these issues.
When considering  if Mr H has lost out financially because of whats happened, it seems  the 
simplest way to work this out would be to look at what  he wouldve paid under both 
agreements. The agreement Mr H ended up with had lower  monthly  repayments,  with the 
same term as the lending  originally applied for. So, as far as I can tell, Mr H wouldve ended  
up paying less on the agreement he took.
Ref: DRN16799625Ive considered the offer Motonovo  made  to reduce Mr Hs balance.  It said it worked this out 
by taking the difference between the total interest payable on the two applications and 
removing the amount  the dealer reduced the cost of the car by. It now says this works out at 
£517.55.
But, as Ive explained above,  I cant see that Mr H has actually lost out because  of taking the 
second deal  because his monthly repayments  were lower due to the lower amount lent 
under the second agreement. That being  said, in this particular case if Motonovo have 
already reduced  Mr Hs balance by £517.55,  or the original £818.15 offered, given his 
financial situation I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to take this back from Mr H. I 
say this as this would cause him further distress and financial difficulty.
Was is agreed Mr H could  sell the car for £6,900 to settle the account?
Mr H says he was told he could sell the car for £6,900 and pay £600 to settle  the account. 
He says Motonovo later said it wouldnt accept this. So, I need to consider  what I think  likely 
happened here.
Ive reviewed the contact  notes from Motonovos dealings with Mr H. And Ive listened  to 
several phone calls that took place between Motonovo and Mr H prior to him selling the car 
to the dealer. 
In October  2017 when  Mr H spoke  to Motonovo he was given various options of what  he 
could do with his finance, including making  up any arrears if he got his job back, voluntarily 
terminating the agreement or privately  selling  the car to repay  the balance. At this point Mr H 
was told that the settlement figure for the account  was £8,684.61. Mr H said he thought the 
car was worth  about £8,000.
Before Mr H sold the car, in March  2018 he told Motonovo that he had it valued at around 
£7,500 and he offered to pay an additional  £600  cash to settle the account. He was told this 
was lower than the outstanding amount on the account, but Motonovo  would see what it 
could do to help.  It told Mr H it would  need something in writing from a dealer to confirm the 
price. 
Later the same month it then appears  an email was forwarded to Motonovo from a dealer 
offering £7,790 for the car. But, in April 2018, Motonovo received a payment of only £6,900 
from a dealer. 
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence here. But, having  done  this and listened to the 
phone calls, I havent heard or seen  anything that shows Motonovo  agreed  to accept £6,900  
before it was received.
I accept that later this amount may have been  agreed on to settle the account   but this was 
several months after the money was received then refunded to the dealer,  and only after 
Mr H had got the car back.
Thinking about  everything, I dont  think its likely  Mr H was told he could sell the car for 
£6,900 in order to settle the account  before he sold it to a dealer  in April 2018.
Ive considered that Mr H says he spoke to Motonovo in April or May 2017 about returning  
the car. Motonovo  says it has no record  of this. Ive seen Motonovos contact notes and 
there are no calls recorded around this time. Mr H has provided a list of calls he says shows 
Ref: DRN16799626that he spoke  to Motonovo. Ive thought about what Mr H sent here. But none  of the calls 
listed are from around this time. Even  if I accepted these calls took place, these  wouldve  
been made around a year before the car was sold. So, either way, this doesnt change my 
opinion.
This all being said,  I do need to consider  that in May 2018, after the funds had been received 
from the dealer,  Mr H spoke to Motonovo and it advised him the agreement  would be 
completed and the HPI marker removed. It also told him he would be able to negotiate the 
shortfall from the sale. Motonovo has said this was a mistake, apologised and offered Mr H 
£30 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.  
Ive thought about this. Even  though, as Ive explained above,  I dont think its likely it was 
agreed with Motonovo for Mr H to sell the car for £6,900 before he did, I think  that finding  out 
the finance wasnt going to be settled when he was told it was must have been  very 
upsetting. And I dont  think  £30 is enough  to reflect  this.
Summary and putting things right
In summary,  I think its most likely  Mr H was given incorrect information about the interest 
rate. Although I dont think its likely this wouldve affected his decision to take the car and 
finance, I do think it wouldve been  stressful for him to later find this out. And I dont think  the 
arrangement for the car and finance was done  in a clear  and transparent way.
I dont think its likely  Mr H was told he could sell the car for £6,900  to settle  the finance 
before he did this. But I am satisfied that he was later given incorrect information  about this 
and I think this wouldve  caused some significant  upset  for him.
Ive asked Motonovo to confirm if the £517.55 or £818.15 has been  removed from Mr Hs 
arrears  but it hasnt  confirmed either  way. If it has done this, I dont think  it needs to give 
Mr H any additional award.
If Motonovo  hasnt yet taken any action on the amount it said it thought  Mr H was owed, I 
think it should pay Mr H £300 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
I appreciate if Motonovo has reduced Mr Hs balance, then this will be by a higher amount 
than Ive put above to reflect the distress  and inconvenience caused.  But, if this amount has 
been paid, taking this away would cause  Mr H further distress.  And, given his financial 
situation, I dont  think this would be fair and reasonable.
I gave both parties one month to respond  to the provisional decision with any further 
information or evidence.
Motonovo didnt  respond to my decision. Mr H responded and said the amount Id suggested 
to put things right wasnt enough  he said it would be fair for any balance  he owed to be 
cleared from his account. He also said hed lost out because  he had to buy another car and 
had paid out expenses in connection with this.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16799627Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr H said in response to my provisional decision.  But, 
I dont think Motonovo  should be responsible for any costs Mr H had in getting another  car. 
And, having reconsidered everything again,  I still think how I suggested putting things right in 
my provisional decision is fair and reasonable under all of the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Ive thought about all of the information on this case again. Having done  so, I still think this 
complaint should  be upheld  - for the same reasons I explained in my provisional  decision 
and set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct FirstRand Bank Limited  trading  as 
Motonovo Finance to put things right by doing  the following:
If Motonovo has reduced Mr Hs balance  by £517.55 or £818.15  already, it should  
leave this reduction in place
If Motonovo hasnt  reduced Mr Hs balance, it should pay him £300 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1679962