K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his home emergency insurance  
claim and about its service. My references  to Great Lakes include its agents.
background
Mr P contacted Great Lakes to make a claim on his home  emergency  insurance. He told 
Great Lakes the boiler was working but making  static noise. He turned off the boiler as he 
was concerned about his familys safety.  He says his professional training meant he broadly 
knew what the problem  might be and the potential risk of the boiler staying on. 
Great Lakes said the boiler hadnt  failed or broken down completely so the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy. It offered to send an engineer to confirm  but it required Mr P to give 
payment details upfront for a call out charge. If the boiler was unsafe,  had to be turned off 
and failed completely it wouldnt charge for the call out. Mr P declined as he thought he 
should be covered  by the policy.
Great Lakes told Mr P it would speak to its contracted  engineer to get confirmation the static 
noise presented no safety risk. Its engineer said the boiler would be safe to use but an 
engineer should attend as there was a fault.  Great Lakes' contracted engineer  wrongly 
thought Great Lakes had accepted the claim and arranged  to attend Mr Ps property the next 
day. Great Lakes  realised the error and cancelled the visit.
Mr P contacted Great Lakes the next day. Hed been expecting an engineer  to attend. 
Great Lakes then spoke  to the boiler manufacturer who confirmed the boiler  was safe to use 
which Great  Lakes passed on to Mr P.
Mr P complained to us. He was concerned that Great Lakes had based its advice on 
incorrect facts,  which  he detailed, and the engineer didnt attend  as planned. He sent an 
invoice for the boilers private  repair  which showed  the printed circuit  board had short  
circuited creating  a 'potential fire risk hazard'. He wanted Great  Lakes to pay the claim and 
review its procedure which he believed  was unsafe.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes fairly declined the claim but it should pay Mr P £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  its poor service had caused.
Mr P accepted our investigators recommendation. Great Lakes  offered £50 compensation 
which Mr P didnt agree so the matter has been  passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly  uphold  this complaint. On the information  I have Great Lakes acted fairly in not 
accepting the claim  but it must pay Mr P £100  compensation. Ill explain why.
The policy covers a complete breakdown or failure  of the primary heating  system. On the 
information Mr P gave Great Lakes and the information it had from its engineer and the 
boiler manufacturer I think it acted reasonably in understanding that there  hadnt  been a 
complete breakdown or failure of the boiler.
Ref: DRN11636102The boiler worked before Mr P turned it off. The engineer  told Great  Lakes there was a 
safety cut off switch  that would cause the boiler to shut down if unsafe and the correct 
manufacturer for the boiler also told Great Lakes the boiler was safe.
Great Lakes reasonably thought it had enough  information to decline the claim. It also acted 
fairly in offering to send an engineer if Mr P gave  it payment details as the policy  says:
where it is not possible to validate your claim at the time of initial notification,  you may be 
required to leave (payment details) which maybe debited  in the event that the cost of the call 
out are not covered by this insurance.
Great Lakes has also told us that as it understood the boiler was functioning and safe the 
situation didnt  meet the policy definition of emergency: 
a sudden and unforeseen situation which if not dealt with quickly  would result in damage 
that would  otherwise be unstoppable and:-
i. render the property unsafe or insecure; or
ii. damage or cause  further damage  to the property;  or
iii. cause excessive discomfort, risk or difficulties for or to you.
The invoice for the private repair doesnt give me enough evidence  to show  that, contrary to 
the advice of Great Lakes engineer and the boiler  manufacturer, the boiler  did have to be 
turned off immediately for safety. 
So on the evidence  I have there  was no emergency and no complete failure or breakdown of 
the boiler. Great Lakes fairly declined the claim.
However, Great Lakes  accepts that in some respects it gave poor service. Ive seen its 
comments but I dont  think £50 is enough  compensation.
Mr P was worried  about his familys safety and turned his boiler off to protect them. 
Great Lakes then told him as there were no fault codes  on his boiler it was safe to use. But it 
had never  asked Mr P for, and he had never  given, any fault code  so he was understandably 
concerned Great Lakes was acting on wrong  information. Although  Great Lakes did speak to 
the correct boiler  manufacturer  about  safety,  at one point it gave Mr P the wrong 
manufacturers name which added to his concerns about Great  Lakes reassurance  about 
safety.
Great Lakes clearly should have told Mr P that it had cancelled the engineer visit he was 
expecting.
Overall £100 is a fair amount  to recognise Mr Ps distress and inconvenience Great Lakes 
poor service caused.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to pay Mr P £100 for his distress and inconvenience 
caused by its poor service  within 28 days of us telling it Mr P accepts my final decision.
Ref: DRN11636103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1163610