K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd mis-sold him a motor insurance policy. 
Hes represented by Mr K.
background
Mr D bought a policy  through  Herts  having found  a quote on a comparison website. The 
insurer later refused to cover a theft claim as it found that Mr Ds car was on his drive 
overnight when  stolen. The policy required it to be kept in a locked garage  overnight. 
Mr D had told Herts when asked that the car would be locked in his garage. In fact Mr D 
didnt have a garage when he bought the policy. 
Mr K said Mr D had made an error and that it could have  been avoided had Herts asked 
more open  questions. He said it was an advised sale and Mr Ds demands and needs  
hadnt been met, so Herts had mis-sold  the policy to him. Mr K later said there  was an 
excess of £2,000 on the policy,  which meant the insurer  was never going to fully indemnify 
Mr D for any claim he might make. He said for that reason the policy should never have 
been sold in the UK. The insurer went into liquidation a few months  after Mr D took the policy 
out. Mr K said it didnt have the funds to cover  the risk it was insuring at the time.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ds complaint. He thought the sale was non-advised 
and that Mr D had given Herts the wrong  answer  to the clear  question it had asked about 
where his car would be kept at night.  He said the documents Herts sent to Mr D showed that 
cover was excluded  if the car wasnt kept in a garage and that the policy  could be voided for 
not disclosing  material facts. He said Herts  arranged the policy  based  on what  Mr D had told 
it. The investigator didnt  agree  that the insurer wouldnt  have covered a claim made on the 
policy, apart from the excess,  which Mr D had agreed to at the point of sale.  Herts confirmed 
that the insurer was trading normally when the policy was taken  out and that Herts didnt 
know about the liquidation  until over three  months  later.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
I think its clear  from the sales call and the correspondence that when Mr D bought the policy  
through Herts it was a non-advised  sale. Hed already  entered his details into a comparison 
website and had a quote. He told Herts  he wanted to discuss  the cost of the policy,  monthly  
payments and the excess. The advisor  gave him factual information about the policy  and 
checked the details Mr D had set out online. I dont  think he gave Mr D any advice. 
On the comparison  website Mr D used, the following statement was set out directly above 
the questions  Mr D was required to answer:
Please  answer all questions accurately  and in full.
Your policy will be sold to you on the basis of the information you provide and if your 
answers are incorrect or incomplete, your policy could be cancelled,  or you might  have a 
claim rejected in full.
Ref: DRN19329652The comparison website has confirmed that this statement was in place when Mr D bought 
the policy in 2018. The details he entered on the website were  passed on to Herts. At the 
start of the call, Herts  advisor said he was going to check the information Mr D had already 
provided. He said if Mr D provided any false information the insurance policy may be void.  
Mr D replied Yeah and didnt query what the advisor had said. 
When going through the checks,  Herts  advisor  asked  Mr D where his car would be kept 
overnight. I think that was a clear, open question. Mr D said it would be kept in a locked 
garage and then confirmed the garage was at his home address. The advisor later referred 
to the endorsement on the policy that said when the car was at Mr Ds home address it had 
to be in a locked garage overnight. Mr D agreed that he was happy with the endorsement. 
I dont think there was any ambiguity in the question Mr D was asked  about  where  the car 
would be kept overnight,  or in the answer  he gave. I dont think  it was Herts role to query  
further whether  his answer was accurate. I think it did what it was required to do as a broker 
and established  the facts.  Mr D later said hed forgotten he didnt have a garage at the new 
address hed moved to a year previously.  But Herts had no reason to think  the answer  hed 
given was wrong. Mr D had been warned twice  during the sales process  about  disclosing all 
the facts - and the consequences of giving incorrect details.  So I think it was for Mr D to take 
reasonable care in providing the facts on which the sale of the policy was based.  Had he 
done so correctly, I dont think  Herts would have proceeded  with the sale.  
Herts advisor asked  Mr D to read carefully through the documents  it sent to him directly 
after the sale. The advisor said the onus  was on Mr D to check  for errors and ensure the 
details set out were  correct. The Statement  of Fact and the policy  schedule  showed that the 
car was garaged  overnight.  Mr D didnt query  that, either during the cooling-off period or 
later. Herts Summary  of Cover set out a consumers  Duty of Disclosure  marked as 
important. It said Mr D must advise Herts  immediately of anything that may affect the policy 
and that failure  to disclose relevant facts could invalidate it. 
The summary of cover  also contained  Herts  Statement of Demands and Needs,  which said 
the sale was non-advised.  It said based  on the details  given  by Mr D - and assuming there 
were no changes that Herts didnt know about - the policy hed bought  was suitable for him. 
Herts couldnt have  known that Mr D had supplied the wrong  details. The summary of cover  
(and the other documents) prompted  him to correct any errors  as Herts advisor had done. 
The policy excess was discussed in the sales call and was set out clearly  in the documents. 
The advisor said the policy carried a high excess in return for a lower premium. Mr D readily 
accepted that at the time after discussing how the excess applied. Its standard industry 
practice for insurers to require a policy holder to pay the first part of any claim.  I dont agree 
with Mr K that it was unlawful  to sell the policy to Mr D because of the policy  excess.   
Theres no evidence that Herts was aware  of the financial difficulty the insurer  must  have  
been facing in the months before the liquidation.  As the insurer was operating normally  when  
Mr D bought the policy, I think it was reasonable for Herts to process the business in the 
usual way.
As I dont think Mr D has been able to show that Herts acted unreasonably or that it mis-sold 
the policy to him, I cant uphold his complaint. 
    
Ref: DRN19329653my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1932965