K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy about the fee Claim Easy Ltd (CEL) has charged  her for a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim she said she had cancelled.
background
In December 2017, Miss C signed  a Letter of Authority (LOA) for CEL to represent her in 
submitting mis-sold PPI claims. In January 2019,  on the success  of her claim CEL asked 
Miss C to pay its fee. 
Miss C said she didnt  feel the fee being asked for by CEL should be paid,  as she said shed 
cancelled the agreement in April 2018,  before her claim was successful. So she said CEL 
wasnt authorised  to act as her representative.  
CEL said Miss C hadnt cancelled the agreement and had signed  another LOA in
October 2018. In January 2019  her claim was successful and compensation was paid, so 
CEL said its fee was justified.
Miss C referred her complaint to the Legal  Ombudsman for investigation. This complaint was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies.
Our investigator said CEL was authorised to act as Miss Cs representative and the claim 
had been successful. So CEL could charge its fee.
Miss C disagreed and has asked  for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Miss Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
The agreement Miss C signed, with CEL on December 2017 and October 2018 was on a 
No win No fee basis. This means  CEL charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based 
upon the amount of work they actually did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful  claims 
would be done  for free. Where  a claim was successful, CEL s fee may be more or less than 
the value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of 
agreement. 
In December 2017, Miss C was sent a Welcome  Pack from CEL.  This included  the LOA that 
she signed and its terms and conditions which said for cancellation:
You have a 14 day cooling off period  from the date we receive this agreement  to 
cancel your authority  for us to act on your behalf
In January 2018 CEL confirmed it had received the signed forms and submitted these to
Miss Cs lender.
Ref: DRN16035802Miss C has said that she cancelled the agreement in April 2018, but this was after the 14 day 
cooling off period had passed.  So in deciding what fee CEL can charge Miss C I need to 
determine whether  she cancelled  her authorisation for CEL before or after she knew her 
claim was successful.
Ive seen the specific email trail between both parties in April 2018 that Miss C says is her 
cancelling the agreement.  Im concerned that the wording  differs  in the version supplied by 
Miss C and the version supplied by CEL. I can see in both that Miss C asked for an update. 
But, on the email  provided  by Miss C there is the additional wording of: 
Im at the stage where I wish to cancel  all matters  as I dont  get a response
In CELs response to Miss Cs email dated  4 April 2018, it gave the requested update  but 
there isnt any reference or acknowledgement of any cancellation being requested. And I can 
see that further updates have been sent to Miss C since April 2018.  Also in September 2018, 
she completed a PPI questionnaire  and she signed  another LOA,  dated  31 October 2018. 
So as Miss C has continued to authorise  CEL by signing a further  agreement  Im not 
persuaded that Miss C did cancel her agreement  with CEL in April 2018. Miss C has also 
said she tried to cancel the agreement in November 2018, but I havent seen any evidence 
to support this. So, Im satisfied that CEL was authorised to represent  Miss C. 
On 5 November  2018, CEL submitted  the LOA signed 31 October 2018 to Miss Cs lender.  
As CEL didnt receive  an acknowledgement from the lender it submitted it again on 
4 December 2018. And in January 2019 Miss Cs lender told CEL her claim was successful.
In January 2019, Miss C was told this in a call from CEL she asked to cancel her agreement. 
But the terms and conditions say:
If we have  succeeded in getting an offer of Compensation by the date you cancel 
you are liable to pay our fee.
In its terms and conditions  CEL set out its fee as being 35% plus VAT. And Miss C in signing 
the LOA had agreed that she had:
  read the Terms and Conditions, note specifically Condition  4 relating to 
payment obligations for the agreed upon  fee..
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce  a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force  on 10 July 
2018. From  this date,  claims  management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success  fee 
of more than 20% plus VAT. But the fee cap wasnt retrospective - so doesnt  apply to 
agreements entered  into before this date.  So CEL can charge the higher fee.
. 
I know Miss C will be disappointed with my decision.  But the claims CEL submitted for her 
were successful. So, Im satisfied CEL was authorised to act on her behalf  and acted in line 
with its terms  and conditions by charging  Miss C its success  fee of 35% plus VAT.
So, Im satisfied that CEL can apply  its fee to Miss Cs successful claim.
Ref: DRN16035803my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1603580