K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC have  failed  to remove a fraud block placed on 
money in their joint current account.  They also complain about poor customer  service.
 
Background
On the evening of 25 June 2018  Mrs S was booking a family  holiday. A payment she tried to 
make from her and Mr Ss Lloyds  account  was declined. Shortly afterwards Mr S received  a 
message from Lloyds asking him to confirm Mr and Mrs S were making the payment. He did 
this. But the payment was again  declined. Mrs S then called Lloyds. She says that during the 
call she was on hold for more than an hour and received poor customer  service  from the first 
person she spoke to. Eventually she spoke to a Lloyds operator who said that it was 
experiencing a technical  issue which had affected many customers  and that is why she 
spent so long on hold. She went  through  security checks and was told the block had been 
lifted. Mrs S said this all took several hours late on the evening  of 25 June and into the early 
morning of 26 June,  when she had to be up for work at 5am. 
When Mrs S tried to make the payment on the morning of 26 June, it was declined  again. 
She called Lloyds and was told the block was still in place. She wanted Lloyds to call her 
back after investigating, but she was told she had to wait on the line. She couldnt do that 
because she was at work.  She was also told she couldnt transfer  the funds to another  
account. Her husband also called Lloyds to try to get the funds  released  but was unable to 
do so. Mrs Ss parents  ended up paying for the flights  that day. 
On 29 June Lloyds  customer service called and offered  reimbursement for call costs and 
£100 compensation. Mrs S says she asked if the funds would be released and was told she 
would need to call the fraud department. Mrs S says she declined  the compensation offer 
until she was sure the funds would be released.
Mrs S visited  a branch  later on the 29th June.  The branch was able to contact the customer  
services representative  Mrs S had spoken to earlier that day and Mrs S spoke with her. 
Lloyds then sent a final response  letter to the complaint  dated  that same  day, 29 June 2018. 
On 10 July 2018, Mr and Mrs S complained to us. Mrs S says the final response letter  had 
the wrong date for when the block was put on. She also said that as far as she knew the 
funds remained blocked.
Our investigator asked  Lloyds to provide information. On 1 November he let Mrs S know  that 
that the funds  in the account  werent  blocked  and that the issue  had been  resolved on 29 
June 2018. He could see that she had been  using  the account and if she wished to repay 
her parents  she could  do so. 
On 30 November, our investigator  gave  his view on the complaint. He thought the offer of 
£100 compensation and the reimbursement of call costs was fair. Lloyds had apologised on 
a number of occasions. He thought the reason the issue wasnt  resolved  on 26 June  was 
that Mrs S couldnt stay on the phone. And he didnt think the bank needed to offer more 
compensation for the time taken for her branch visit, because that was her decision.  He said 
the customer service agent had told Mrs S on 29 June the block  was removed,  which Mrs S 
had acknowledged.  And he didnt think shed  lost out on any interest.
Ref: DRN16740822Mrs S did not accept the investigators view. She said it had an error. And she thought our 
investigator had insinuated shed lied. Our investigator apologised for the error and said he 
didnt imply shed lied. 
Mrs S asked for a decision  from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mrs and Mr S have had a 
frustrating experience. Mrs S in particular has had to spend  a good deal of time on the 
phone, and shes had to borrow money  from her parents to ensure the family didnt miss out 
on their holiday. So its understandable  shes asked for a decision  from an ombudsman. But 
Im afraid Ill have to disappoint her as I agree  with our investigator, for much the same 
reasons. 
Theres no doubt here that Lloyds provided poor customer service. Its explained to Mrs S 
that it had a technical problem that created an unusually high demand for customer  service 
assistance. Mrs S thinks that the bank should have been able to investigate and call her 
back, rather than expecting her to wait on the phone and to make various calls to sort it all 
out. I understand why Mrs S feels that way but Im afraid I cant tell Lloyds  how to run its 
business; I can only look at the impact  of its actions on her and Mr S. 
In this case I think the impact was short lived,  apart  from the considerable inconvenience 
caused by the lengthy  phone calls, and having  to ask her parents to pay for the family  
holiday. Mrs S brought her complaint to us partly because she thought she still didnt have 
access to the funds that had been  blocked.  Ive listened very carefully to the second  phone 
call of 29 June 2018 and I agree with our investigator that Mrs S was told during  that call that 
the block had been lifted and she could  access the funds and that she acknowledged  this. 
So Im not sure why she thought she couldnt  access the money. I can see from the account  
statements that the account was being  used from 29 June onwards. So its clear  there  has 
been a misunderstanding but I cant fairly  say that it is the banks fault, given the phone  call 
on 29 June. 
Mrs S was concerned that she hadnt  been  able to pay her parents back,  and that they had 
missed out on interest on the money. I think our investigator may have misunderstood this 
point, and I apologise for that. But Im not going to ask the bank to pay interest, as the funds 
were only unavailable  to Mr and Mrs S for three  (or four) days at most  late on 25 June to 
sometime on 29 June. 
Any time after that Mrs S could have paid back her parents  the £2,100 for the holiday. And 
the interest for a three-day period,  giving  current interest rates, would be very small indeed. 
I now need to consider  what  is fair compensation for the inconvenience experienced by Mr 
and Mrs S. Lloyds offered  compensation of £100 for inconvenience and re-imbursement  of 
call costs. Mr and Mrs S want  £500  in compensation. Theyve based that on their hourly rate 
in employment  to reflect in financial terms how much their time has cost to deal with the 
matter to date. And theyve added some interest.  And Mrs S has said that its not just the 
money, its the principle  of the thing  how large organisations can treat individuals  and 
mostly get away with their actions. 
Ref: DRN16740823Our role isnt to punish the banks   it is to consider whats fair in the circumstances of an 
individual complaint. And we dont normally award  compensation for inconvenience based 
on an hourly rate, although Im grateful to Mrs S for setting out why she thinks £500  is 
appropriate. We all experience inconvenience in our day to day dealings with businesses, 
but I agree that in this case Mrs and Mr S have experienced more than a minor 
inconvenience, as theyve had to spend quite some time on the phone.  But I agree with our 
investigator that it was Mrs Ss decision to go to the branch  by then she knew  she needed 
to speak to a specialist team member to have the block  lifted. So although  I understand her 
frustration there was no reason to think that anyone in the branch would have been able to 
lift the block on the funds. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think the banks offer of £100  plus call costs  is fair and I 
wont be asking it to do anything further, although  I understand  this will disappoint Mr and 
Mrs S. I understand that Lloyds offered Mrs S £30 for call costs.  If she says the call costs 
were greater than this, I expect Lloyds  will want to see evidence  of this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr and Mrs S £100 for their 
inconvenience and must re-imburse Mr and Mrs Ss call costs.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1674082