K821x#15complaint
Mrs P had a motor insurance  policy with Admiral Insurance  Company Limited and complains 
about what happened after she was involved in an accident whilst driving.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my second provisional  decision dated          
1 October 2020, an extract  of which  is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
In my second provisional decision, I set out why I thought the complaint should be upheld 
and what I proposed to direct Admiral to do to put matters right. I invited both parties  to let 
me have  any further comments and evidence. Mrs P said that she was happy to settle  the 
case on the basis of the decision Id reached.  This service didnt receive  a response from 
Admiral. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs P nor Admiral  have provided any substantive comments, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my second provisional decision. So, for the reasons 
Ive explained,  I find that Admiral  didnt give Mrs P clear and timely information
which caused her distress and inconvenience.  I think that fair compensation for that is
additional compensation of £250,  taking the total to £500. In addition, Admiral should  give 
Mrs P written confirmation as to how the claim has been recorded and that her no claims 
discount was allowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I now direct
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  to pay Mrs P additional compensation of £250  in
relation to her distress and inconvenience.  This is in addition to the £250  compensation it
has already paid her. It should  also provide Mrs P with written confirmation  as to how the
claim has been recorded and that her no claims discount was allowed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13518532extract of my second  provisional decision
complaint
Mrs P had a motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited and complains about 
what happened after she was involved in an accident  whilst driving.
background
In December 2018, Mrs P was involved  in an accident whilst driving on a motorway. A rear tyre from a 
lorry burst  and hit the side and roof of Mrs Ps car, causing damage.
Mrs P contacted Admiral. Admiral told Mrs P that there were two options: she could  either  use a 
non-fault service provided  by another business, which  I will refer to as A1, which  meant she 
wouldnt have to pay the excess  due under  her policy, or she could claim  on her own policy and pay 
the excess. Mrs P chose to use the non-fault service provided by A1.
Mrs P says A1 arranged the repairs and caused further damage  to her car, which it repaired. A1 also 
asked Mrs P to pay the excess of £310. It told her that she could claim  the excess from the other 
driver, but she discovered that the shed have to pay for the services of a law firm to do so.
When Mrs Ps policy  came up for renewal, she took out insurance with another  insurer, as she 
wasnt happy with the service shed received from Admiral.
Mrs P says that Admiral told her, incorrectly, that she wouldnt have to pay the excess  due under the 
policy. She says that Admiral delayed dealing with the claim and didnt provide  her with information  
about what was going on. Mrs P says that the repairs to her car were poor. She says that if Admiral 
had given her correct information, she wouldve taken her car elsewhere for repairs. Mrs P is 
concerned that the claim will have a negative impact  on future premiums.
In response to Mrs Ps complaint, Admiral paid her compensation amounting to £250 in relation to 
poor service. Mrs P remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said initially  that Admiral should  
reimburse Mrs P the excess of £310  she paid. Admiral  didnt agree. It said:
It had paid Mrs P £250 compensation for its poor service and giving her incorrect 
information about  the excess.
Mrs P accepted the non-fault service provided by A1, which means Mrs P isnt making  
a claim against her own policy, the excess isnt payable, and her no claims discount 
isnt reduced.
Liability became  complicated and A1 couldnt obtain  an admission  of liability  from 
the other drivers  insurer, which  meant A1 dealt with the matter in a different  way 
than was envisaged at the outset.
The law firm dealing with Mrs Ps uninsured losses decided  that there was no 
prospect of recovery, as the insurer for the lorry driver provided maintenance  records 
for the lorry, so it would be difficult to prove negligence.
The handling of the claim by A1 and the law firm Mrs P spoke with is outside this 
services remit.
Ref: DRN13518533The investigator looked  at the matter again. She said that Admiral had acted fairly  but its 
communication with Mrs P couldve been better. The investigator said that Admiral admitted errors  
and paid Mrs P total compensation  of £250, which she thought was fair.
Mrs P didnt agree  with the investigator. She said, in summary:
The new information provided by Admiral  doesnt  contradict  what  the 
investigator said in her first view.
Admiral paid her £100 for trouble  and upset, £50 for incorrect advice and £100 for 
delay in dealing with her claim.
She has spent a considerable amount of time trying to resolve  this matter.
Whilst shes aware that her policy says that she must pay the excess of £310,  Admiral  
told her verbally and in writing that she wouldnt have to pay the excess.
Admiral told her that there were  two options:  either  use the non-fault service provided  by 
A1, which  means shed pay no excess, or make a claim  against her own policy and pay 
the excess due under her policy.  She chose to use the non- fault service, so she 
wouldnt have to pay the excess.
If Admiral had told her that shed have to pay the excess,  shed have 
arranged repairs with a garage of her choice.
Admiral didnt provide  her with information to make an informed choice, didnt act 
quickly and didnt make the process easy for her.
Admiral hasnt handled her claim  fairly, as it hasnt carried out a thorough
and complete investigation.
She wants Admiral to compensate her for the excess she paid.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I sent 
both parties  a provisional decision, in which  I said that I intended to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I relied  
on Admirals submissions to this service in which it said that Mrs P chose the non-fault service offered 
by A1, so wasnt  claiming against her policy. I said:
Its common  ground that Mrs P chose to use the non-fault service  provided by A1. That meant that 
she didnt in fact make  a claim against her own policy. Admiral  told Mrs P that if she chose the non-
fault service, she wouldnt have to pay the excess due under her policy. That is strictly true where  
the other driver is found to be entirely responsible for the accident. But its not how it worked out for 
Mrs P, as A1 subsequently asked her to pay a sum equivalent to the excess. I understand that was 
because A1 couldnt establish that the other driver was at fault.
I can see why Mrs P may have thought that she was still dealing with Admiral. Admiral sent Mrs 
P confusing  information. It wrote to her in April 2019 and told her that her open claim  was being 
dealt with as a non-fault claim. There wasnt in fact an open claim, as Mrs P chose not to make a 
claim against her own policy. So that letter was inaccurate.
Admirals records show that it recorded the December 2018 incident as Notification only. That 
means theres no claim, Admiral doesnt collect the excess due under  the policy and Mrs Ps no 
claims discount is unchanged.
Ref: DRN13518534Admiral wrote to Mrs P in June 2019, saying that it had passed  its file to its solicitors and may need 
to abandon recovery if theres evidence  to show that the other drivers vehicle was roadworthy. But 
as there was no claim, Admiral hadnt paid anything out, so there was nothing  for it to recover.
Admiral accepts that it gave Mrs P misleading and confusing information. I dont think  that 
caused Mrs P any loss. If Mrs P had decided  to claim  against her policy  at the outset, she would 
have had to pay the excess.
Mrs P says that if she had known that shed  have  to pay the excess  even though shed chosen 
the non-fault service  with A1, she would  have  arranged repairs with a garage of her choice. But 
its not clear to me that Mrs P would  have made that choice at that stage. Mrs Ps policy provides 
that if she wants to use a repairer  of her choice,  Admiral wont provide her with a courtesy car, 
and shell have to obtain at least two estimates. On balance, I dont think I can safely conclude 
that Mrs P would have wanted the additional inconvenience of that.
Admirals errors caused  Mrs P uncertainty and inconvenience. She was no doubt  distressed to learn 
that Admiral had given her incorrect  information. Admirals misleading  and confusing  information 
continued over several months. Admiral has already paid Mrs P compensation  amounting to £250. 
Considering everything, I think that it should  pay Mrs P additional compensation  of £250,  taking the 
total to £500. It should also provide Mrs P with written confirmation that it has recorded the incident  
in December 2018 as notification only and that her no claims discount is unaffected  by the accident.
Mrs P accepted my provisional  decision. Admiral didnt accept my provisional decision.  It said,  in 
summary:
It was satisfied  that the compensation of £250 it had offered for its errors was fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs P was aware in April 2019  that the matter was being dealt with as an open,  non-fault  
claim.
As A1, the provider of the non-fault service, was unable to obtain an admission  of liability, 
the claim reverted  to the policy and Admiral  paid A1s costs, so it had made an outlay.
It allowed Mrs Ps no claims discount, but the claim is recorded as property  damage,  as it 
hasnt been able to recover its outlay.
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I think  that Admirals  comments  in response to my first provisional decision  show just how 
confusing the position was for Mrs P. In December 2018, Mrs P chose the non-fault  service  offered 
to her following an assurance that she wouldnt have to pay the excess due under  her policy. But 
Mrs P was later asked to pay the excess. At some point, as A1 was unable to obtain an admission 
of liability, this became  a claim  against Mrs Ps policy. But Admiral didnt tell Mrs P that initially.
Admiral paid the repair  costs  in March 2019, but I cant see that it told Mrs P that this was now being  
dealt with as a claim against her policy before it paid the repair costs. Mrs P had been  told that she 
wouldnt have to pay the excess  due under  her policy  and Admiral didnt  explain to her in a timely  
way why that was no longer the case. The claim went  on for several  months.
For the reasons  I set out in my first provisional decision, I remain of the view that Admirals  action 
didnt cause Mrs P any loss. But Admiral didnt give Mrs P clear  and timely information  which caused 
her distress and inconvenience. I think  that fair compensation for that is additional compensation  of 
£250, taking the total to £500.
Ref: DRN13518535I intend  to direct Admiral to pay Mrs P additional  compensation of £250 in relation to her distress  and 
inconvenience. I said in my first provisional  decision that Admiral should provide Mrs P with written 
confirmation that it had recorded the incident in December 2018 as notification only,  but as there was 
in fact a claim,  thats  no longer appropriate. Admiral says that this has been recorded  as property 
damage, as it hasnt recovered its outlay. I dont  intend  to make any order about  how Admiral has 
recorded the claim  as it hasnt recovered its own outlay, but it should  give Mrs P written confirmation 
as to how the claim has been recorded and that her no claims discount was allowed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I intend to direct    Admiral 
Insurance Company  Limited to pay Mrs P additional  compensation of £250 in relation to her distress  
and inconvenience.  This is in addition to the £250 compensation it has already  paid her. It should  also 
provide Mrs P with written confirmation as to how the claim has been recorded and that her no claims  
discount was allowed.
Ref: DRN1351853