K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an early repayment  charge (ERC)  that Nationwide Building Society is 
telling Mrs and Mr B owe it after they repaid their mortgage in February this year. They  say 
Nationwide told their solicitor on the phone that no ERC was due.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers  involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mrs and Mr B when  my 
decision is published.
Mrs and Mr B took the mortgage out in the middle  of 2018. It was on a two-year  fixed rate 
and subject to an ERC  if they repaid during  the fixed period  2% in year one and 1% in year 
two. As is the norm  these days,  the terms of the mortgage included  a provision to port  (that 
is, carry over to a new mortgage, assuming it was approved) the rate from the existing 
mortgage and avoid paying  the ERC. If the port is partial (i.e. if the new mortgage is for a 
lesser amount than the existing one) then a pro rata ERC is payable on the difference 
between the old balance and the new balance.
Mrs and Mr B repaid the mortgage and took out a new one at the beginning of 2019. As this 
was within  the fixed rate period, an ERC of around £3,000 was payable. However, 
Mrs and Mr B were  porting  the fixed rate to the new mortgage, albeit for a lesser amount. 
The existing mortgage had been for around  £165,000,  the new one just under £65,000. This 
meant they were required to pay an ERC  on the difference between  the two sums, which  at 
2%, worked out at roughly £2,000.
When it was time to complete the transaction, Mrs and Mr B say their solicitor spoke to 
Nationwide on the phone  and was told no ERC was payable at all. Relying on that 
information, the solicitor  deducted the ERC from the amount quoted  on the redemption 
statement when remitting the funds to Nationwide.
Shortly afterwards, Nationwide contacted the solicitor  to say there was a shortfall  that 
needed paying because of the ERC  that was due. Allowing  for a monthly payment that had 
come through after redemption, the net shortfall was a little under £1,400, which  
Mrs and Mr B dont  believe  they should  pay.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr B have asked that 
the complaint  be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Ref: DRN19703102Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mrs and Mr B, as Ive come to broadly the same  conclusions as the investigator 
and for much the same overall reasons.
The complaint is simpler  than its been made to look.  The starting point is that, under the 
terms of the existing contract  between Mrs and Mr B and Nationwide,  the ERC  was  and as 
I understand it, still is - payable. Mrs and Mr Bs solicitor advised them of this in a letter to 
Mrs B of 30 April 2019, when she said:
Regrettably the early  repayment charge is still due from both you and Mr [B] as part 
of your mortgage agreement conditions. We reiterate our advice to you that you 
arrange to pay this immediately.
Much has been made of a phone conversation said to have taken place between  Nationwide 
and the solicitor shortly  before completion,  in which Nationwide apparently said no ERC was 
payable. Nationwide  has no recording of the call, so I cant listen to a recording  to decide 
what was or wasnt said. Indeed, Nationwide has no record of having received the call, but 
thankfully, it isnt necessary for me to make a finding  on whether the call took place as 
reported.
I say that because its not relevant to the outcome of the complaint. Even  if I accepted on 
face value that the call took place and Nationwide  said what its reported  to have said,  then 
yes that would mean Mrs and Mr Bs solicitor had been told no ERC was payable.  Whether  
that constituted  wrong information  or not would,  of course, beg the question of whether 
Mrs and Mr Bs solicitor  had made  it clear the port was only partial  rather than full. 
But in any event, where wrong  information has been given, we dont put the consumer in the 
position theyd  be in if wrong information had been right. We put them in the position theyd 
be in if the right information had been  given. Mrs and Mr B say they shouldnt have to pay for 
Nationwides mistake, but theyre not. Nationwides mistake, assuming it happened,  wouldnt 
have been to have expected Mrs and Mr B to pay an ERC they werent  liable to pay. It would 
simply have been  to have misinformed them, briefly, that an ERC wasnt due when it was.
Ref: DRN19703103my final decision
For the reasons  set out, my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr B to accept or reject  my 
decision before  18 December 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1970310