K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. acted  unfairly and unreasonably  by declining  their claim under a travel 
insurance policy. They want the claim paid in full, including the costs  of the GP report  that 
they obtained to prove  their claim was valid.
background
Mr and Mrs F had a travel insurance policy with Mapfre. They were due to travel,  but before 
they were about  to fly, Mr F was taken ill (having suffered with headaches for about two 
weeks) and seen at a hospital. Mr F also said that he was advised by a doctor not to fly, and 
this was confirmed  by the discharge notes. Mr F cancelled the trip and was unhappy that 
Mapfre refused to accept  the discharge notes  as evidence and required him to get a GP 
report at his own cost.  Mr F felt that this was unfair. The GP confirmed that Mr F had 
bleeding within his brain, needed further treatment, was advised not to travel and gave more 
details of Mr Fs medical situation.
Mr F complained to Mapfre. It said that the terms and conditions of the policy made it clear 
that medical evidence  had to be provided at the cost of the policyholder if a claim was made.
Mr F complained to us, saying that neither his claim in respect of not being able to travel nor 
the costs of the GP report  had been paid by Mapfre. Mapfre  provided evidence that it had 
paid the main claim, just not the costs of the GP report. The investigators view was that after 
taking into account  all the evidence and the comments of the parties, the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. This was because Mr and Mrs F agreed to pay the costs of getting  medical  
evidence required by Mapfre  to consider  any claim when they took out the policy.  The 
investigator didnt  think  that it was unreasonable for Mapfre to ask for information from the 
GP (and was standard industry practice), rather than just rely on hospital  discharge notes.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They said that insurance  should ensure that the policyholders 
werent at a loss financially and it wasnt fair that they had to pay for the GP report. They 
also pointed out that after the hospital visit, Mr and Mrs F had to pay an increased premium  
to continue to be covered,  but if another claim was made, medical evidence was still likely  to 
be required  by Mapfre. The investigator  didnt change his view and said that it was 
reasonable for an insurer to get medical evidence, even for declared  conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions  of the policy make it clear  that if medical evidence required from 
Mapfre to support any claim, its at the cost of the policyholders. This is standard  industry 
practice, as is requiring  a GP report.  This is because the GP can give further information 
about the medical history, any pre-existing conditions and the current health  of the 
policyholder (as well as the state of health  when a trip was booked).  This information isnt 
within the hospital discharge notes,  so I cant say Mapfre  was acting unfairly  or unreasonably 
by asking for the GP report or by requiring Mr and Mrs F to pay for it.
Ref: DRN12755962I note that an additional  premium was charged when Mr F declared his hospital visit in order 
to ensure cover continued. But this wasnt part of the original complaint.  And I note that this 
new issue is about the likely need  to provide further  medical evidence  if Mr F makes  a new 
claim. This service doesnt deal with hypothetical situations, but in general  we wouldnt 
regard a reasonable request for medical evidence for future claims by an insurer  as unfair 
treatment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 March  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1275596