K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains,  in summary, that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not do enough to help him recover  
all the money he had paid to a cryptocurrency trading platform using his HSBC VISA debit 
card. And this resulted  in his account  with HSBC defaulting. 
Background
After seeing an advertisement  for an entity  offering  cryptocurrency trading, O Ltd, Mr A made 
two payments  of £5,000 on 16 January 2018,  totalling £10,000 to it. But by the following 
month he was concerned when he tried to withdraw his available  funds but was 
unsuccessful. He also realised three  other companies similar  to O Ltd had taken payments 
from him around the same time without  his consent. That led him to approach HSBC  to ask 
the bank to retrieve his money.  
In March 2018, HSBC temporarily credited Mr As account with the disputed  amounts whilst 
it investigated  his concerns. O Ltd defended the chargebacks on the basis that it could 
provide evidence that linked Mr A to the payments  and he accepted  the terms and conditions 
when he logged into the account.  One of the other disputed  companies also defended a 
chargeback claim. 
In June 2018, HSBC made the decision to close  Mr As bank account and provided him with 
60 days  notice. In August 2018,  HSBC  wrote to Mr A to say that O Ltd had further defended 
one of the £5,000 claims,  so it would  re-debit Mr As account around  10 August 2018. Mr A 
had £1.98  at the time HSBC re-debited £4,999.99, leaving an overdrawn balance. Mr A 
contacted HSBC to complain and the bank issued  a final demand of the overdrawn balance  
to be paid within 21 days. 
Mr A paid his outstanding  overdrawn balance in full on 9 October 2018 but by this time 
HSBC had registered a default against  Mr As credit file. 
HSBC responded to Mr As complaint  on 22 January 2019  explaining his chargeback claim 
was rejected because  it didnt receive supporting documents from him. It further  explained, 
his account was closed  in accordance with the terms and conditions  of his account and the 
adverse information  was an accurate  reflection of his account conduct.  
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator  concluded, first of all, that O Ltd had operated  a scam and amongst other 
things, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  issued a warning about  it in March 2018 
which ought to have  been  evident to HSBC at the time of processing Mr As chargeback 
claim. He further found that O Ltds defence was weak and HSBC ought to have pursued 
the matter further  than it did. 
Our investigator wasnt  persuaded that O Ltds bank reclaimed the funds because  there was 
a larger gap than he wouldve expected to see between O Ltds  defence and HSBCs 
decision to re-debit  Mr As account.  He suggested that HSBC refund the disputed payment  
to O Ltd, plus interest  and remove the adverse information  recorded against Mr As credit  
record. 
Although Mr A accepted  the investigators recommendation,  HSBC did not respond.  HSBC  
asked for more time and it still failed to respond. After a delay of over three months  from our 
Ref: DRN13230882investigators response deadline  during  which time Mr A found  it difficult  to understand why 
the bank was taking so long  the complaint was passed to me to issue a final decision.  
 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Having done  so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached. 
Our statutory rules  provide   at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct  Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision  on the basis of what has been supplied  and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information  requested;
And that.
If a respondent  fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:  (1) proceed 
with the consideration of the complaint;  and (2) include provision  for any material 
distress or material inconvenience  caused  by that failure in any award  which he 
decides to make. 
Ive therefore concluded  that, in the absence of a response from HSBC,  it is fair and 
reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and to take account of 
HSBCs failure  to reply. 
To begin with, the only payment in dispute  is one payment of £5,000 to O Ltd as the other  
disputed payments were  either not defended by the various companies, or HSBC chose not 
to pursue Mr A for those  payments if they were.
Mr A explains that he was persuaded to open his account with O Ltd because of promises of 
early profits  but he quickly became  suspicious when he was unable to withdraw  his 
available balances. 
Our investigator looked into O Ltds background and determined, on balance,  that it was 
operating a scam investment trading platform. There was evidence  in the public domain at 
around the time Mr A complained to HSBC that O Ltd was unlicensed,  and that several of its 
apparent trading practices were indicators of fraud. The investigator also concluded that this 
should have been reasonably apparent to HSBC when it received  Mr As complaint  in 
particular the inability to withdraw his funds   such that the bank should have identified  that 
O Ltd was more  than likely operating fraudulently.  Furthermore, the defence submitted by O 
Ltd did no more than show that Mr A had provided  it with a copy of his personal  identification 
documents, along with a screenshot of a login page. The defence  did not prove  the terms of 
sale were not misrepresented as required by the VISA chargeback scheme rules. 
In all the circumstances, therefore,  I share the investigators view that HSBC should  have 
been more alert to the various  adverse indicators about the merchant at the time it 
processed Mr As chargeback claim than it apparently was, including when making the 
decision to not pursue  the claim further.  
Ref: DRN13230883The chargeback  scheme is voluntary  however this services  view is that it is good practice 
for a bank to always make a chargeback claim unless it is, for example, very evident on the 
basic facts  that it stands  no reasonable prospect of success. That was not the case here  
but, either way, HSBC  did indeed submit the requested chargeback using reason code 13.5 
(misrepresentation). 
In my view,  the core issue which underpins this complaint is about whether  if the bank had 
pursued the chargeback claim further than it did  would Mr A have  received his money  
back.
VISA introduced  reason  code  13.5 to specifically cover  instances where deceptive 
merchants, typically unlicensed (like O Ltd) prevented cardholders from withdrawing  their 
available balances. This required some specific evidence from Mr A  which he duly 
provided when  the bank  requested it of him. 
Ive seen that Mr A asked  HSBC to pursue the chargeback claim following O Ltds  defence in 
an email of 17 May 2018. HSBC sent a letter to Mr A on 24 May 2018 confirming his request 
to withdraw his claim  however, Ive seen no evidence that Mr A asked to withdraw his 
claim. I have  however seen a system note of 17 June 2018 confirming it had been more than 
30 days since pre-arbitration was raised and the account was re-debited. I dont see that Mr 
As account was re-debited at this time. Ive also not seen that HSBC pursued this matter  to 
pre-arbitration. In any event, Im not persuaded it appropriately handled  Mr As chargeback 
claim. 
It follows from this, therefore, that I consider  HSBC should  have pursued the chargeback 
process for the disputed  transaction further  than it did and if necessary, to VISAs arbitration 
stage as the final stage  in the process.  It is now too late for HSBC  to do so  but if it had 
done so it seems  more likely than not, in all the circumstances and on the balance  of 
probabilities, that he would  have  received a refund of that payment. 
Whilst it was HSBCs  decision to close Mr As account and it did so in accordance with the 
terms and conditions.  I find the registration of the default to have been premature.  HSBC 
had left a significant  period of time from Mr As last communication  about the matter  of the 
disputed transaction - where he expressed his strength of feeling for HSBC to pursue his 
claim - to make the decision  to re-debit his account.  I appreciate  it had issued a final demand 
letter but I think it would have been  fair for it to hold off until it had addressed  Mr As 
concerns about the disputed  transaction. Particularly since  Mr A paid the overdrawn balance 
a few days after the expiration of HSBCs  final demand and during  his dispute of the 
outstanding balance. So, I agree that it would  be fair for HSBC to remove  this adverse 
information and refund any interest  and charges caused by its decision to re-debit Mr As 
account. Because had it have pursued  the chargeback claim, as I think  it ought  to have, its 
more than likely he would  have recovered this money through that process. 
As HSBC had no comments to make, my final decision  is that I uphold this complaint for the 
reasons set out above.
Although most of Mr Ws distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts 
of O Ltd, I think HSBC  could have done  more to recover  his funds, which  would  have 
avoided much of the trouble and upset  caused. I also think HSBC could have done  more to 
protect Mr A from the impact of its statutory duty to co-operate  with our complaints process 
(DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority  Handbook). 
Ref: DRN13230884I therefore consider £300  compensation  for distress  or inconvenience to be appropriate. Im 
aware that compensation hasnt  previously  been  awarded. But given where  we are in the 
complaint journey,  and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience  is a matter  of 
discretion, I believe it should  fairly be paid in this case. 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr A:
The money he lost (totalling  £5,000) within 28 days  of receiving  notification  of his 
acceptance of my final decision;  plus
Interest (less any tax properly deductible)  at the simple rate of 8% per year on the 
payment from the date Mr A reported the fraud to the bank; plus
Any charges  caused by the re-debiting of the disputed transaction;  plus
£300 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused also within 28 days  of 
receiving notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue at 8% simple  per year (less  any tax) until payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1323088