K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2002. Mr and Mrs T say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
The loan was taken  out in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr T. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs T case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs T, so 
Ill explain  my reasons below.
I should start by saying  that there has been some  dispute about  how the loan and policy  
were sold.  Mr and Mrs T say that the loan was taken out over the phone  but Santander 
has provided information that the sale took place in branch. And while  I understand that Mr 
and Mrs T feel strongly about this, they havent provided any evidence that goes against 
what Santander has provided.
Mr and Mrs T say that they were  told that they had to take out PPI in order  to get the loan. I 
wasnt there at the time and cant know what was said, so I have to base my decision on the 
information I do have.  
Santander has provided some, but not all of the paperwork from the sale of the loan and PPI 
 a credit  agreement signed by Mr and Mrs T. I dont find this surprising  the sale took place 
a long time ago and businesses arent  required to keep records  indefinitely.  It has also 
shown that its sales  process at the time would also have included  a separate loan 
application form. This included two choices  for the PPI  to take it or decline the policy. It 
also confirms that they first applicant only will be covered  by the policy.
Nowhere on the form does it suggest that a policy is compulsory, or that an application 
would be looked  on more favourably by taking PPI. Mr and Mrs T would have had to sign 
this from for their loan.  Mr and Mrs Ts credit agreement includes PPI, which  suggests  that 
they selected it on their loan application.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  Santander made it clear that Mr and 
Mrs T didnt  have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr T affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and they 
seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
Ref: DRN14696982wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr and Mrs T has said - but these points  dont change  
my decision,  and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think  the policy was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs T any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1469698