K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about how Barclays Bank  UK PLC has treated him in respect of three
debts he has with it. In particular, he feels it is discriminating  against him, isnt following a
previous decision  issued by an ombudsman at this service, and that the debts are 
timebarred.
background
facts
On 9 May 2011,  an ombudsman at this service  issued a decision,  under reference 8767601.
It was in respect of three accounts  Mr H held with Barclays: a current account, a Barclayloan
and an Advance  loan.  As part of the decision, the ombudsman noted that Barclays had
agreed to accept pro rata repayment proposals that would be put forward  by PayPlan (which
is an organisation offering free help and advice regarding debt). It would then pass the
accounts to its recoveries department, where charges and interest would  be suspended. The
ombudsman agreed  this was fair. (There were  also three other elements to his decision,
regarding a refund of interest and charges, payment for a medical report, and £75
compensation. But as these arent relevant to the complaint Im looking at, I wont refer to
them further.)
As I understand it, a payment plan was put in place and there  were  no issues until the end of
2017/early 2018.  Then, in a letter dated 20 January 2018, Barclays  wrote  to Mr H to say it
hadnt received  a payment in the last 60 days.  It then sent him a further  letter dated
8 February 2018.  It explained that regarding the arrangement for the account ending -6086,
it hadnt received  the agreed  total of £19.14. Because of this, it was cancelling the
arrangement, and moving the account to debt recovery. In the letter, Barclays  said it had
contacted PayPlan and confirmed Mr H had been  treated as a vulnerable consumer,
because of his health conditions. But it wouldnt write off the debt, as it said Mr H has a
monthly disposable income.
In the letter  of 8 February  2018,  Barclays said it had contacted PayPlan on 25 January 2018
to ask if a reduced  plan had been  set up, and it says PayPlan said it would discuss  this with
Mr H. Barclays  put a hold on the account  for a month, to wait for a response.  As at the date
of the letter,  it hadnt heard back,  so asked Mr H to contact PayPlan to discuss  a new plan.
Following this, our service was told on 28 February  2018 that Barclays had liaised with
PayPlan, and agreed to accept £1 a month until April 2018, then a review  would take place.
Mr H has explained that he considers  Barclays actions to be in breach of the ombudsmans
decision from May 2011. He says the decision required Barclays to accept pro-rated
payments based  on his disposable income,  which  has recently  fallen. He said hed never
missed a payment,  but if his disposable  income  drops, Barclays  must accept a lower
payment. He refers  to Barclays  use of the word  concession in its letters to him, but
accepting lower payments  isnt a concession, its what the ombudsman  said it has to do. He
also said that he hasnt  made full payments  to his accounts since 1997, and Barclays has
never been to court  to obtain a judgment against  him.
Mr H has said that he would like Barclays to write off his accounts, as he has serious health
conditions. He feels hes being harassed  and discriminated against.
An investigator at our service looked into what had happened. But he thought  it was
Ref: DRN12717212reasonable of Barclays to seek  to recover the debts.
Mr H disagreed and asked that his complaint be passed to an ombudsman. While his
complaint has been with me, Mr H has contacted us to explain that the coronavirus
pandemic has affected his ability to work,  given his serious underlying health conditions.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, to explain my thoughts, and give Mr H and
Barclays the opportunity  to respond. I also addressed the new development of the impact
of coronavirus.
My provisional decision said as follows:
I note that this decision relates  only to Mr Hs three  accounts with Barclays that I
referred to above.  This is because Mr Hs complaint relates to these three  accounts  
including whether Barclays has followed our services previous decision in respect  of them.
Mr H has sent us a considerable amount of information, and Id like to thank him for this. I
have reviewed and considered everything  hes submitted. I will not refer to every  submission
hes made. This isnt intended as a discourtesy. Rather, it reflects the informal  nature of our
service. I have  focussed on what I consider to be the key issues  Mr H has raised.
First, I am sorry to hear that Mr H has ongoing  health conditions that are impacting his day-
to-day life. I understand this must be very stressful, particularly given concerns about
coronavirus. Id like to assure him that Ive taken this into account and very carefully
considered his complaint.
I will address the three elements of Mr Hs complaint in turn: (i) discrimination; (ii) not
adhering to a previous ombudsmans decision; and (iii) the time-bar.
Turning first to the issue of whether  Mr H is being  discriminated against. As I understand it,
he feels that given  his health  conditions  and the severe impact these have upon him,
Barclays should write off his three  debts.
It is not for me to decide whether or not Mr H has been discriminated against. This is the role
of a court. However, I am required to take into account the law, and what I consider to be fair
and reasonable in all the circumstances. Here, the law is the Equality Act 2010. The Act sets
out protected characteristics, including disability. It says:
A person (P) has a disability if -
(a) P has a physical or mental impairment,  and
(b )the impairment has a substantial  and long-term  adverse  effect on P's ability to carry out
normal day-to-day activities.
I accept, for the purposes of this complaint,  that Mr H is likely to be considered a disabled
person. So I need to think about whether what Barclays has done discriminates against Mr H
because of something connected to his disability.
Under section 15 of the Act, discrimination arising from disability occurs where both:
 A treats  B unfavourably  because of something  arising in consequence  of Bs disability,
and
 A cannot show that the treatment is a proportionate means of achieving  a legitimate
aim.
Ref: DRN12717213In this case, Im satisfied  that Barclays is owed money by Mr H. And I consider it reasonable
for it to attempt to recover these  sums.  I do not consider that it doing  so is connected to
Mr Hs disability. That said, it must  ensure its treatment is a proportionate means of
achieving a legitimate aim.
I consider that the aim of recovering the outstanding sums is legitimate  ultimately,  Barclays
is owed the money,  and Mr H had the benefit  of it. I consider it proportionate for Barclays  to
have written to him and addressed the matter with PayPlan. I would expect it to have
requested details of Mr Hs disposable  income, by asking for his income and expenditure
details. This is to be able to reach  a realistic  and fair repayment plan. Barclays has done
this, and I think this is fair and reasonable. As I understand  it, Mr H hasnt provided this
information (or, not recently). I would urge him to do so (through PayPlan if that is better  for
him), so Barclays is able to reach  an arrangement going forward.
I turn now to whether Barclays has adhered to the previous ombudsmans decision. Im
satisfied it has. That required it to enter  into a repayment plan, which it did. And this ran
successfully for a number  of years.  I know  that Mr H is going through  a very difficult  time,
and stopped making the agreed repayments.  Accordingly, Barclays  has written to him to try
to reach  a new agreement. This is what I would  expect it to do. This reflects  the changed
circumstances, rather than being  a breach of the previous decision.
Finally, Ive considered  whether the debts are time-barred by statute, given that it has been a
considerable time since Mr H made a full repayment. Again, my role is not to determine  this
 thats the role of a court. However, I do need to take into account the law. Here, that is the
Limitation Act 1980.
This provides, amongst  other things, that an action founded on simple contract shall not be
brought after the expiration of six years  from the date on which  the cause of action accrued
(section 5). In the case of debt-recovery proceedings, I believe that the cause  of action
normally accrues on the day after the debtor first defaults, as thats the earliest date on
which the creditor could  start legal action.  But section 29 of the 1980 Act also states  (my
emphasis) that:
where any right of action has accrued to recoverany debt or other liquidated
pecuniary claimand the person liable or accountable for the claim acknowledges
the claim or makes any payment in respect of it the right shall  be treated as having
accrued on and not before the date of the acknowledgement or payment.
Mr H has made payments towards  the debts  in the last six years,  and acknowledges he
owes the money. I accept  he doesnt  feel it fair he continues to pay it back. But this isnt what
the Act says. In this case, as its accepted the sums are outstanding  and Mr H has made
payments - I think it reasonable,  taking  into account the Act, that Barclays  may continue  to
seek recovery. It doesnt matter that the payments were  lower  than the contractual  sums. Its
enough that any payments have been  made.
For these reasons, I dont  think  Barclays has behaved unfairly. It has been  trying to work to
find a way forward, taking  into account  Mr Hs circumstances by asking for his income  and
expenditure. I think this is reasonable. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr H, but I 
think its fair taking into account  everything  thats  happened.
Ref: DRN12717214responses to my provisional  decision
Barclays didnt add anything further.
Mr H disagreed with my provisional  decision. In summary,  he felt that I havent properly 
taken into account  his health  conditions,  and the impact of coronavirus on his ability  to work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Mr H has underlying health  conditions. I understand that this must make  
things difficult for him, and very stressful. And that this is made worse by the current  situation 
with coronavirus.
That said,  a person having health conditions isnt, of itself,  a reason for me to say that any 
debts that person has should be written off. Rather,  Id expect a business to look carefully at 
the persons circumstances,  to find a way forward. Im satisfied that this is what  Barclays  has 
been trying  to do. It has asked for Mr Hs income  and expenditure details, so it is better  able 
to consider his situation. As I understand it, he can provide these through  PayPlan. I think  
this is fair and reasonable.
As Mr H hasnt  provided anything to persuade  me to depart from my provisional decision, my 
decision remains that I dont consider  Barclays to have acted unreasonably. My provisional 
decision therefore stands  as my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1271721