K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms B says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2000.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Ms B owed on her store card.  The policy would  have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Ms B couldnt work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Ms B that the policy was optional and get her consent  before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Ms B says she didnt ask for the insurance  and it was 
added to her account without her knowledge.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Ms B at the time of the sale and 
I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover   the name  used by FICL for 
PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Ms B has signed  the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Ms B didnt want to take out 
the PPI she could have left this section blank. And Ms B has signed the overall application 
form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Ms B 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
Both Ms B and FICL agree that no advice was given  about the policy at the time of the sale.  
And from looking at the paperwork  supplied, I dont think FICL recommended  the policy to
Ms B. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL  did need to make 
sure it gave Ms B clear enough  information about the policy to enable her to decide for 
herself if she should take the policy, based  on what  she knew  about her circumstances  
such as employee benefits  and other means.  
Ref: DRN18393962Its possible  the information FICL gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Ms B 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
she was already aware.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said, including what she has said about her husband  
being able to help meet the repayments if necessary. While I appreciate her husband would 
have wanted to help, support from others cant be guaranteed  as their circumstances can 
also change, meaning they are unable to provide  such financial assistance. So this point 
doesnt alter my decision.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Ms B has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1839396