K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the service  provided  by Barclays Bank Plc in handling  various 
investment accounts.
background
Mr Ts main complaints  are; delay in transfer  of his Pension Trading Account (PTA) to a new 
Barclays Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) account; delay in crediting money  in his 
Foreign Dealing Account (FDA) to the new SIPP; His inability to access his two Personal  
Interest Bearing  Shares (PIBS)  one of which is held jointly with Mrs T.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint which is attached and forms part of this 
decision. In summary  I made the following  points:
Barclays couldve done more  to action the transfer of the PTA given it was in effect 
an internal transfer. In an FRL dated  4 December 2017 Barclays  had acknowledged 
that waiting times for transfer  had been longer than it had liked and that it had 
experienced significant delays in transfer  to the new SmartInvestor platform.  It had 
also acknowledged in an FRL dated 11 April 2018 that it had taken Mr T complaining 
to get things moving.
It wasnt unreasonable to use 21 August 2017  as the date on which transfer  
shouldve taken  place.
Mr Ts calculated his losses due to delay based on five of his holdings dropping in 
value between 21 August 2017 and 29 September 2017. But there  was no way of 
knowing if he wouldve sold those holdings simply because  they were losing money  
as just because  a holding is dropping in value doesnt mean it should be sold. And 
there is no reason  to use the 29 September 2017 as the date at which he wouldve 
sold because if there  had been no delay  he wouldve been able to sell before this.
There was no significant  delay in transferring the cash  given Barclays process  is to 
await receipt of all money due before transferring and the last dividend  hadnt been 
received until 1 November 2017.
I didnt think there  had been any significant delay in transfer of the FDA given the 
evidence I had seen  indicated the transfer had settled on 24 October 2017 and was 
paid into Mr Ts Barclays SIPP  on 1 November  2017.
There was a period  of six months  when Mr T had been unable to do anything  with his 
PIBS which might  have  been  avoided if he had chosen one of the options Barclays  
provided when  it first told him it couldnt hold the PIBS on the new platform. But I also 
thought Barclays  couldve done  more to resolve the situation  sooner.
I had seen insufficient evidence there had been  delay in payment of the interest  on 
the PIBS
I had seen no persuasive evidence that Barclays had significantly delayed  the 
transfer of money from his Barclays SIPP at the end of December  2017.
 I wasnt persuaded that Barclays had done anything wrong in not processing trades 
in January 2018 given it explained  this was because  of the new MiFID and PRIPP 
regulations.
Barclays should pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
transfer of the PTA and a further £400  for the PIBS not being  available  to him for so 
long. In addition  it should pay the £450  it had offered him for not dealing  with his 
complaints as it shouldve done.
Ref: DRN17586672I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to take into account.
Barclays responded and said there was a misunderstanding in my provisional decision about 
the PIBS. It explained that the PIBS were held in the PTA which  was closed on 28 July 2017 
and that as the PIBS werent supported assets  under  the new SmartInvestor platform  they 
were added to the Barclays  Stockbroker account  where they werent visible  to Mr T. 
Barclays said it did write to Mr T on 27 December 2017 to say it would be able to move the 
PIBS to the new SmartInvestor platform in the near future and that the Barclays Stockbroker 
service was being closed off and that Mr T couldve called to transfer  the PIBS at any time,  
as he did in April 2018.
Barclays queried what more it couldve done as, it had given Mr T the options  he had and it 
was having issues  adding the PIBS under the new platform. It said it was undergoing a huge  
transition and provided adequate information  to Mr T about  his options, and the onus was on 
him to say what he wanted to do.
Barclays said it didnt dispute that its service had suffered at the point of migration  and it 
offered adequate distress and inconvenience for this. It said the transfer  of the PTA wasnt 
straightforward because  the original  account  was administered by a third party and although 
there are ways to fast track  such transfers  this depends on how quickly the administrators 
acted. It said they didnt provide instructions in good time which meant  Mr Ts transfer  
couldnt proceed in the normal way, as his SIPP  was being transferred  to the new 
SmartInvestor platform. 
Mr T didnt  accept the provisional decision in full. In short he made the following points:
Even in early October  2017,  two and a half months after opening the new SIPP  to 
hold the PTA assets, cash hadnt  been  transferred,  the FDA holdings  were 
unavailable and the PIBS matter hadnt  been settled. The ombudsman  described the 
lost opportunity as several weeks but it was several months.
The £400 is inexplicably  low based  on the information our service provides about 
awards for distress  and inconvenience.  He has 180 emails  on file and several dozen 
letters. An award of £5000 would be more appropriate.
I havent awarded anything for lost interest which is an oversight. One example is the 
sale of FDA on 9 October 2017  which shouldve settled  on 11 October  2017  but 
didnt settle until beginning of November 2017.  The lost interest  on this based on 
5.2% not the 8% we normally  allow is £870.
Has the ombudsman taken into account the size of the portfolio, which is high by 
normal retail standards.
The amount  of £400 I have awarded  for poor complaint handling is accepted.
The £400 for the issues  with the PIBS is reluctantly accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will deal with the points  made by each party separately.  In the main Barclays  take issue  
with the award  I made for what happened  with the PIBS and I will deal with that first.
Ref: DRN17586673Barclays said it gave Mr T options  and it was for him to tell it what he wanted to do. I 
acknowledged in my provisional decision that Mr T couldve exercised one of the options it 
had offered him and accept if he had done  so the issue with the PIBS wouldnt have arisen.  
But I dont think that means that when Mr T didnt exercise any of the options whatever then 
happened is all down  to him as Barclays infer. 
Barclays has questioned  what  more it couldve done. In answer  to that query  I note the letter  
that set out the options didnt provide  any explanation  of what would happen if Mr T didnt 
choose one of the options. So there  was no explanation that the PIBS would be added  to the 
Barclays stockbroker account  and wouldnt be visible to him. 
It is clear Mr T didnt  know what was happening with the PIBS because he emailed Barclays  
on 13 January 2018  and referred to the issues he had over the past few months trying to sort 
this out and that the PIBS had disappeared with his conclusion being that Barclays had 
fraudulently dispossessed him. 
Barclays also indicated that it would be able to add the PIBS to the SIPP account on the 
SmartInvestor platform  by the end of January  2018 but this didnt happen, and I have seen 
nothing to show Mr T was kept informed  of what was happening. 
I think Barclays couldve done  more  to keep Mr T informed of what  had happened to the 
PIBS and that he was caused  distress  and inconvenience because it didnt. I note Barclays 
acknowledged in its FRL of 19 March 2018  - in which it offered £150 for distress and 
inconvenience - that Mr Ts expectations may have been raised by the indication  it gave that 
the PIBS would be added  to his SIPP account.  In the circumstances Im not persuaded the 
amount I have awarded for distress  and inconvenience for this part of Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint is unreasonable 
Barclays has again provided the timeline for the transfer and has said the transfer wasnt  
straightforward as it involved third party administrators  who needed to confirm  the transfer 
and provide two signatures. I acknowledge  what it has said, but again Barclays  itself 
acknowledged there had been delays in transfer in its FRLs, and there  are indications within 
its own documents that there was no need  to delay transfer of the PTA - once  it had 
everything it needed - because of the transfer to SmartInvestor. Again, I am not persuaded 
the amount I have  awarded for distress and inconvenience is unreasonable.
Turning to the points raised  by Mr T, he has suggested that the period of lost opportunity, 
which I referred to as weeks, was in fact months.  The period I was referring to was the 
transfer of his PTA. Transfer of an account  isnt immediate  as he will be aware.  A reasonable 
amount of time has to be allowed for this. So it isnt appropriate to measure the period of lost 
opportunity from when he opened the SIPP account  as he has suggested.  
I wasnt satisfied that Barclays had done anything  wrong in relation to transfer  of the cash  
that remained in the account or was received  into the account, after transfer of the holdings 
at the end of September 2017. So I havent counted this as part of the period where he was 
unable to manage his account  as he wanted. In the circumstances Im satisfied  the period of 
lost opportunity is properly measured in weeks not months  and I still think  an award of £400  
for distress and inconvenience  caused by the delay in transfer of the PTA is appropriate 
despite what Mr T has said. 
He has referred to sending around  180 emails, and also written  letters.  But these dont  all 
relate to the transfer of the PTA,  and if they did I would find this was an unreasonable 
Ref: DRN17586674amount of emails. Some of the emails  I have seen relate to other  issues  he complained 
about, and I havent upheld all aspects of his complaint. 
The award I made was for the distress and distress and inconvenience in the period of delay  
in transfer of the PTA, which was around  five weeks for the holdings.  I acknowledge he 
wasnt able to manage his account  as he wanted in that time, but in making that award  I 
have taken account of the fact he wasnt totally prevented from managing  his account as he 
was able to make a trade at the beginning of September 2017. 
I note he has suggested an award of £5,000  is more appropriate based on the examples we 
give for such awards. But I dont think the distress and inconvenience caused to him 
warrants such a high award  which is at the top end of awards for what  we consider severe 
trouble and upset  as explained on our website. The example  given on the website  is where 
there is delay in payment of pension for a significant  time which  caused  reduced living  
standards. By comparison  I have seen nothing that suggests the period of delay was 
significant or that it affected Mr and Mrs T in terms of their day to day living.  
I acknowledge Mr T had a very large  portfolio. But Im not persuaded that this necessarily 
translates into a greater  award for distress and inconvenience. Someone  with a smaller  
portfolio which  contains  all their capital is just as likely to suffer  distress and inconvenience.
It wasnt an oversight that I didnt  award  lost interest  as Mr T has suggested. I havent 
awarded lost interest because Im not satisfied there  were any periods of significant delay 
that justified awarding  interest. Mr T has referred to the FDA as an example. But I said in my 
provisional decision that there wasnt any significant delay in respect of the payment of the 
proceeds of that account to him. From the information I have seen the trade settled on 24 
October 2017, two working days after he authorised this, and with the proceeds being 
received on 1 November 2017.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint to the 
extent set out. Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay Mr and Mrs £1,250 in total for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17586675COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the service provided  by Barclays Bank UK PLC in handling various 
investment accounts.
background
Mr T raised  several  complaints about the service provided by Barclays from August 2017 through to 
the first half of 2018. Mrs T is part of this complaint because one of the accounts complained about  is 
a joint account. But most of the issues relate to Mr T.
Mr Ts main complaints are; delay in transfer of his Pension Trading Account  (PTA) to a new Barclays 
Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) account; delay  in crediting money  in his Foreign  Dealing 
Account (FDA) to the new SIPP;  His inability  to access his two Personal  Interest Bearing Shares 
(PIBS)  one of which  is held jointly with Mrs T.
In addition to these main complaints Mr T raised  other issues which I will comment  on in my findings. 
Barclays provided various Final Response  Letters (FRLs)  to Mr Ts complaints.  In short it accepted it 
had delayed  transfer  of the PTA, had delayed  payment of money from the FDA and hadnt provided  
the service it shouldve  with regard to the PIBS. It offered a total of £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  and a further £450 for the way it had dealt with the complaints.
Mr T didnt accept the offer. He calculated  his losses as over £22,000 and wanted Barclays to pay this 
so he referred  his complaint  to us. 
One of our investigators said that Barclays had changed to its new SmartInvestor platform  as it was 
entitled to do. She thought that it had given sufficient notice  the PTA wouldnt be supported on the 
new platform.  
She also wasnt satisfied Barclays should pay any costs resulting from the time taken  to move the 
PTA to a new SIPP account with another business as it had given enough notice that online access to 
the PTA was going to stop. She said the overall  amount Barclays  had offered of £850 was 
reasonable.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. In short he said the following:
Barclays has failed throughout to act in accordance  with Principles 2, 6 and 7 as set out in the 
FCAs Handbook.
His extended family continues to experience serious delays in the management  of their 
financial affairs because Barclays hasnt kept to the Principles.
Barclays is responsible  for ongoing  delays which cause difficulty  in the family  managing their 
financial affairs.
The offer of £350 in addition  to the £500 previously  offered isnt acceptable but his offer of a 
hands down settlement still stands.
Barclays had nothing further to add and said its offers of £350,  £150 and £350 over all the complaints 
raised is reasonable.
As Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree with the investigator the matter  has been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN17586676I note Mr T has referred to Principles  2, 6 and 7 in the regulators Handbook. The Principles set out the 
fundamental obligations of a business. What I have to decide is what,  if anything,  Barclays did wrong 
and what redress is payable if it did do something wrong. 
If I find it did do something wrong there may have been some breach of one or more of the Principles. 
But I dont think it is necessary or helpful for me to make any finding  on any specific breach of the 
Principles in reaching  my decision, as this wouldnt change my decision or any redress I award.
I also note that Mr T has referred to ongoing  delays. But I am only able to consider the complaints he 
has made to Barclays. If there are issues that continued after his various complaints had been 
responded to, these will have to be the subject of a separate complaint.
Barclays has accepted it got things wrong and didnt  provide the service Mr and Mrs T were entitled to 
and has offered  redress of £850 for the distress  and inconvenience caused both by what  it got wrong 
and the way it dealt with the complaints themselves.
Mr T doesnt consider  this is sufficient. I understand his frustration with the delays that occurred. He 
had reason to contact Barclays  over a number  of months about  various issues that arose  with regard 
to his accounts and a joint account with Mrs T. But not all the issues he complained about were 
upheld by Barclays.
I set out below the issues  that Mr T complained  about.
The delay in transfer of Mr Ts PTA to the new Barclays SIPP account 
Barclays gave warning to its clients that existing PTA accounts  were closing to new business as from 
17 May 2017 and the service to all existing  accounts would stop as of 28 July 2017. But Mr T says he 
didnt get this initial letter and only became aware  the PTA was no longer going  to be available when  
he was sent a further letter  dated 30 June  2017.  In response to this Mr T opened a new Barclays 
SIPP account,  to transfer his holdings  into, on 14 July 2017.
The new SIPP administrator wrote to Barclays on 18 July 2017  to confirm that the existing PTA and 
FDA were being switched  to the new SIPP  account,  asking Barclays to amend its records.   
Barclays needed  a letter signed by two signatories  form the original administrator confirming it 
accepted transfer of the PTA account in-specie. This was sent by the original  administrator on 21 
August 2017  and Barclays  said it was received on 23 August 2017. 
It isnt clear why it took so long for Barclays to get the documents it needed and it seems to me that 
Barclays couldve done more to action the transfer given that this was, in effect, an internal transfer.
Although Barclays had what  it needed to transfer the PTA as of 23 August 2017  it sent an email to Mr 
T the following day saying it couldnt  process the transfer  request because  it was too close to 
migrating to its new SmartInvestor platform. It also explained that the transfer would now be treated 
as an external transfer rather than internal and could  take up to eight weeks.
This was obviously very frustrating for Mr T as evidenced by his communications with Barclays at the 
time. The value of his PTA was well over £5 million and he had a significant  number of holdings in the 
account. He managed his holdings but he couldnt do this effectively until the transfer had taken 
place. 
Given Barclays had said there would be no service  provided through  the PTA after 28 July 2018 Mr T 
understandably wanted  the transfer  to take place  as quickly as possible. But despite Barclays stating  
there was no service I note there  were some  purchases and sale of stock after 28 July 2017. So Mr T 
wasnt completely prevented from managing his holdings. Having  said that, he couldnt really see 
what was happening with those holdings  as there was no online  access so his management was 
Ref: DRN17586677limited. And I dont think access over the telephone allowed him to manage his holdings as he 
wouldve wanted to.
The in-specie transfer to the new account  was completed on 28 September 2017 with the transfer of 
all stock into the SIPP  as of that date. Mr T contacted Barclays in the first part of October  2017 about  
the cash  in the PTA which hadnt transferred. Some cash was transferred but some dividends  were 
received later on that month, with the last dividend  received on 1 November 2017 when the remaining  
cash in the account  was transferred - including  money received form the sale of a holding in the FDA 
which I comment on below.
Barclays acknowledged  in its FRL of 4 December 2017  2017  that waiting times for transfer had been 
longer than it wouldve liked and that it did experience significant delays on migration to the new 
SmartInvestor platform as it didnt have enough resources to deal with the number  of queries it had  
although it didnt indicate  when it thought the transfer of the PTA shouldve completed.  
In its FRL of 11 April 2018 it also acknowledged that it had taken Mr T to complain to get things 
moving and that he had to contact it again about  the cash balance.  I also note that in its internal 
communications there is an indication that the transfer  shouldnt have been delayed by the migration 
to the SmartInvestor platform in any event.
Mr T has calculated his losses as a result of delay in transfer of his holdings as £11,253. This is 
based on five of his holdings having  dropped in value  between 21 August 2017 and 29 September 
2017. I dont think using the 21 August  2017 as the date the transfer shouldve completed by is 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
I acknowledge Mr Ts attempt to value his losses. Given he actively managed  his account I accept  he 
may have chosen to sell certain holdings  that were losing money. But there is no way of knowing he 
wouldve done  so. Just because  a particular  holding  is going  down in value doesnt mean it needs to 
be sold. It may have been Mr Ts investment strategy to sell holdings that started  to lose value  but I 
havent seen any evidence this is how he managed  his investments.  
And even  if this was his strategy I think he is unlikely to have  sold on 29 September 2017.  He has 
only chosen  this date because it is when he first had access to his holdings after transfer to the SIPP. 
If the transfer hadnt been  delayed  there is no reason  to think he wouldve  sold on that date rather  
than some earlier date.
The cash was only fully transferred as of 1 November  2017.  Barclays explained in its FRL of 11 April 
2018 that it would normally  pay the cash balance once all interest and dividends payable had been 
received - although  it has acknowledged that Mr T had to contact it about the cash. 
But I also note that one divided wasnt received until 1 November 2017 which is when  the cash  was 
transferred. Given Barclays normal  process was to collect  in all the outstanding  dividends before 
transferring the cash its not clear there was any significant period of delay in transferring the cash. 
Delay in transfer of money in the FDA.
Barclays accepted that there had been a delay  in transfer of money  in the FDA.  It apologised  for the 
delay which it said resulted  from a failure to have sufficient resources in place to cope with the 
backlog of administrative  procedures. Mr T has indicated  that the settlement date for FDA holding was 
29 September 2017 and this was credited to his SIPP on 3 November 2017.
But from what  I have seen Mr T requested  the sale of his holding in the FDA around 9 October  2017 
and this settled on 24 October  2017  and was paid into his Barclays SIPP account on 1 November 
2017. So I dont think there was a significant period  of delay in relation to the FDA holding either
The PIBS
Ref: DRN17586678The PIBS were held in the PTA but couldnt be held on the new SmartInvestor platform  so couldnt be 
transferred to Mr Ts Barclays  SIPP. This is something he was made aware of before he began  the 
transfer of the PTA account to the new SIPP  account. And Barclays provided  several options he could 
choose as to what  to do with the PIBS. He didnt choose any of the options so these remained in his 
PTA.
The PIBS were no longer  available on the original platform as from the end of September 2017. As 
the account hadnt been transferred the PIBS  were  no longer  visible and simply  sat there without Mr T 
being able to do anything  with them and without  him being  able to see what was happening. 
In January 2018 Mr T was told by Barclays that it should be able to hold the PIBS on the new platform 
at the end of the month. But this didnt turn out to be possible so the holdings  remained inaccessible 
to Mr T. He was then told in a FRL dated 19 March 2018  that the PIBS  would migrate to Barclays 
Avelock platform after which he could place  trades, or transfer them.
So there appears to have  been a period of over six months where Mr T was unable to do anything  
with the PIBS. I accept this mightve been avoided if he had chosen one of the options Barclays 
proposed when it first explained the PIBS  couldnt be held on the SmartInvestor platform. But I also 
think Barclays  couldve done much more to resolve  the situation  sooner given he hadnt chosen any 
of the options and something needed to be done with the PIBS.
Mr T raised  another issue with the interest payments due on the PIBS which he says were  delayed.  I 
note the dates  he has referred to between  when  the interest was due and when  it was received but I 
havent seen sufficient evidence  that there was delay in the interest payments being credited  by 
Barclays.
Delay in transfer of around  £1.6 million
Mr T said there had been  a delay in transfer of this money from his Barclays SIPP at the end of 
December 2017. Barclays explained that the money had been issued  on 22 December 2017 and 
would normally take three to five working days to show in the account transferred to. I dont think this 
is unreasonable, and Mr T has indicated the money was received on 3 January  2018  five working 
days after the money  was withdrawn from the SIPP. So I dont think there was any delay in the money 
being received once  withdrawn  from the SIPP.  
I note Mr T has calculated losses based on there being a delay of three weeks. But this is based on 
the period from when  he first requested the transfer to when the money was received. And transfers 
of money are not immediate as Mr T will know. In the circumstances I have seen no persuasive  
evidence there was any significant delay in transfer of the money.
Inability to make trades in January 2018
Mr T wanted to carry out certain trades at the beginning of January  2018 but couldnt  do so. Barclays 
explained that this was because  of new MiFID and PRIPP regulations which had come into force  on 3 
January 2018. It said these  required it to provide certain information about assets that were being 
purchased but two firms  hadnt provided  the necessary information so it couldnt proceed with the 
purchases he wanted in relation to the products of those  firms. Im not persuaded  that Barclays did 
anything wrong with regard to not processing the purchases Mr T wanted to make in the 
circumstances.
What should Barclays do to put things right
The main issues are the delay in transfer of Mr Ts PTA and the time taken to resolve what  was 
happening with the PIBS.  
With regard to the transfer of the PTA I have explained  that I dont think  I can simply make an award 
on the basis that Mr T wouldve sold holdings that were losing value on 29 September  2017.
Ref: DRN17586679What he lost was the opportunity of managing  his holdings for several  weeks, and he couldnt see 
what was happening with these holdings. He may well have chosen to carry  out trades in the period  of 
delay which wouldve  reduced  losses or increased his gains but there isnt evidence  to support this so 
I cant  award anything for specific losses. I think  Mr T was caused distress and inconvenience 
because of the inability to manage his holdings and an award of £400 is reasonable for this.
With regard to the PIBS  I dont think there is any specific loss resulting from him not being able to 
access these. This didnt  affect the value and he hasnt suggested he was going to sell them at any 
time. But I think the fact these werent visible  to him for so long  so much so he suggested the 
possibility of Barclays having  defrauded him  and Barclays didnt provide  him with clear information 
about what was happening means he was caused distress and inconvenience. I think, given the 
period of time involved  an amount of £400 is reasonable  for this.
The above awards are for the specific issue I have identified. They are not for complaint handling  for 
which Barclays has offered  £450 which  I think is reasonable.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained above. Barclays Bank Plc has to pay Mr and 
Mrs T a total of £1,250.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1758667