K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that an international transfer he paid Thilina Sri Lanka UK Ltd (TSL) to 
undertake has not reached its destination and hasnt been refunded  either.
background
Mr L asked TSL, a money transfer business,  to undertake an international payment for him. 
He paid it the £1,000  he wished to transfer, together with a £5 fee. He received a receipt 
from TSL confirming the details of the transfer.  But the money didnt reach  its destination.
Some time later, Mr L got in contact  with TSL to find out why the money  hadnt  been 
received even though he paid for a four day transfer  service. It apologised for this, explaining 
it was having problems with its bank and was experiencing some technical  issues  but it 
would make the transfer as soon as it could.
Shortly after, TSL told Mr L the transfer  had been  made and asked him to check  if the 
payment had been received as sometimes its bank would hold payments. But the money still 
hadnt been received. Mr L continued  to chase TSL and then, unsatisfied with how it was 
handling things,  he raised the issue with this service.
Our investigator got it contact with TSL to let it know Mr L had sought our help to make a 
complaint and asked  it to issue  its final response. He asked it to provide its version of events 
but, despite repeated requests TSL, didnt respond. 
In the absence of any information  from TSL, our investigator said there was evidence  to 
show Mr L had paid TSL for the transfer  but nothing to show the funds had reached their 
destination or had been  refunded to him. He concluded therefore  that TSL should refund 
Mr L the £1,005  hed paid for the transfer and fee and pay him interest on these amounts. 
He said it should  also pay him an additional  £50 for the trouble  an upset it had caused him.
TSL failed to respond to these conclusions and so the complaint  has been brought  to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator.  Ill explain my reasoning.
In the absence of any information  or evidence from TSL,  Ive reached my decision on the 
evidence submitted by Mr L, on what I consider to be fair and reasonable and on the balance 
of probabilities, that is to say, what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr L has supplied a copy of his bank statement which shows  he made a payment of £1,005  
to TSL. Hes also supplied  a copy of a receipt issued by TSL confirming the details of the 
transfer it agreed to undertake. Ive seen  emails in which  TSL apologises for the problems 
Mr L has experienced and for the delays  in the money being transferred. 
Ive not seen any evidence which suggests  the transfer has either  reached  its destination  or 
has been refunded to Mr L by TSL.
Ref: DRN15218022From this, Im satisfied  Mr L paid for the transfer,  TSL agreed to undertake it but, on the 
balance of probabilities, the funds have not reached the destination  or been refunded  to 
Mr L.
Because of this, I think TSL should  refund Mr L the full amount  of the transfer  being  £1,000  
plus the £5 fee. It should pay him 8% interest  on top of this amount  from the date he paid 
TSL the money,  7 January  2019,  to the date it makes the refund. Additionally,  it should also 
pay him £50 to reflect the trouble and upset hes experienced as a consequence  of its 
failure. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Thilina Sri Lanka UK Ltd to pay 
Mr L:
£1,000, being the refund  of the transfer*
£5, being the refund of the fee it charged*
Interest on the above two amounts at the simple rate of 8% per year from 7 January 
2019 to the date it makes payment 
£50 for the trouble and upset  it caused
Thilina Sri Lanka UK Ltd must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which we 
tell it Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
* If Thilina Sri Lanka UK Ltd considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  and Customs if 
appropriate
Ref: DRN1521802