K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about five instalment loans that he took out with Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL),  which he said were unaffordable.
background 
Mr S was given five instalment loans by SL from July 2016 to August 2017.  A summary of 
the loans taken out by Mr S is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Repayment amounts  
1. 9/7/16 14/10/16 £100 13 weekly repayments of  
£11.01
2. 8/9/16 15/6/17 £100 52 weekly repayments of 
£3.83
3. 18/3/17 25/6/17 £100 3 monthly repayments  of 
£49.20
4. 24/6/17 25/9/17 £100 3 monthly repayments  of 
£49.20
5. 3/8/17 Unpaid £1,000 12 monthly repayments of 
£166
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mr S for details of 
his income and expenditure. SL also applied extra safeguards and buffers to Mr Ss declared  
expenses to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit check. It said that its credit  
checks didnt demonstrate that the loans werent affordable or sustainable at the point of 
application. 
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loans 2 to 5 should be upheld. She said that 
proportionate checks would have shown Mr S was having problems managing  his money  
and he had borrowed from other payday  lenders.
SL disagreed and said that its credit  checks showed  that at worst  Mr S only had one other  
agreement outstanding and no arrears were  identified. It also said that it didnt use bank 
statements in its checks. It didnt agree that Mr S was struggling financially.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to SL on 26 September  2019.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that when  SL lent to Mr S the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN13264832the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ss complaint.
I could see that SL had made  a number of checks before  it lent to Mr S. It had asked him for 
details of his income  and expenditure. Mr S had declared his monthly income as £950  and 
his expenditure  as £350 before Loans  1 and 2, his income as £1,665 with expenditure of 
£350 before  Loans 3 and 4, and income of £1,170  and expenditure of £475 before Loan  5. 
And SL had increased Mr Ss declared  expenditure in its assessments of Loans 1 to 5 to 
reflect what  it had seen  in its credit checks and internal models. 
Id also noted  that SL had checked Mr Ss credit  file before agreeing to the loans. SL had 
provided this service with a summary of its credit checks. I could see that before Loans  1, 3 
and 4 it said that there had been  one payday  loan account opened  in the previous three  
months (but not in the previous month). It also said that one credit account had just been  
opened before each  loan but there were no active credit accounts with payments in arrears 
in the previous six months before the loans. I didnt think that SL should  have  been  unduly 
concerned by these  entries. And other wise, I couldnt see any adverse information on SLs 
credit checks that I thought should  have caused  additional concerns to SL. 
Ref: DRN13264833Mr S had provided this service with a copy of his credit report. I could see there were 
numerous other short term loans shown on this report.
But I was also aware that when  a lender carried  out a credit check, the information it saw 
didnt usually provide the same level of detail  that a consumers credit report would  and it 
wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware  that not all payday and 
short term lenders  reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, this might  have  
explained any differences between the information provided by SLs credit check and Mr Ss 
actual situation.
I could see that Loan  1 was for £100  repayable by 13 weekly  repayments of £11.01. Id 
noted that Mr Ss monthly disposable  income after SL had applied its safeguards was 
£234.66
I thought that the checks SL carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. The 
repayments that Mr S needed to make on Loan 1 were relatively  modest compared to the 
income that hed declared to SL. And I didnt think the repayments  were so large that it was 
obvious they wouldve caused  Mr S financial difficulty.
So given Mr Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and that this was his first loan with the lender,  I didnt think  it wouldve been  
proportionate for SL to have asked him for the amount of information that would  have been  
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr S had provided  or the information SL 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I didnt  think  SL was wrong  to give Loan  1 to Mr S.
But Id noted from SLs notes that Mr S had missed  a couple  of repayments in the second  
month of his loan. Hed said that they were  missed due to his bank. But it appeared that hed 
settled the missed payments very quickly and had repaid the loan around the due date. So I 
didnt think any concerns which might have arisen  due to the two missed payments should 
have reached the point  where further more detailed checks for Loan 2 were  proportionate 
because of these.
Mr S had again borrowed £100  on Loan 2 but the weekly  repayment  amounts were much 
smaller, although repayable over 52 weeks. So he was committing  to making those 
repayments over a far longer  period.  Mr S had also had around  a months repayments left on 
Loan 1 at the time hed taken out Loan  2. SL had said that Mr S had a disposable income  of 
£235.49 before Loan 2 after its safeguards had been applied to Mr Ss expenses. And Id 
noted SLs credit checks didnt show any other payday loans in the previous three months.
Overall, I thought that the checks SL carried out before agreeing  Loan  2 were proportionate.  
The repayments that Mr S needed to make on Loan  2 were very modest compared to the 
income that hed declared to SL. 
So given Mr Ss repayment amounts, and what was apparent about his circumstances  at the 
time, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate for SL to have asked him for the amount of 
information that would have been needed to show the lending  was unsustainable.   
Ref: DRN13264834And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr S provided or the information SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to give Loan  2 to Mr S.
But despite  the relatively small amount  of Mr Ss weekly repayments on Loan 2, it appeared 
hed missed around seven weekly repayments before hed taken out Loan 3. All the missed  
repayments appeared to have been repaid within three weeks  of their due date. Mr S had 
referred to having  problems with his bank, having another bill to be repaid, a need to transfer  
funds into his bank  and at other times  he didnt  know  why his repayments  had been missed. 
I thought that behaviour might have  caused  SL serious concerns about Mr Ss finances. And 
whilst he was still repaying  Loan  2, Mr S had applied for Loan 3. This was again  for £100 to 
be repaid by three monthly repayments  of £49.20. 
Id looked at the overall pattern of SLs lending history with Mr S, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point  at which the lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so SL should have realised that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, Id thought that point was reached by 
Loan 3. Id said this because:
Mr S had applied for Loan 3 whilst he still had Loan 2 outstanding and he had 
already missed around seven  repayments on Loan 2 for various reasons. This 
suggested that he was having  difficulty repaying  Loan 2.
Mr S had taken out a loan of £100 over eight months earlier and he was now asking 
for a loan of the same amount without any break in his borrowing since  then. He 
hadnt made any inroads into his debt over this time and had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to SL over an extended  period. 
I thought that Mr S had lost out because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mr S had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so had 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Id noted that SL had said that it didnt agree that Mr S was struggling financially. But I 
thought that Mr Ss repayment record on Loan  2 and his need  to borrow  whilst he still had a 
prior loan outstanding  suggested that he had significant difficulties managing his money. Id 
also noted that SL had said that its credit check didnt demonstrate that Mr Ss loans were 
unaffordable. But Id said that SL would have known  from previous decisions (as well as 
what was set out on our website) that there were cases where this service considered the 
overall lending  pattern  and not just the affordability of each  loan. When  a consumer 
borrowed numerous loans  over a long period of time,  it was most likely that the loans werent 
being used for their intended purpose  of temporary  cash flow problems. As SL knew,  the 
FCA made it clear in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost lending  firms  that a high volume of 
relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns. And I thought  that 
was the case  here.
Ref: DRN13264835Subject to any further representations by Mr F or SL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint about  Loans  3 to 5 and that SL should put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what SL needs  to do
with regard to Loans 3 to 5, refund all the interest and charges that Mr S has paid on 
these loans;
pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 5;
apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5 and 
pay any balance to Mr S; 
remove all entries about  Loans 3 and 4 from Mr Ss credit  file; and
remove all entries about  Loan 5 from Mr Ss credit file once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say that he agreed with it. He also asked 
whether he could add two loans taken out with SL since Loan 5 to this complaint. 
SL hasnt provided a response  to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
With regard to Mr Ss request to add his two recent  loans to his complaint,  I have  asked the 
adjudicator to tell Mr S that he will need  to raise  a new complaint with SL about these loans.
Given that Mr S has otherwise agreed with my provisional decision and SL has given me 
nothing further  to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require SL to pay Mr S 
some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
1.With regard to Loans 3 to 5, refund all the interest and charges that Mr S has 
paid on these loans;
Ref: DRN132648362.Pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 5;
4. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5      
and pay any balance to Mr S; 
5. Remove all entries about Loans  3 and 4 from Mr Ss credit file; and
6. Remove all entries about Loan  5 from Mr Ss credit file once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1326483