K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) unfairly  increased  his 
motor insurance premium.
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
background
Mr B held insurance with RSA for many  years. RSA invited him to renew  his policy  in 2019 
but said that the premium would increase significantly. After  he complained RSA offered him 
a discount but Mr B didn't  accept that and took a policy  from a different insurer. RSA offered 
Mr B £30 as a gesture of goodwill for delays in dealing with his complaint. But it otherwise 
thought it had dealt with Mr B fairly.  
Our adjudicator didn't think  RSA had done anything wrong. Mr B didn't agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I've looked  at Mr Bs complaint very carefully and given the sharp  rise in his premium  and 
the fact hed been a loyal customer  of RSA I can understand why he felt the need to 
complain. But that doesn't necessarily  mean  that RSA has treated him unfairly.
I think its important to be clear that were  not the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. So its not my role to say how much  an insurer should charge, what  
factors it should assess when offering  policies,  or how to go about those assessments. And 
we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk and to satisfy  their wider 
commercial requirements.
RSA has provided us with some  information  explaining the increase in Mr Bs premium.  That 
information if commercially sensitive so I cant share it with him. But I can reassure him that 
it wasn't because of any claims information  as he suspected - but rather  because  of the 
manner in which RSA assesses risk and its review  of its pricing.
So, when RSAs  quoted Mr B a renewal premium, that covered not only the cost of the risk 
he presented but also ensured it wasn't  operating at a loss. Companies like RSA are in 
business to provide a service but also to make money. And theres  nothing  wrong with that. 
If theyre not profitable  theyre unlikely to exist for too long. It follows  that when offering 
premiums to their customers, businesses  like RSA need to balance  the need  to cover the 
risk with their desire to retain  a customers business  while still earning a profit.  And thats 
generally a matter of commercial judgement.  And as long as theyre  treating their customers 
fairly, that is theyre not singling individuals out, thats not something that we think  its fair to 
interfere with.
Having looked  at the information RSAs provided, I don't think its singled Mr B out, as I think  
it would  have treated  customers  with similar circumstances in a similar way. Im aware that 
Ref: DRN17084522Mr B was able to find cheaper polices with other insurers.  But each insurer will make  its own 
assessment of the risk a customer presents and calculate a premium  based on that 
assessment. So the fact that one insurer may assess a customer as presenting  more  of a 
risk - and so charge a higher premium - than a different insurer,  doesn't  mean that the 
insurer with the higher  price is doing  anything wrong. It follows  that I don't think  the fact that 
Mr B found  a cheaper policy  with another insurer meant RSA was treating him unfairly. And 
as he knows, he was under no obligation  to accept RSAs quotes.  So I think  it dealt  with Mr 
B reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1708452