K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold by 
Black Horse  Limited (Black  Horse) alongside  a loan in 2009.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 16 September 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. My provisional decision explains, in full, the 
background to this complaint and my provisional  thoughts.
Broadly summarised I considered the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold.  I couldnt  fairly say that 
Black Horses recommendation  for Mrs F to be covered for life and critical illness  was 
unsuitable. 
And I hadnt seen  enough to suggest Black Horse incorrectly set up the policy in Mrs Fs 
name instead of Mr Fs name. 
So I was of the opinion that Black Horse did not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs F.
But Black Horse did have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. As Black Horse had already done  this  I 
thought it didnt need to do anything more.
Black Horse  confirmed it received my provisional  decision  and didnt have  anything  further to 
add.
Mr and Mrs F responded disagreeing with my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F responded to my provisional  decision in detail. I know  that Mr and Mrs F feel 
very strongly  about this complaint. I would like to assure Mr and Mrs F that I have carefully 
reviewed all of their testimony, not only in response  to my provisional  decision, but all of their 
testimony and concerns  they had raised about  what happened with the sale  prior to my 
provisional decision. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs F  but having  reviewed their further comments  Ive seen 
nothing that changes my opinion.
Mr Fs main argument is that he is adamant  that he was told he had to have PPI to be 
accepted for the loan. And as PPI was added,  it should have been in his name.
As explained in my provisional decision,  Black Horse provided  the questionnaire that was 
completed by the adviser when Mr and Mrs F applied for the loan over the phone.
Ref: DRN18095702The questionnaire resulted in Black Horse making  no recommendation for PPI for Mr F. So 
no accident and sickness cover and no unemployment cover.  And Black Horse,  based on 
Mr Fs answers  to the questionnaire didnt recommend  life and critical illness  cover either. 
Had Mr F, as he suggests, been  told that he had to have PPI in order  to have the loan, then 
it follows that Black Horse would have  not only had to record  the answers to the 
questionnaire differently   indicating that Mr F had a need  for cover,  but it would also have  
had to add PPI (and possibly life and critical illness cover) in Mr Fs name. So I cant  agree 
that Mr F was told he had to have  PPI when Black Horse didnt recommend  PPI to Mr F, and 
it didnt add it. 
From reviewing the questionnaire  Im satisfied  that the answers  given by Mr and Mrs F, in 
response to the questions  asked, led to the recommendation made by Black  Horse. That 
recommendation was for life and critical illness cover for Mrs F only.
Following that, as explained in my provisional decision, who was covered and what  they 
were covered for, was clearly set out on the loan agreement.
Mr F argues that cover wasnt required for Mrs F as he was the only one working and 
meeting the repayments. But Black Horse made its recommendation based on 
Mr and Mrs Fs answers. As Mrs F had indicated an interest in life and critical illness 
protection  it made a recommendation for that cover.  In my provisional  decision I looked to 
see if this recommendation was unsuitable. Having looked at the terms of the policy I 
couldnt see that Mrs F wasnt eligible for the cover or couldnt have benefited from it should 
she have needed  to. And I remain  of the opinion that there is nothing to suggest  
Black Horses recommendation  wasnt suitable.
Mr F says that he had income  protection cover through the company he worked for and Mr F 
suggests that this is another reason that he would have only taken out PPI if he was told he 
had to. But as explained earlier  Black  Horse didnt recommend or add PPI in Mr Fs name.  
Mr F, in the questionnaire, clearly indicated that he had didnt  want PPI and could meet his 
repayments if he was unable to work because of an accident or sickness (maybe because of 
his income protection cover) so Black  Horse didnt recommend or add PPI in Mr Fs name. 
Mr F says he has had compensation  back in relation to other PPI policies sold by other 
providers. And on those policies the PPI was in his name. While Mr F may have  had other 
PPI policies in his name  I have to give consideration that there  was also an earlier  loan 
taken out in Mr Fs name only whereby he didnt take PPI. And on this loan, based on Mr Fs 
answers, Black Horse didnt  recommend Mr F take PPI. So I cant  say that Mr F always  took 
out PPI, when the evidence suggests  that isnt always the case.  
Mr F says that he cant understand how Black Horse  was correct to protect  Mrs F and not 
him. As explained,  this was the recommendation Black Horse made to Mr and Mrs F 
following their answers  to the questionnaire.  
I note that Mr and Mrs F wanted to know how much commission compensation they received 
as they felt it wasnt significant. 
Ref: DRN18095703The compensation offered was £311.26 which  was paid in March 2018.  Having  looked  at the 
amount offered Im satisfied Black  Horse has offered fair compensation that is in accordance 
with the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules and guidance, and remedies the unfair  
relationship caused by the non-disclosure of the high level of commission  and profit share  it 
received from the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold. 
I cant fairly say that Black Horse Limiteds recommendation for Mrs F to be covered for life 
and critical illness was unsuitable. 
And I havent seen  enough to suggest Black Horse Limited incorrectly set up the policy  in 
Mrs Fs name  instead of Mr Fs name.  
Black Horse  Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. As this compensation has been  
paid Black Horse Limited doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18095704Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy sold by Black Horse  
Limited (Black Horse) alongside a loan in 2009.
background
In 2009 Mr and Mrs F took out a loan in joint names. The loan and PPI application were  completed 
over the phone.
Mr F was the first named borrower and Mrs F the second.
The PPI policy they were sold was a life and critical illness  policy which provided cover  for Mrs F only.
When Mr F suffered from a major medical condition in 2011 and tried to claim  under the policy, he 
says he was devastated to find out the policy  was not in his name and was only in Mrs Fs name.
Mr F says he was told he had to have PPI otherwise he wouldnt have been able to take out the loan. 
He also says he was the main earner so the cover should have been in his name and he cant  
understand why either he or Mrs F would have agreed to Mrs F being the only one covered. Mr F has 
explained that Mrs F wasnt working much, and shortly after the loan was taken went  on maternity 
leave. Mr F says he was, in essence, solely responsible for meeting the loan repayments  so the PPI 
should have been in his name.  Mr F also says that on other loans he had always  sought insurance 
protection.  
Because Mr F considers  the PPI should  have  been  in his name,  he wants Black Horse  to consider 
and honour  the claim that he attempted  to make in 2011.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. They  considered  the information suggested that Black 
Horse provided a recommendation to Mr and Mrs F after assessing their circumstances and abilities 
to meet their repayments. Our adjudicator was satisfied that the recommendation  made  was to cover 
Mrs F only for life and critical illness.  They  also considered that this was supported by the credit 
agreement which had a separate section for the insurance which Mr and Mrs F had signed.
Overall our adjudicator  concluded there wasnt enough to suggest that Black Horse  had done 
anything wrong. 
As Mr and Mrs F disagreed,  the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
While the complaint was waiting for an ombudsmans  decision,  Black Horse, following some rules  and 
guidance issued by the financial regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), offered Mr and 
Mrs F some compensation for the level of commission it received  on Mrs Fs policy which  it hadnt 
disclosed to Mr and Mrs F and which  was unfair.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
First, I would like to say sorry for the time that Mr and Mrs F have been waiting for an answer to their 
complaint. I can see that they feel strongly about their complaint and it has taken  a long time to reach 
this stage. 
I would like to assure Mr and Mrs F that in reaching my provisional findings I have carefully 
considered their submissions alongside the information provided by Black Horse.
Ref: DRN18095705Having done so, I am currently of the opinion that I agree with our adjudicator and for the same 
reasons. Im minded not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
I know this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs F so Id like to take this opportunity to explain 
why.
In 2009, Mr and Mrs F took out the loan and the PPI over the phone. 
Black Horse no longer  has a copy of the call recording  from 2009.  Due to the time that has passed I 
dont find this surprising. Businesses arent required to keep  call recordings indefinitely. This means I 
dont know what exactly was said or how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs F.
Mr F says that he was told that he had to have the PPI.
But the policy  that was sold was only the life and critical  illness policy. No accident, sickness or 
unemployment cover  was taken.  And the policy  was only in Mrs Fs name. 
so what  happened?
Black Horse says that during the call it assessed Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  and abilities to meet  
their loan repayments.  It carried out what it calls a Demand and Needs Questionnaire. Black Horse 
has also provided  a copy of the call script that it says its advisers would  have to follow. And based on 
this, and given what I know about Black Horses sales process,  I think it is more  than likely  that the 
adviser would have  followed  the script and completed the questionnaire.
The questionnaire enabled Black Horse to assess a consumers ability to meet  their loan repayments 
and make a recommendation for protection  so any element of the PPI (meaning any combination of 
accident and sickness, unemployment and life and critical  illness).
Black Horse has provided a copy of this questionnaire and Mr and Mrs F have seen a copy  of it also.
As Mr and Mrs F have  had sight of the questionnaire,  I dont think  it is necessary to go through  exactly  
what it says. 
I can see the questionnaire  sets out that Mr F is the first named borrower and Mrs F is the second 
named borrower.
From reviewing the questionnaire it seems  clear to me that both Mr and Mrs F were satisfied that they 
could meet their repayments if they were off work due to an accident  or sickness  or if they became 
unemployed. 
So the adviser didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs F take out accident,  sickness or unemployment 
cover.
With regards to the life and critical illness  section it says:
Without undue hardship for you or your dependants,  do you have enough insurance  or 
employee benefits  to:
Repay the balance outstanding on this agreement if you were  diagnosed with a 
critical illness or suffered  loss of life?
Black Horse has recorded  Mr Fs answer as dont  know  and Mrs Fs answer as no. 
Ref: DRN18095706The questionnaire goes on to say: 
Would you like your agreement to be repaid  if you were diagnosed with a
Critical illness or were to lose your life?
Black Horse has recorded  Mr Fs answer as no and Mrs Fs answer as yes. 
And from this, I can see that Black Horse  made its recommendation as:
Our Personal Recommendation  to You (based  on the answers you have kindly provided)
First Borrower  No Cover Second Insured Life  Critical Illness
Importantly, following this Mr and Mrs F were sent their credit agreement.
Within the credit agreement there is a section for Mr and Mrs F to sign for the loan and a separate 
section for Mr and Mrs F to sign for the PPI.
I can see that within the separate section for PPI on the credit agreement, the PPI is described as 
Optional Payment Protection Plan. And it states:
I wish to purchase the optional  Payment Protection Plan at the level of cover shown  below. It will cost 
£36.31 per month payable directly, by me, to the insurer. Total Cost over the Minimum Duration  of this 
Agreement £2,178.60*
Borrower: Mr F Joint Borrower  / Additional Named Person:  Mrs F
Level of Cover: None Level of Cover: Life Critical Illness 
Mr and Mrs F were  required  to sign right beneath this statement, so I think  Black Horse made  it clear 
who was covered  and what level of cover had been chosen. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F say they just signed without looking,  but as explained  above, Im 
satisfied that who was covered and what they were covered for was made clear  by Black Horse. Also, 
Mr and Mrs F were  signing  a legal credit  agreement, so they also had an obligation  to make sure that 
what they were  signing for was correct. 
Mr F says that he always  took out insurance  on other loans and it was always  taken out in his name. I 
dont doubt that but I have to also bear in mind  that the loan taken  in 2009 was refinancing a loan 
from 2007.  The loan taken in 2007 was in Mr Fs sole name and he didnt opt for any insurance. So I 
appreciate that in most instances Mr F may well have taken insurance, but I cant  say for certain that 
is the case  when there is evidence that he didnt  always  opt for insurance.
Overall, it seems to me that Black Horse assessed Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances through  its 
Demand and Needs Questionnaire and based on the answers Mr and Mrs F provided, made  a 
recommendation. 
Based on everything  I have  seen, and from what I know of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances, I cant say 
that the advisers recommendation  was unsuitable. Mr and Mrs F indicated they did not want accident, 
sickness or unemployment cover  so Black Horse didnt  recommend  those parts  of the cover.  And as 
Mr F wasnt sure about life and critical  illness cover, Black Horse didnt make a recommendation to 
him for that cover either. But as Mrs F had indicated an interest in life and critical  illness protection   it 
made a recommendation  that she be covered in that eventuality. Having looked  at the terms of the 
policy I cant  see that Mrs F wasnt eligible  for the cover or couldnt  have benefited from it should  she 
have needed to. So it seems to me that Black Horses recommendation was suitable.
Mr and Mrs F then signed  to confirm their agreement to the cover being  set up through the credit 
agreement, which I am also satisfied shows that Black Horse made it clear  as to who was covered  
and for what  they were covered for.
Ref: DRN18095707All things considered, I am sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs F but I dont think the PPI policy was mis-
sold. 
I cant  fairly say that Black Horses recommendation  for Mrs F to be covered  for life and critical illness  
was unsuitable. 
And I havent seen enough to suggest Black Horse incorrectly set up the policy  in Mrs Fs name 
instead of Mr Fs name. 
what else have I considered?
Following the FCA issuing some new rules about how businesses should  deal with complaints about 
PPI, Black Horse has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. And this is 
because: 
Black Horse got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Black Horse  didnt tell Mr and Mrs F, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I think  the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I wont be telling Black 
Horse to do anything more.   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am currently of the opinion that the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold. 
I cant  fairly say that Black Horse Limiteds recommendation for Mrs F to be covered for life and critical  
illness was unsuitable. 
And I havent seen enough to suggest Black Horse Limited incorrectly set up the policy in Mrs Fs 
name instead  of Mr Fs name. 
So Black  Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Black  Horse Limited does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this  so 
Black Horse Limited doesnt need to do anything more.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1809570