K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Black  Horse 
Limited, trading  as Land Rover Financial  Services (LRFS) has been  of unsatisfactory 
quality and that LRFS have been unwilling to write off the outstanding finance.
background
Mr H took receipt of a used car in September 2016. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with LRFS. At the point  the car was supplied  to him it was about four 
months old and had completed 3,000  miles.
Mr H has had problems with the car. The dealership have bought it back off him but he feels  
LRFS should waive the balance on his account  because the car was of unsatisfactory  
quality. A brief history  of the faults  reported on the dealerships job cards  is as follows:
date issue action
2 September 2017 windscreen washer warning 
light.resolved under warranty.
2 March 2018 Engine Management Light 
illuminated. no fault found but software 
updated as precaution.
15 September 2018 rear brake  discs and pads  
noted to be corroded during 
servicereplaced under warranty.
22 January 2019 tailgate problem  and 
corroded fuel cap.tailgate adjusted, latch and 
fuel cap replaced. 
4 April 2019 Mr H complains to LRFS.
16 April 2019 power steering  fault and 
battery warning light 
illuminated. Reports of a 
burning smell.No faults found.  The 
battery has been checked 
on four occasions  and has 
needed recharging  twice.
LRFS didnt support  Mr Hs complaint. They were not persuaded there  was evidence the car 
had, or was developing, faults  at the point of supply, when  they said they were  responsible  
for its quality.
So Mr H referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
noted that all of the issues Mr H had complained of had happened more  than six months  
after hed taken  receipt of the car. He wasnt persuaded there was sufficient evidence  the 
faults were present when the car was supplied to Mr H. He thought some of the issues  could 
reasonably be related  to wear and tear. So he didnt think there was evidence the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  And, as he didnt think this was the case, he didnt feel it was 
necessary for LRFS  to waive the outstanding  balance on Mr Hs account. That, he said, was 
always payable under the terms of the finance agreement.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings.  He said it wasnt right for brakes  to need 
replacing on a car after such  a short  time and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN14261762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr H so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then LRFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr H. The car here 
was quite new so I would  not expect  it to have much  wrong with it.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask LRFS to put this right. 
But LRFSs  responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Ive not seen evidence that Mr H reported any problems with his car until hed had it for 
almost a year. The subsequent problems have spanned  a further one and a half years. Ive 
considered each of the failures  but I dont think theres been sufficient evidence  to suggest 
the faults were  present at the point of supply. I think its more likely that the faults  highlighted 
have developed at a later stage. 
Mr H says he should not have had to replace the brake discs  and pads after only 9,000  miles 
but whilst  this is a little early I dont  think it would be fair to suggest its as a result of a fault 
with the car. I think its reasonable to suggest  that brake wear depends on several factors 
including driving  style and I dont think I have  evidence that the brakes  failed because  they 
were inadequate  or failing at the point  the car was supplied.
Im therefore  not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  this car was of unsatisfactory  
quality. I therefore  would  not expect  LRFS to reduce the balance  owed on Mr Hs finance 
Ref: DRN14261763agreement as Ive not seen sufficient  evidence they were in breach of the finance agreement 
they had with Mr H. I understand LRFS have made a goodwill offer to discount the balance 
owed on the agreement but Im not asking  them  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1426176