K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs trustee  in bankruptcy, on Mr Hs behalf,  has complained about the compensation 
Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) has offered following a complaint that it mis-sold Mr H 
payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background
Mr H took PPI with three loans he had with BOS. Loan one was from September 2000 to 
June 2002, loan two from June 2002  to June 2003 which refinanced  the first loan. And loan 
three, from June 2003 to July 2005 which refinanced the second loan. 
Mr H took PPI with all three loans. He paid for the PPI upfront and borrowed more  money  to 
pay for them. These are called single premium policies. 
Mr Hs financial  circumstances  changed  as he lost his job. He was declared bankrupt in 
November 2004.
Mr H complained to BOS that he had been  mis-sold the PPI. BOS agreed and offered to pay 
compensation of £686.51 for loan one, £946.42 for loan two and £8,386.92 for loan three  a 
total of £10,019.85. The offers  were net of tax and payment  was made to the Official 
Receiver who still had an interest in Mr Hs compensation.  
Mr H has said that if he had not been mis-sold the policies,  he wouldnt have been made 
bankrupt. He has also said if the policies had paid out when  he claimed after he had been 
made redundant, it would  have given him enough  time to find another  job or make further 
arrangements to repay the debts. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. She concluded that BOS had calculated 
the compensation as we would expect  and she couldnt see that the PPI mis-sales had been  
the sole cause  of his bankruptcy. She didn't know why BOS had turned down his claim for 
redundancy but if it hadnt, she didn't think it would have prevented  him from going bankrupt.
Mr H didn't agree. As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been  passed to me for 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As BOS has already  upheld Mr Hs complaint,  I wont  be looking at how the policies were 
sold to him. I will only be considering whether the offer BOS has made  is fair, whether it was 
the PPI that caused his bankruptcy and his comment  about the rejected unemployment 
claim. 
Mr H says he could have  used the money  he paid for the PPI premiums  to repay his loan 
and he would have  avoided bankruptcy. He says that if hed not paid for the PPI each month 
he would  have been able to make  the loan repayments. 
But I dont agree. No one knows  how Mr H would have used the small extra  amount he may 
have had each  month  if he had not paid for the PPI. For the final loan, which  refinanced the 
Ref: DRN12258752previous two loans  so was the most expensive, the cost of the PPI was around  £66.00  of the 
total loan repayment cost.  It is just too speculative for me to say that Mr H would have set 
aside the PPI premiums  and used them to pay off the loan, rather  than pay for any other 
essential outgoings at clearly what was a financially challenging time. 
I think it was an accumulation of things  that led to Mr H entering  into bankruptcy. But he had 
agreed to make the monthly loan repayment  to BOS, and he was no longer in the position to 
make those repayments. Clearly he had other  outgoings as well so I cant know how much 
longer he would have been  able to get by before entering bankruptcy  but for the cost of the 
PPI. 
The simple  interest payment included with BOSs offer is intended to compensate  Mr H for 
the loss of the use of the money he paid for the PPI. And the rate used  in line with the 
regulators guidance  reflects the fact that there  are costs and losses  involved.  
The interest added to the compensation  considerably increased  the amount offered  it isnt 
a reflection of how much  Mr H had actually paid for the PPI. When  Mr H entered into 
bankruptcy the amount  recorded was £44,913.79. And at that time the total he had paid 
towards his policies since the first loan was taken  was £5,312.49 (which included the interest 
for the borrowing for the PPI), compared  to the £10,019.85 paid in compensation. So I 
cannot agree that the premiums he was paying  for the PPI would  have made a significant  
change to his financial circumstances and allowed him to make the loan repayments, 
thereby avoiding bankruptcy.
Mr H has said that if the policy had paid out his claim  it would have allowed him sufficient  
time to get his finances in order and carry on making the loan repayments. Like the 
adjudicator, I dont know why the claim was rejected. Mr H can contact the insurer  of the 
policy if he wants to take this further.  But Mr Hs comments havent  made  me reconsider my 
decision as it has been agreed the PPI was mis-sold in the first instance. So its as though 
he never had the PPI.
I fully understand  that Mr H will be disappointed with my decision.  He has clearly been going  
through a difficult  time. Id like to assure him Ive carefully thought about what he has told us. 
But based  on the information  and evidence I have, I cant conclude that by him paying for the 
PPI it was the cause  of him entering bankruptcy. 
Ref: DRN12258753my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think the offer of compensation made  by 
Bank of Scotland Plc to settle the complaint about the mis-sold PPI policy with Mr Hs loans 
is fair. And I dont agree the PPI was the sole cause of Mr H becoming  bankrupt. So 
Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt need to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask The Insolvency 
Service to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1225875