K821x#15Complaint
Mr H and Ms A complain  that ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance Group  (ZAD) paid only a 
proportion of their medical expenses  claim under  their travel insurance policy. 
My references to ZAD include its agents.
Background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional findings by way of a provisional  
decision, which included  the relevant background. A copy  of it is attached below, and it 
forms part of this final decision. I proposed that ZAD should  pay the balance of the medical 
expenses claim that Mr H and Ms A had incurred, with 8% simple interested annually from 
the date the claim  was submitted to the date of settlement. 
I invited Mr H and Ms A and ZAD to give me any more evidence  and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. 
Both Mr H and Ms A and ZAD didnt say whether or not they accepted my provisional 
decision. They also havent told us they have anything  more to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion I did in my provisional  decision.
As I said in my provisional findings,  I dont think  ZAD have treated Mr H and Ms A fairly by 
relying on the policy conditions which say the policyholder must contact the insurer before 
incurring costs and costs above  £500  not authorised by us will not be covered to restrict 
Mr H and Ms As claim to the £500 limit. 
So this final decision confirms the findings and proposed  settlement as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things  right
As Ive reached the same conclusion  as in my provisional decision, ZAD Bulstrad Vienna 
Insurance Group must  do the following:
pay the balance  of the medical  expenses claim in accordance with the remaining 
policy terms, plus 8% simple interest  annually from the date the claim was submitted 
to the date of settlement*
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance  Group  must 
follow the instructions  Ive set out above. 
Ref: DRN10580252Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
*If ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance  Group  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Mr H and Ms A how much its 
taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN10580253Copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mr H and Ms A complain  that ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance Group (ZAD) paid only a proportion of 
their medical  expenses  claim under their travel  insurance policy. 
My references  to ZAD include its agents.  
Background
Mr H and Ms A purchased  a holiday, and at the same time they decided  to take out a travel insurance 
policy as they were  aware they didnt  have  an EU medical card. 
Whilst on holiday, Mr H and Ms A were leaving a restaurant when Ms A fell down  and broke  her 
ankle. An ambulance  was called and after Mr H had agreed  to pay for medical assistance Ms A was 
transported to a medical centre. Ms A had her ankle x-rayed to identify the type of break and was 
given painkillers to ease the pain before being  discharged.  The following day, Ms A was visited by the 
doctors to give her painkillers so she was able to fly home on their original flight.
When theyd returned home, Mr H contacted ZAD to claim for Ms As medical expenses. ZAD initially  
said they were declining the claim  as Mr H hadnt contacted them within  48 hours of Ms As injury and 
before hed incurred costs of £500. They said this was clear on the policy Mr H and Ms A had taken 
out.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the key facts document hed been given said he had to call as soon as 
possible to speak to ZAD which he felt hed done and that the various  policy documents  hed received  
were contradictory. 
ZAD looked  at the claim again and said it hadnt  been declined, but they also said costs above £500 
not authorised  in advance werent covered. So they agreed to pay the claim to a maximum  of £500. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He felt that if ZAD were agreeing to pay the £500 they should pay the 
whole claim. He asked ZAD which hospital they wouldve  sent Ms A to instead of the private  one if 
hed contacted them when the accident happened. When Mr H didnt receive a response,  he asked 
this service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt the key facts  document was 
clear that it should be read together with the policy terms and conditions  which included the 
significant exclusion and limitation section. She also said she was satisfied the terms and conditions 
were clear that any costs  over £500 would need  to be approved before going ahead with any 
treatment.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt the key features  shouldve  had the main  exclusions and relevant  terms 
included and that the different timescales were ambiguous. He also felt because ZAD hadnt 
responded to say if there was an alternative public medical service available, this was their admission 
that there was no alternative option  so the claim should be paid in full. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im thinking of coming  to a different outcome to our 
investigator. Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN10580254I need to consider whether  I think  its fair and reasonable for ZAD to rely on the policy exclusion it has 
quoted to limit Mr H and Ms As claim payment to £500. And in the circumstances I dont think  it is.
Mr H feels  that the documentation from ZAD is inconsistent and they feel they followed the process 
based on the key features  document theyd received. ZAD said they feel the documentation is clear 
that everything should be read together.  Ive looked at all the documents  Mr H and Ms A were  given 
but I dont think its necessary for me to make a finding on this point.
Its a condition of the policy that the policyholder must contact the insurer  before incurring costs  - the 
policy says costs above  £500  not authorised  by us will not be covered.  However, insurance  industry 
guidance suggests that the rejection of a claim for a breach of condition is unreasonable unless the 
circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. And I havent seen  any evidence here that 
ZAD have  been disadvantaged by Mr Hs failure to contact them in advance.
ZAD said they would only pay £500 towards the claim as Mr H and Ms A as they hadnt contacted 
them before incurring any costs, and therefore  didnt allow ZAD to mitigate their losses. Mr H asked 
ZAD to confirm where they wouldve sent Ms A instead of the private  hospital   but they didnt 
respond. 
I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr H to be concerned about getting Ms A medical help, rather 
than think about calling ZAD to tell them  what had happened. Mr H said he didnt call the ambulance  
and wasnt aware it was taking  Ms A to a private hospital rather than a general  one. Given the 
circumstances of the accident, I dont think its unreasonable for him not to have  known this.  
Ive looked at the invoice Mr H received  and I think Mr H would only have been  aware that hed spent  
more than this once  Ms A had been treated  and hed received the invoice. And given that Mr H and 
Ms A were intending to travel home on their original  flight and part of the bill they received was for 
painkillers to allow Ms A to travel home, I dont think this was unreasonable.  
Ive seen that when Ms A initially called ZAD she was told her claim  has been declined  as she didnt 
contact ZAD within 48 hours. However, as Ive explained above, I dont think  it was unreasonable  of 
Mr H and Ms A to call once they returned to the UK as they were travelling back  during the 48 hours - 
and mitigating their claim  by coming home on their originally planned  flight. I also dont think  its 
unreasonable that given the timing of the incident, Mr H and Ms A were more concerned about  being  
able to catch  their flight home  as planned - rather  than contacting ZAD which they could do when they 
returned to the UK the next day. 
So overall, based on the circumstances  of this case, I dont think its fair and reasonable for ZAD to 
rely on the policy condition mentioned above to restrict Mr H and Ms As claim to the £500 limit.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
I intend  to direct ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance Group to do the following:
 pay the balance of the medical expenses claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms, 
plus 8% simple interest annually from the date the claim was submitted to the date of 
settlement*
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
*If ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance  Group considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest it should  tell Mr H and Ms A how much its taken  off. It should 
also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1058025