K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)  mis-sold her an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) in November  2008. 
Mrs L says that she was led to believe that it was the only option  available  to her and that 
she didnt need  the benefits  it provided. Mrs L says she feels that BOS took advantage of 
her as she was vulnerable  at the time.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and he didnt  think the packaged  account  
had been mis-sold. Mrs L disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and Ive taken that into 
consideration when looking at this complaint.
Mrs L says that the URCA was the only account  offered to her. However,  at the time Mrs L 
had a fee-free  joint account, so I think that she was aware that fee-free accounts were 
available and that she didnt have to agree  to the URCA if she didnt want  it.
I understand that Mrs L also felt taken advantage of as she says she was feeling vulnerable 
at the time. And I appreciate that BOS  was probably trying  to persuade Mrs L to open a fee-
paying URCA, but I also think that Mrs L was aware that she could say no if she didnt  want  
it. For example, Mrs L herself has said that she went along with the sale as she didnt want  
to rock their boat  suggesting she was persuaded into agreeing to it rather  than misled  or 
pressured into getting it.
Therefore, based  on everything I have seen, Im not persuaded  that BOS acted in an 
unreasonable manner. On the contrary, I think Mrs L was probably persuaded into agreeing  
to open an URCA knowing she did not have to but, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, she 
now believes  it to have  been the wrong  decision and poor value for money. But that in itself 
doesnt mean that the account  was mis-sold.
BOS says that the account was sold on a non-advised basis,  whereas Mrs L says that she 
was advised to take out the account.  However, for it to be an advised sale BOS would need 
to have reviewed Mrs Ls circumstances and then recommended  a product that met those 
needs. But, going by Mrs Ls testimony, I dont think that happened  here.  So, on balance,  I 
dont think the URCA  was sold on an advised  basis.
This meant that BOS didnt have to check if the account was appropriate for Mrs Ls 
circumstances. But it did still have to give her enough information about the account and 
associated benefits  so that she could  decide  for herself whether to open it or not.
Ref: DRN11062152I can see that Mrs L has contacted the travel insurer several times over the years  shes held 
the account. So, she was clearly aware  of this benefit. And in trying to persuade Mrs L to 
open the URCA, I think its likely  that BOS wouldve mentioned the other benefits that it 
came with. And Mrs L seems  to be aware  that she would have to pay a monthly  fee for the 
account. Therefore,  its clear that Mrs L was given some information about  the account 
benefits and its cost.
However, I appreciate  that Mrs L might not have been given all the important information that 
she shouldve been. Mrs L says that she had an existing medical condition at the time.  And it 
was necessary for account holders to contact  the travel insurer to check that theyd be 
covered for such conditions. Its not clear  if this was explained to Mrs L or if she did tell the 
insurer about her condition. If it wasnt made clear to Mrs L, I need  to consider what  wouldve 
happened if she had been told and, based  on the nature of the condition, I think  its likely 
that her condition wouldve been covered by the insurer  (either for no further  cost or possibly 
for a small additional premium). And I think its likely  that Mrs L wouldve wanted to be 
covered for her condition so wouldve declared  the condition to insurer  had she known about 
the need to do so. So even if this term had been made clear, I dont think anything different 
wouldve happened. 
So based  on Mrs Ls circumstances, Im not persuaded that she wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the URCA, had she been  given even more information about it or that there was 
something she was not told that caused  her a financial loss.
Over all I am not persuaded that this account  was mis-sold or BOS.  I therefore dont think it 
would be appropriate  to require BOS to refund  Mrs Ls URCA account fees.
I appreciate that Mrs L may be disappointed by this, but I hope I have been able to explain 
the reasons why I cant find in her favour.  
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1106215