K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled  a claim made  
under his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr P renewed his car insurance with Admiral in October 2017. The following month Mr P 
was involved in a road traffic accident  when  a lorry pulled out into his car. He called Admiral 
to let it know about the accident and to make a claim. But Admiral  couldnt locate Mr P as 
being insured  through it. It took several hours  for Admiral to confirm he was insured by which  
time Mr P had been  left to deal with the matter  himself.
Mr P complained about his experience and that he had to arrange his own car hire (as the 
policy provided for a courtesy car). Admiral agreed  the service  it had provided had been 
poor. It offered £500 for the distress  and inconvenience this matter caused, which was later 
increased to £750.  It said it would  considering  reimbursing any reasonable car hire costs.
The car was taken in for repair, but when  it was returned the tyre was flat. Mr P paid for a 
new tyre himself. The bolt covers also needed  to be redone, and so the car was taken  back  
in for repair.  Mr P complained about this and Admiral offered £100  for the tyre and £100 for 
the further distress  and inconvenience this had caused. 
When the car was returned it had a warning  light on, which needed to be looked into. Mr P 
complained again. It transpired the car had a faulty headlamp which  was replaced by the 
main dealer.  Admiral offered a further £100 for the continued inconvenience. The car 
continued to show  warning lights which the main  dealer looked into and discovered  a faulty 
sensor. 
Mr P is unhappy with how the claim had been  handled and that he hasnt been fully 
reimbursed for the cost of the tyre or the hire car. Our adjudicator asked Mr P for evidence  of 
the costs hed paid. Mr P provided a quote  for EuropCar, although this wasnt  the business 
he hired a car through. He said the business didnt provide him with an invoice and its no 
longer in business so it isnt something  he can now obtain.  He did, however, provide  a bank 
statement showing a £700  cash  withdrawal, which Mr P says was for the car hire. He didnt 
provide any invoice for the tyre. 
The adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt  uphold  it. He was satisfied Mr P had 
been fairly compensated for the issues he experienced  when making his claim.  And he 
found Admirals offer to reimburse further costs on provision of an invoice  for the hire car and 
tyre fair. He wasnt satisfied the information provided  by Mr P was sufficient to meet that. 
Mr P has asked  for the matter to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find that Admiral has 
already fairly settled  this matter. 
Mr Ps car has been repaired. And any further issues  regarding warning lights would appear 
to be connected  to a sensor rather than a poor repair. Indeed, no evidence  has been 
Ref: DRN14498162provided that the faulty headlamp or the faulty  sensor was connected to the accident or the 
subsequent repair.  
I accept that Mr P was put to some  considerable trouble when initially making  his claim. And 
it must  have  been particularly distressing  for him to think he might not have been insured 
and to be left stranded on the side of the road. Admiral agrees  it should have done much 
better both with regards  to having  clear records about Mr P being  insured, but also its staff 
doing what they said they would. Admiral paid £750 for the distress and inconvenience  he 
was caused. I find this to be fair for the level of impact this must have had, at what was 
already a difficult and stressful  time. 
Its disappointing that Mr Ps car was returned  with a flat tyre and that the bolt covers needed 
redoing. And Admiral  was right to pay further  compensation  for this - £100. It also paid £100 
for the cost of the tyre. Although Mr P has provided  an invoice this was in his name,  not an 
invoice from the garage  or other place he bought  a tyre from. So Im not persuaded this is 
sufficient evidence of the cost of a replacement tyre. And so I dont ask Admiral  to pay 
anymore towards the cost of a replacement tyre. 
Mr P had to return the car several more times  because of warning  lights. However, I 
understand this was due to a faulty headlamp and then a faulty sensor.  As mentioned above, 
there is little evidence those issues arose because of the accident or any subsequent repair.  
I find Admirals  further payment of £100  to be more than fair for this, particularly as it isnt 
clear this is something Admiral is responsible for. 
I turn now to the hire car. I can see from Admirals records  that it has said it would consider 
reimbursing reasonable  costs on provision of an invoice showing what Mr P paid for a hire 
car. But Mr P hasnt been able to provide an invoice from the hire business.  Mr P has 
instead provided a quote  from an entirely  different business. I dont think  this isnt sufficient 
evidence of what Mr P paid. And although  he has provided a bank statement showing a cash  
withdrawal of £700, this money could have been  used  for any number of things. I therefore  
find no basis on which to ask Admiral  to reimburse  £700. Of course, if Mr P is able to provide 
better evidence of his cost of hiring  a car, then Admiral should review  that. 
Overall, Im satisfied Admiral has recognised the failings in its customer service during this 
claim. Mr P was caused  considerable  inconvenience, and no doubt,  distress as a result of 
this. And so its right that any compensation payment reflects that. Im satisfied its payments 
totalling £950 (plus £100  for the tyre) reflect the impact this has had on Mr P. So I make  no 
further award. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1449816