K822xcomplaint
Ms C complains about the amount of time it took GE Money Home Lending Limited to 
release a charge on her property, following the settling of a secured loan she had with them. 
She is also unhappy with the customer service she received. 
background 
Ms C had a loan with GE Money, secured  through  a charge against her property. She paid 
the loan off in full in 2006.  
In 2018, Ms C instructed solicitors as she began the process of attempting  to sell her home. 
It was at this time that it was noticed  that the charge against the property had not been 
released in 2006,  despite  the loan having been  settled. 
Ms Cs solicitors wrote to GE Money  regarding this in September  2018  and asked for the 
charge to be removed.  Due to the amount of time that had passed GE Money no longer had 
Ms Cs account records readily  available.  They  spent some  time looking into the matter.
GE Money  then wrote to Ms C in October  2018,  confirming that they had no interest in the 
property and had now sent a charge removal request to their redemptions team. Later  in 
October 2018, they then wrote to Ms Cs solicitors confirming that the request was with the 
redemptions team and would  be passed  to GE Moneys solicitors. It said it can take the 
solicitors up to 56 days for the charge removal  to be sent to the Registers of Scotland. 
Ms C remained unhappy  that the charge hadnt  been removed in 2006 and with how long it 
was taking, so she brought  her complaint to our service to investigate. GE Money then 
provided a response  to her complaint in July 2019.  They confirmed for the first time that the 
charge against  the property had been removed on 15 February 2019. 
GE Money  recognised they had made  an error in not removing the charge in 2006. They 
also recognised  that the service they provided to Ms C since  she raised the issue  could have 
been better.  In this final response  they offered her £225 to compensate for the 
inconvenience this had caused. Our investigator felt that this was a fair resolution to the 
complaint as it compensated Ms C for the inconvenience caused.  
Ms C remained unhappy  and wanted an ombudsman to decide on the matter. She said that 
she had lost out financially as she would have  sold the property had there not been a 
charge. And that not being able to has meant increased costs  and borrowings.  She has also 
said that it has caused her significant  trouble and upset. 
Whilst the case awaited review by an ombudsman, GE Money increased their offer to Ms C 
to £325. This was because they had not told Ms C until July 2019 that the charge had been 
removed in February 2019. Ms C didnt accept this offer. So I will decide the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
GE Money  accept that they should  have removed the charge in 2006.  Having considered  the 
matter, I agree the charge  should  have been  removed  in 2006, given Ms C had repaid the 
Ref: DRN13873172loan. Ill go on to decide whether I think GE Money has fairly compensated Ms C for the 
impact its mistake has had on her. 
Ms C has said that she has lost out financially  due to the charge not being removed when it 
should have been. She has said that she would have moved into a smaller property, and not 
being able to has seen her incur  increased living costs and a need to borrow  money. Whilst I 
sympathise with Ms Cs current situation, I do not believe  that she would  have moved 
property sooner had the charge not been  there.  I say this because the charge was 
eventually removed in February 2019  and Ms C has still not placed her property on the 
market. 
Ms C has said that due to personal financial reasons, she needed  to purchase a HomeBuyer  
report. As this has now expired, she will need to purchase another one before selling the 
property. She believes  that GE Money should  carry the cost for this second report. However, 
I dont agree. A seller needs  to put their house  on the market within twelve  weeks  of the 
completed HomeBuyer  report. I am not satisfied that this would have happened had the 
charge been removed  correctly. This is because  the property has still not gone on to the 
market now, more than twelve  weeks after Ms C found out the charge had been removed.  
So, I dont agree that GE Money should  cover  the cost of a second report.  
Ms C also feels  she has lost out financially as her solicitor is charging her for their 
involvement. I can see that they were involved and did contact GE Money  regarding  removal 
of the charge. However, I dont  think it would  be fair to ask GE Money  to cover the cost of 
the solicitors time in contacting them, when  this is something that Ms C could have done 
directly.  
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms C has lost out financially  because  of GE Moneys mistake. 
But I do think shes been caused unnecessary distress  and inconvenience.  I say this 
because not removing the charge sooner and the handling of it, has had some impact  on  
Ms C.
However, as well as not removing  the charge when it should have, I do think  that GE Money 
could have handled this situation better. They acknowledge  that due to the amount of time 
that had passed, they no longer had Ms Cs details readily available. This meant her having 
to relay her complaint issues on several occasions. GE Money has confirmed  that Ms C 
does now have an account number if she needs  to contact them with any queries. 
GE Money  has also said that they wrote  to this service about  the charge having  been 
removed when they should have  written directly to Ms C. They  have also apologised for not 
letting her know sooner  that the charge had been  removed in February  2019.  Ms C has said 
that this situation  has impacted on her mental  health. I acknowledge that this was an 
uncertain time for her and not knowing when it will be resolved will have impacted on this. 
GE Money  have made an offer of £325 to compensate her for the impact  of these errors. 
Considering the time that Ms C spent having to resolve this and the inconvenience  and 
upset caused,  I think  this is fair and wont be telling them to do anything  further. 
my final decision
GE Money  has already made an offer to pay £325  to settle  this complaint, and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that GE Money Home Lending Limited 
should pay Ms C £325, if they havent already done so. 
Ref: DRN13873173Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1387317