K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly  cancelled  his car 
insurance policy as if it didnt exist. Mr W made  a claim  following the theft of a motorhome. 
background
Mr W bought a car insurance  policy through a comparison website in May 2018 to insure a 
motorhome with Admiral.  The motorhome was registered to somebody  else and that person 
was paying for the motorhome under a finance  agreement.
In June 2018 Mr W made a claim to Admiral as he said the vehicle had been  stolen. Admiral 
investigated the claim and discovered  that Mr W had told it the vehicle was a campervan  
when he bought his policy. But because the vehicle was a motorhome, this meant  that 
Admiral wouldnt have  insured it. Admiral  said if it had known this was the type of vehicle  
Mr W insured  with it in May 2018,  it wouldnt have provided cover.  
Admiral decided to cancel Mr Ws policy as if it never existed. This meant Admiral didnt deal 
with Mr Ws theft claim.
Mr W asked us to look at his complaint. Our adjudicator thought Admiral had acted 
reasonably.
Mr W didnt agree. He believes it was for Admiral to check whether the vehicle was one it 
could insure when he applied for the policy and provided the registration details. So hed like 
an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
When Mr W applied  for his policy  with Admiral, he entered the registration details for the 
motorhome. Admiral said its system didnt recognise the vehicle  and so Mr W was then 
provided with a drop down menu  of vehicles to choose from. Mr W selected  that the vehicle 
was a campervan. He said the reason for this was because there was no option to select a 
motorhome. This suggests that Mr W was reasonably  aware that the vehicle was a 
motorhome.
Admiral says the reason why there was no option to choose a motorhome is because it 
wasnt a vehicle it provided cover for. The V5 registration document  for the vehicle says its a 
motor caravan. 
Mr W wasnt able to pay for his policy online, so he spoke with Admiral. Admiral  has 
provided a recording  of a call Mr W had with an agent. At one point Mr W referred to the 
vehicle as a motorhome, but then corrected  himself and called it a campervan. Admiral 
asked Mr W if the vehicle  was a camper  as he had selected from the options on his 
application. Mr W agreed. 
Ref: DRN10872612Admiral relied on the information Mr W gave  it when he applied  for the policy.  He described  
the vehicle as one that Admiral was able to insure.  But the information Mr W gave Admiral 
wasnt correct.
The V5 and finance documents   along  with our own search  of the vehicle make  and model 
 all describe it as a motorhome or caravan. So I think Mr W misrepresented  the facts  to 
Admiral when he bought his policy. 
In cases of misrepresentation, we look at the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosures  and 
Representations) Act 2012  otherwise known as the act. Its not a requirement  for Admiral 
to check with the DVLA what type of vehicle Mr W wanted  to insure when  he bought the 
policy. The onus was on Mr W to provide correct information to Admiral which   provided its 
question was clear   it can therefore  rely on. 
I think Admiral  was clear when Mr W applied for this policy  because it didnt provide cover 
for motorhomes. Mr W confirmed that he received his policy documents   which list the 
vehicle as a camper   based on what Mr W told Admiral. So I think  Mr W had a further 
opportunity to correct  the information  with Admiral  but he didnt do this. 
The reason  why Admiral  provided cover was because Mr W selected a type of vehicle from 
the list Admiral gave  but this information  wasnt correct.  Under  the act, if Admiral  finds  that 
the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless,  it can keep the premium  Mr W paid under 
the policy. From the call, it seems that Mr W was aware that the vehicle was a motorhome, 
but he corrected  himself to describe it as a camper  which  was a vehicle Admiral insured. 
Admiral has provided underwriting evidence to show that it wouldnt have  provided  cover for 
Mr W if it knew the vehicle was a motorhome.
Taking everything into account,  I think Admirals decision  to cancel Mr Ws policy as if it 
didnt exist and reject his claim was fair and reasonable. This means I dont think  Admiral 
needs to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1087261