K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that the vehicle she acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality. She wants to reject 
the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Miss C tells us she acquired  the vehicle in May 2017 from a dealer Ill refer to as G. She 
says that during a test drive  she queried a knocking noise the vehicle engine was making  
but says she was assured this wasnt abnormal. She says she subsequently reported issues 
with the air conditioning, as well a noise from the door seal and a further report of engine  
noise. She states  some  work was done  by G but the car broke down in January  2018. 
Miss C says shes  supplied a report from a garage  business Ill refer to as A which  shows  
the vehicle has suffered  damage to the oil pump  and balance  shaft.  She says she hasnt 
been able to use the vehicle since and its been  left with G.
BMW told us that G denied its salesperson had been in a conversation with Miss C in the 
terms shed suggested.  It said if thered been  mention of a knocking noise it wouldve 
advised Miss C to stop driving in order to avoid serious consequential damage. And it said 
that no noise had been found during the pre-delivery  inspection.  It said that the vehicle had 
been covered  by a six month  warranty - which Miss C couldve  extended to 12 months. But 
shed not taken up this offer. It said it was likely the issue wouldve been  covered by the 
warranty. BMW  said it had provided an independent inspection report prepared by a 
company Ill refer to as D. This confirmed there was noise from the lower areas of the 
vehicle where the oil pump and balance shaft are located. And it had advised  the vehicle 
shouldnt be driven  until repairs  were carried out.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He said that the vehicle had 
failed an MOT test on 3 April 2017  and as BMW hadnt been able to show  the vehicle  had 
passed a later test it appeared  Miss C had been  sold a vehicle that may not have been 
roadworthy or that had a valid MOT. He felt Ds report showed there were issues with the oil 
pump and balance shaft which both needed replacing. He didnt  think such integral  parts  
should be failing after 40,000 miles and that this called into question  the vehicles durability. 
He concluded  the vehicle  wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the time of supply to Miss C. And 
he thought she should be able to reject it.
Miss C accepted the investigators view. But as BMW didnt respond to the view an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss C has experienced such an upsetting time as the result of the problems 
shes had with this vehicle. Im aware  that due to her personal circumstances its caused her 
even more difficulty than might usually be expected.
Ref: DRN18039602Miss Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated  consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMW supplied the vehicle and its therefore  
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
There doesnt seem to be much doubt  as to the nature of the present faults as the two 
reports by A and D both refer to the oil pump and balance shaft as the likely cause. As 
report stated this was unusual at around 40,450  miles whilst Ds report  gave no opinion of 
when the damage  might  have arisen. 
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required to make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. That is I have to decide  the most likely  
explanation for whats happened.
I think its helpful in explaining my decision to give a brief chronology of relevant events. 
Going back to just before Miss C acquired  the vehicle, theres a somewhat unusual 
sequence of occurrences. The vehicle passed an MOT test on 23 March 2017. The mileage 
recorded was 30,635.  Im not entirely  sure why it was tested  at this time as the current  
certificate didnt expire until June  2017. Yet on 3 April 2017 it failed an MOT test due to 
multiple faults with brakes and lights. The mileage at this time is recorded  as 30,701. On 26 
April the vehicle is recorded as having  gone in for repairs at Gs. Theres a health  check from 
2 May in which various faults including to the brakes were identified.  And an invoice dated 
10 May shows that repairs were made to the brakes  and all four tyres were replaced.  But 
theres no information to show  a further  MOT test was carried  out. So its not possible to say 
if all the faults which  had been  identified  during  the 3 April test had been  rectified.  The 
relevant website currently shows the latest  MOT as expiring on 22 March  2018. This seems  
to indicate the vehicle  was supplied to Miss C with the test certificate  - from 23 March 2017 - 
which had been  issued before the failed test. And that no further  test was carried  out.
Theres clearly  a dispute of fact about  whether Miss C raised the issue of the knocking 
noise during her test drive and/or later on when she reported the air conditioning  fault. But it 
isnt in dispute that work was done  to the air conditioning in early  June  2017.  The vehicle 
was then used  until it broke down in January by which time it had covered just over 40,000 
miles.
In considering if a vehicle  is of satisfactory  quality  when supplied,  various issues  have to be 
taken into account.  Satisfactory quality is defined as being the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory. Clearly a reasonable person wouldnt expect a four year 
old vehicle with around 30,000 miles covered to be of the same standard  as a new vehicle. 
But with a vehicle  costing over £15,000 most  people wouldnt expect a catastrophic  
breakdown to occur so quickly. And our investigator  has correctly stated that durability is an 
element of satisfactory quality.
Although I dont think I need to make a formal  finding on this point in order to reach my 
decision, I cant think why Miss C would suggest  shed  mentioned  the knocking noise if this 
hadnt been the case. For her this was a major purchase and a substantial financial  
commitment. So I think shes likely  to be able to recall details of such  significant 
conversations about it. Whereas I think its quite probable the agent  wouldnt recall details of 
what to him was a more  routine event.  And I can understand why he might  think that - if he 
doesnt recall such  a conversation after several  months - it didnt take place.
Ref: DRN18039603Nor do I think Miss C wouldve gone  ahead and acquired the vehicle if shed not been given 
what she thought  was a reasonable explanation. Im bound  to say I dont consider that a 
business which omits/forgets to have a vehicle  retested after a recently failed MOT  - and 
prior to supply to a customer  - to be the most reliable source to recall  specific details of a 
conversation some  months  previously. Its simply not plausible to think that Miss C wouldve 
risked driving the vehicle  if shed had any doubts as to its roadworthiness or mechanical 
soundness.
Ive also taken note that BMW has referred to the car being  supplied with a six month 
warranty with an option for the customer to extend  this to 12 months - an offer which  it said 
Miss C didnt take up. Id simply comment that whether or not a vehicle is supplied with a 
warranty has no bearing on if its of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  A warranty might  
extend a consumers rights but it cant be used to limit statutory rights such  as the CRA. 
Neither of the damaged items can be described as a serviceable item - that is an item which 
routinely needs  replacing. And given  the vehicle had only covered around  40,000  miles 
when the latest breakdown occurred I think on a balance  of probabilities this shows  the 
vehicle probably  wasnt of satisfactory  quality when supplied to Miss C. It also clearly had 
other less serious  issues around this time.
Normally Id think it was reasonable for BMW to be given the opportunity  to repair  this 
vehicle. But in reality  it had that chance in early  2018 when it became aware of Miss Cs 
complaint. And whilst it no doubt  relied  on Gs comments that doesnt really  alter things. The 
CRA requires repairs  to be done within a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer. Sadly neither can be said to apply here. As the vehicle 
hasnt been capable of being driven for almost two years it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to expect Miss C to accept it back now. So I think she should be allowed to reject it and end 
the agreement.
I think its also right that I take into account  the fact that Miss C has been without a vehicle of 
her own for such a lengthy period.  Yet shes been  required to maintain payments on the 
agreement as BMW refused a request, made in June 2019, to put a hold on payments 
pending the outcome of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18039604my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I now require BMW financial Services (GB) Limited to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Miss C to pay;
2.Refund all payments made from February 2018 together with simple interest at the 
rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement;
3.Pay Miss C £400  compensation  for distress  and inconvenience caused;  
4.Arrange to have  the agreement recorded as fully settled on her credit  file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1803960