K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about two instalment loans that he took out with Novaloans Limited, trading
as Cash4UNow, (NL), which he said were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this
service on Mr Ls behalf by a family member (Mrs  L). But for ease I shall refer below to all 
actions being  taken by Mr L unless stated  otherwise.
background
Mr L was given two instalment  loans by NL between March and May 2018. A summary of
the loans taken out by Mr L is shown below:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Monthly instalment  
amounts 
1. 11/3/18 5/4/18 £200 5 instalments of 
£60.98 and one 
instalment of £60.78
2. 17/5/18 Unpaid £500 5 instalments of 
£146.81 and one 
instalment of 
£146.77
Mr L said that he was reliant on further loans to support  himself.  He also had deteriorating
mental health problems.
NL said that it had carried out a credit check before each loan and asked Mr L for details of
his income and expenditure. It said there was no evidence of overcommitment on credit  or
financial difficulties shown  in its credit checks.  It also said that Mr Ls disposable income was
sufficient to meet the loan repayments.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt think NL was wrong to lend Loan 1. But he didnt think that NL had
made enough checks before Loan  2 based on the credit  checks NL did and a missed
repayment on Loan 1. He said that NL mightve wanted to verify Mr Ls income and
expenses, for example by requesting copies of bank statements, to ensure  that the
instalments would be affordable. He said that if sufficient  checks had been made, NL would
have seen that Mr L had insufficient  disposable  income to cover his loan repayments.
So he recommended  that NL should:
- Refund  all interest and charges that Mr L paid on Loan 2;
- Write off any unpaid interest  and charges from Loan 2 so that Mr L only pays  back
  the principal;
- If theres still principal to pay, Mr L should  be able to continue  with his repayment
  plan;
-If Mr L has paid more than the principal balance NL should apply 8% simple  interest  per
 annum to whats left and refund this to Mr L;
- Remove any negative information  about Loan 2 from Mr Ls credit file.
NL disagreed and responded to say when Mr L applied to it for Loan  2, his monthly
disposable income of £628 left him with sufficient funds to maintain his payments of £146.81.
Ref: DRN13146782Its credit check showed Mr Ls overall credit  commitments had reduced  by £1829 since  it
carried out its previous  credit check.  NL said that Mr L hadnt taken out any short term loans
in the previous three months  and had taken out two short term loans in the previous six
months. It didnt consider  this evidence of reliance  on short term borrowing.
NL referred to the adjudicators view in which he said that if it had carried out better  checks
it would  have seen  that Mr Ls income was just over £1,300 (and not £1,408 as he declared
at application  stage),  and that his living costs  totalled £1,365 (and not £780 as he declared
at application  stage).  It also referred to the adjudicator saying that NL may have wanted to
verify Mr Ls income and expenses. NL said that it could only take the information it was
presented with into account  when making  a decision, and it said that it had done this and
that its checks were sufficient.
NL asked that the case be passed on to an ombudsman for review.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to NL on 13 February  2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that NL was required to lend responsibly.  It needed  to make sure Mr L could afford 
the loan repayments. There wasnt a set list of checks  that NL had to carry out. But its 
checks needed to be proportionate to things such as the amount of each repayment, the 
length of the agreement and any borrowing history.
I explained that the Financial Conduct  Authority was the regulator  at the time Mr L borrowed 
from NL. Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the customers  
ability to meet repayments  under  a regulated  credit  agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences. The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make  repayments 
without undue difficulty, and that this means  borrowers should  be able to make  their 
repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet 
these repayments.
NL had told us about the checks  it did before giving Mr L each of the loans. It had asked him 
to provide details  of his income and regular expenditure,  including  any credit  commitments. It
had also carried out a credit check. It had then factored in any undeclared credit 
commitments into Mr Ls estimate of expenditure. I hadnt seen the actual credit check. I 
noted that the adjudicator  had asked for this but it hadnt been received. But NL had 
summarised the credit checks  in detail in its final response letter  to Mr L.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £200 repayable by five monthly  repayments of £60.98 and a final payment of
£60.78. Mr L had told NL that his monthly income was £1,430 and his regular expenditure 
was £895 including credit  repayments  of £775.  So he had a disposable  income of £535.
NL had summarised its credit check which showed  that Mr L had 17 active accounts  with an
active account balance  of £8,381, although £8,002 of this was on a loan.  Eight accounts had
been opened in the previous six months. But the check  also showed  that Mr L had only
taken out one short term loan in the previous three  months and two in the previous six 
months. He also had no defaults in the previous 36 months. NLs credit check  also showed 
Ref: DRN13146783that Mr L had a loan which he hadnt declared.  So NL factored in the loan repayment  
amounts into its assessment and said that these  reduced Mr Ls disposable income  to £402. 
It said that this was sufficient to meet  the loan repayments. NL also said that it saw no 
evidence of overcommitted credit  or financial difficulties from its credit  check.  I could see that 
it was unlikely that it would have had additional  concerns over the small number  of recent 
short term loans shown  by its credit check.
Mr L had provided his credit report to us. I could see that before Loan  1, his credit  report
showed around eleven short term loans  with payments due at the same time as the Loan  1
repayments. But I was also aware  that when a lender  carried  out a credit check, the
information it saw didnt usually provide the same  level of detail that a consumers credit
report would  and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of 
a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised.  I was also aware that 
not all payday  and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies.  So, this 
might have explained any differences between the information provided  by NLs credit check  
and Mr Ls actual situation.
I noted that the amounts  that Mr L needed  to repay  each month were smaller than if hed
taken a normal payday loan, although  Mr L was also committing to making those
repayments over a far longer  period.  But I could  see that the loan repayment amounts were
relatively modest compared  to Mr Ls adjusted disposable income. And there  was little to
suggest to NL at that stage that Mr L wasnt using the loan in the way it was intended   as a
short term solution to a temporary  cash  flow problem.
So, I thought it was proportionate  for NL to have considered Mr Ls adjusted  disposable 
income at that time, without making  further  checks for Loan 1. So, I didnt think NL had done 
anything wrong  in giving Loan  1 to Mr L.
Mr L had repaid Loan 1 before the due date.  Although the first repayment  on Loan 1 was 
due on 3 April 2018, Mr Ls payment  had failed on that date but hed paid £200 the next day 
and the balance of the loan the day after. Id noted  that the adjudicator referred  to a missed 
payment on Loan  1, but I didnt think LS should have been unduly  concerned  about this as 
the loan balance was repaid two days later and around five months early.
Loan 2
Mr L had taken out Loan 2 six weeks after repaying  Loan 1. The loan amount  had increased  
to £500 repayable by five monthly  instalments  of £146.81 and a final repayment of £146.77.
Mr L had declared his income to be £1,408 and his expenditure to be £780 including credit
repayments of £500.
NL had carried out a credit  check before  the loan. Its summary  said that the number  of
Mr Ls active accounts were reduced  from 17 to 11, with the active  balance reduced by
£1,829 to £6,552. It also showed  that Mr L hadnt  taken any short  term loans in the previous
three months. Id noted that Mr Ls own declared  expenses reflected this as his credit
repayments had decreased by £275.  Id also noted  that NL didnt consider the results  of this
check as evidence of reliance on short term borrowing. I didnt think  its view of the checks
was unreasonable.
I could see that before  Loan 2, Mr Ls own credit  report showed around  five short term loans
with payments due at the same time as the repayments on Loan 2. But as Id said above
Ref: DRN13146784it was possible there  might be differences between the information provided by NLs credit 
check and Mr Ls actual  situation which NL wouldnt have been  aware  of.
I thought the loan repayment amounts were still relatively modest  compared  to Mr Ls 
declared disposable income of £628.  So, I still thought it was proportionate for NL to have 
considered Mr Ls disposable  income again,  without making further checks for Loan  2. So, I 
didnt think NL had done anything wrong in giving Loan 2 to Mr L.
I could see Mr Ls situation  was likely worse in reality than shown by NLs credit checks. But 
I didnt think NL could  have known this without  a full review of his finances. And I didnt think
the lending had reached the stage where  such a review might be proportionate.
Subject to any further representations by Mr L or NL my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
Mrs L responded to say that she disagreed and said she found  it incredulous  that my 
provisional decision differed from the adjudicators view. She said that she had paid off 
Loan 1 for her son as he was in financial difficulty and that there had been a late payment 
fee on Loan 1. She said that the fee was a clear indication that Mr L was struggling. She 
asked how her son could  have paid off Loan  1 if he didnt have sufficient disposable income. 
Mrs L noted that the adjudicator had said that Mr L would have had a £55 negative  balance 
left to repay  Loan  2. Mrs L also asked how NL could  justify  stating  that its credit  report  stated 
one thing but they were seeing something else.
NL hasnt provided any further information in response to my provisional decision.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs L is concerned at the difference  between my provisional decision and the 
adjudicators view. The main difference is in regard to our respective assessments of Loan 2. 
The adjudicator said that the late payment fee for Loan 1 and the results of the credit  checks  
before Loan 2 should have resulted in NL independently verifying Mr Ls income and 
expenses. I note that Mr Ls payment  had failed on the due date for payment of the first 
instalment on Loan 1 and so a fee was charged. But I consider that the fact that most of the 
loan balance  was repaid  the day after that, and the rest on the following day, wouldnt have 
suggested to NL that Mr L was suffering financial difficulties.  Im aware that its not unusual 
for instalment loans  to be repaid off early so that borrowers can benefit from the reduced 
interest payable. And in situations where a borrower repays a number of loans  early,  
concerns might be raised by such behaviour. But this was Mr Ls first loan with NL and at 
that stage of his borrowing history, I dont think the early repayment  of the loan so soon after 
the missed repayment  suggested that Mr Ls finances were under  pressure.  
There was then a gap of six weeks between the early repayment  of Loan 1, and Mr L taking  
out Loan 2. I think that gap should have given additional confidence to NL that Mr L wasnt 
borrowing sequentially.
I can see that NL carried  out two credit checks before Loan 2. One of the checks specifically 
checked short term lending. NLs summary  of its credit checks  showed that Mr Ls overall  
Ref: DRN13146785financial situation had improved. The number of his active accounts had reduced from 17 to 
11, with the total active account  balance reduced by £1,829 to £6,552. 
NL also noted  that Mr L hadnt taken any short term loans in the previous three months. I 
also note that NL didnt consider the results of this check as evidence  of reliance on short 
term borrowing. 
I note that Mr Ls actual situation differed  from what NL saw in its checks. Ive explained  
above some  of the reasons for this. But overall  I dont think  NLs reliance on its credit  checks 
was unreasonable.
  
I note that NL obtained details of Mr Ls income  and expenditure  before Loan 2. I can see 
that Mr L appeared to live at home  with family  so he didnt  have the usual household 
expenditure to pay for. I also note that his expenditure  included  credit repayments  of £500. I 
think that NL was entitled to rely on what it was being told at this stage of its lending history  
and that showed that Mr L had a disposable  income  of £628. I can see that the loan 
repayment amounts  were  relatively modest compared to Mr Ls stated disposable  income 
which suggested he could  comfortably repay  the loan and didnt suggest he was 
experiencing difficulty.
I note that Mrs L referred to the adjudicators view saying that Mr L had insufficient 
disposable income to afford the loan repayments.  But the adjudicator  could only say this as 
he thought a more comprehensive  review of Mr Ls circumstances was required and hed 
reviewed Mr Ls bank  statements which provided  this information. I disagreed with this for 
the reasons stated above. NL couldnt  know Mr Ls actual situation without a full review of his 
finances, for example by asking to see his bank statements. And overall  I dont think the 
lending had quite  reached the stage where such a review might have been proportionate.  
So I think NL carried out proportionate checks before  lending  to Mr L. And I dont
think it was unreasonable for NL to have  made  the loans  without  carrying  out further  checks. 
So Ive reached  the same conclusions I reached before for the same reasons.
I appreciate that Mrs L now says that Mr L was struggling at the time of the loans. But that 
wasnt something he told the lender when he asked for the loans. And it isnt something that 
I think NL should  have discovered  from the checks it needed to do.
Im also sorry  to read of the distress Mr Ls problems  have caused. I again remind  NL of its 
continuing obligations to treat Mr L positively and sympathetically in respect of the 
outstanding debt on his loan. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
Ref: DRN13146786ombudsman
Ref: DRN1314678