K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. unfairly refused  a claim he made on his guaranteed asset protection  (gap)  insurance 
when his car was stolen.
background
Mr M bought  a new car in 2015. He took out a three year finance agreement  and bought  gap 
insurance from Mapfre.
In 2018, Mr M reported his car as being  stolen. He claimed  on his main  insurance and the 
insurer settled the claim,  but for less than the original purchase price.  So Mr M claimed  on 
his gap insurance.
Mapfre investigated the claim. It sent a claims assessor Ill call C to interview Mr M and 
investigate his claim. C reported on Mr Ms claim to Mapfre. Based on Cs report, Mapfre  
declined Mr Ms claim. It said there  was no evidence of broken glass or other  physical 
evidence at the scene of the theft. And it said that analysis of the keys showed that one of 
the keys Mr M had given  C had been  tampered  with and wasnt  the original key supplied  with 
the car. It said it had the right under the policy to decline a claim where inaccurate or 
fraudulent information  had been provided.
Mr M complained. He said hed taken  the insurance  out, and it wasnt  fair his claim wasnt  
being paid. He said he had given the assessor the keys he had and the test results  must be 
wrong. It wasnt  fair that his claim hadnt  been paid out.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. Mr M didnt  accept that, so the 
complaint comes to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the policy Mr M took out say that accurate  information must be 
provided in respect  of a claim. When it received  Mr Ms claim, Mapfre began to look into it 
and asked C to investigate on its behalf.
The assessor interviewed Mr M and considered his account of what had happened, as well 
as other  related information. 
The assessor asked  Mr M for the keys to his car  as it was stolen when parked while  he 
was away from the car, Mr M would still have both keys. Mr M gave C what he said were the 
two keys he was given when he bought the car three years  earlier.
The assessor analysed  the keys. The results  showed that one key was the key that came 
with the car, but had never been used. The other key didnt appear  to be genuine. The blade 
matched Mr Ms car. But the fob was from the same  manufacturer, but from a different model  
to Mr Ms car. And the circuitry inside the fob had been damaged to make it unreadable. The 
assessor said that this showed that this key had been tampered with and wasnt  the original 
Ref: DRN15142852key supplied with the car  or, as the other  hadnt  been used, the key used to regularly drive 
the car.
Mr M says this isnt right. He provided  the keys he had, which were the ones he used and 
were supplied with the car. Either the report is wrong, or something must have happened to 
the keys after he handed them over.
But I can see that the report was prepared by an independent expert. Ive no reason  to doubt 
its conclusions. I dont  think its likely the expert  was mistaken,  and I dont have any 
evidence to suggest that something happened  to the keys after Mr M handed them  over.
Having taken all the evidence into account, Mapfre refused  Mr Ms claim. Ive looked  at the 
evidence it considered  not just in relation to the keys, but also Mr Ms account and the 
wider circumstances.  And Ive taken  into account the policy  terms and conditions.  In the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  I think  Mapfres decision to refuse  the claim was a 
reasonable one, and so I dont think it would be fair to uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1514285