K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the sale of his private  medical insurance policy by Health-on-line  
Company UK Limited (HOL). 
background
In 2017, Mr M was sold a private medical  insurance policy over the phone by HOL.  The 
policy covered him and his wife. 
HOL arranged the policy on a moratorium basis. That meant  that any medical conditions  in 
the previous five years wouldnt be covered until Mr M and his wife had been trouble-free 
from the conditions  for two years in a row after taking out the policy. Trouble-free  meant  not 
having had a medical opinion from a medical practitioner, taken medication, followed a 
special diet, had medical treatment or visited any medical practitioner. 
Mr M has complained about the sale of the policy. He says HOL was aware he was taking 
aspirin and statins  for a heart problem, but they didnt tell him he couldnt be considered  
trouble-free whilst he was taking these tablets. He says he only found this out when he was 
due to renew the policy for the second  year. He thinks HOL should have made him aware of 
this at the time of sale.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  HOL had explained 
how both the moratorium and trouble-free period worked when  the policy was sold.
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators findings, so the matters  been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the investigator  has explained, the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. That meant  
HOL wasnt able to give Mr M any advice about the suitability of the policy,  however it was 
required to give him sufficient information  about  how the policy  worked so that he could 
make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Mr M explains that he completed an initial form and said on there that he was taking aspirin 
and statins for a previous  heart problem. He therefore says that HOL was aware that he was 
taking this medication and should  have told him that he couldnt  be considered trouble-free 
for his heart condition  whilst he continued to take it. 
Ive listened to the sales calls that took place between Mr M and HOL.  There  were  five calls, 
which covered a lot of information.
During the first call, it was apparent that Mr M had made an online enquiry (which was 
presumably the initial form that Mr M has referred  to), and HOL was calling him back to give 
him a quote.  I havent seen the online enquiry  form that Mr M completed,  but the adviser did 
ask Mr M some  health questions during the call. Mr M explained hed previously had angina 
symptoms, and was found  to have a blockage (I assume of the coronary  arteries).  This led to 
Ref: DRN16482082him having heart bypass surgery. The adviser explained that any medical problems  in the 
last five years wouldnt be covered until a two year trouble-free period had passed.  
In a later call, Mr M and the adviser discussed  some information that the adviser  had sent Mr 
M about  the policy. Mr M asked the adviser about  a statement in the documents which said 
HOL would need to know about  medication prescribed by a consultant.  Mr M mentioned  that 
hed noticed it because he was prescribed medication by a consultant and he was still taking 
tablets. The adviser  confirmed that statement didnt  apply  to Mr M as it related to people  
transferring cover from a previous insurer. 
In another call, Mr M discussed his heart problem again with the adviser, as he wanted to 
confirm his understanding about  how the trouble-free period worked. The adviser said that 
pre-existing problems would be covered after two years of being on the policy  if trouble-free,  
and that meant treatment,  advice and medication free. Mr M seemed to understand this. 
In the final call, Mr M talked to the adviser about  the possibility of having  his son covered 
under the policy.  As Mr Ms son has an existing medical condition,  they again  discussed 
what the trouble-free period meant.  Mr M explained  his son was taking tablets to regulate his 
condition, and the adviser said that would class as not being  trouble-free.  Mr M confirmed  
his understanding of this by saying so trouble-free  would be for two years  with nothing - no 
tablets.
Overall, I think Mr M understood from his conversations with the adviser how the moratorium 
and trouble-free period  worked. I havent seen the initial  form that Mr M completed  when he 
requested a quote, so he may well have mentioned on there that he was taking aspirin  and 
statins. However, the parties didnt have  a specific discussion  about what  medication  Mr M 
may have  been  taking  for his condition,  but the adviser did make Mr M aware  that to be 
considered trouble-free  meant hed need  to be medication free. 
Mr M did mention he was taking some  tablets in one of the phone  calls, but he didnt go into 
any detail about  this. Given that they were talking  about whether  a statement in the 
documents was relevant to Mr M (rather than specifically talking about his heart problem or 
future cover for this), I can understand why the adviser didnt ask him more about  it. 
It seems  Mr M had assumed that because he takes aspirin and statins  on a preventative 
basis, they wouldnt count  as medication. But the adviser didnt tell him this, and he didnt 
ask. Im therefore satisfied that HOL didnt deliberately mislead him about this. 
I would also point out that I havent seen confirmation from the insurer that it would consider 
aspirin and statins  taking  preventatively as medication (for the purposes of deciding whether 
someone is trouble-free). It appears  Mr M learnt  this from a staff member at HOL, rather  
than the insurer.  He may wish to clarify  this point  with the insurer directly.  But even if the 
insurer would consider them to be medication, I dont think  HOL is at fault for Mr M assuming 
that wouldnt be the case. 
As Ive said,  HOL needed to tell Mr M how the policy worked, and that included  drawing his 
attention to the policys key benefits and limitations.  The way the moratorium works is a 
significant feature  of the policy, but Im satisfied it was brought to Mr Ms attention. 
I therefore dont  uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN16482083my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1648208