K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, lent to 
him irresponsibly.
Mr R is represented by a third party and it asks on Mr Rs behalf  for a refund of interest  and 
charges, correction to his credit file and for any outstanding balance  of the principal sums to 
be written off. 
background
Using the information sent to us by Satsuma here is a brief table. Loan 1 may still be 
outstanding. 
Loan approved term amountInstalment 
amount
roundedPlanned 
repayment date
1 6 August 2017 12 months £600 £9910 August 2018
o/s
229 September 
201712 months £900 £14928 September 2018
repaid  on 27 
February 2018 
In May 2019  we were told that Loan 1 had an outstanding balance. That may still be the 
case. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Satsuma ought  to put 
things right for Loan 2. He said that Mr R had three  other loans  outstanding  at the time that 
Loan 2 was approved, so Satsuma ought to have realised that Loan 2 was likely 
unaffordable. 
Satsuma did not agree. It said that having  reviewed its credit bureau search information 
when Loan 2 was approved there was no record of any payday  loans for the customer held 
at the bureau.  And it said usually its credit bureau searches may not reveal recent  payday  
loan activity. 
Our adjudicator sent a second opinion saying that Satsumas points had not altered his view.
The complaint remained unresolved and so has been passed  to me. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN16092962the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include: where a customers income  is particularly low; where the repayments  are 
particularly high; and/or  where the frequency of the loans and the length  of time over which  a 
customer has been given  loans need  to be looked  at: repeated  refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing  had become, or was becoming,  unsustainable.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, although I do not think  this applies to 
Mr Rs circumstances. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. In particular  the customer  should be 
able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments,  and 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all of the arguments,  evidence and information provided  in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
For Loan 1, I would have expected Satsuma to have  gathered information about his income  
and his expenditure before approving the loan. Satsuma has explained that it took Mr Rs 
declared expenditure, added in the proposed  loan repayment, and added  a buffer as a 
safeguard. In the illustrations below I have rounded the figures  for ease  of calculation. 
For the first loan, Satsumas calculations  have been explained to me as:  £1,450  (Mr Rs 
declared expenditure) + £99 + £65 = £1,615. As Mr Rs declared  income  was £1,842,  and 
Satsuma says it verified that figure  through a credit check, then Satsuma says Loan  1 was 
affordable. The amount  left over would have  been £227.  
 I do not think it needed to do more. I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint for Loan  1.
Loan 2 was for a larger principal sum of £900 and applied for a few weeks  after Loan 1 had 
been approved  and Mr R was still repaying it. Mr Rs indebtedness was going  to have been 
extended for a further 12 months  with Loan 2 and so I think that proportionate checks ought  
to have included  a full financial review to satisfy itself that Mr R was able to afford both 
Loans 1 and 2 and be in a position  to repay  them sustainably. 
Ref: DRN16092963The financial  review ought to have included verification of Mr Rs income, his regular 
financial commitments, his regular expenditure and any short term loan or high-cost debts he 
may have  had. 
Satsuma has not sent to us the credit  search  results  it relies on but has told us that its 
search results did not show any payday  loans. However, the loans to which our adjudicator 
has referred were open at the time that Mr R applied for Loan 2. 
One was for 364 days with two repayments  a month  (about £54 each two weeks) from 
April 2017. The other was for just under a year from May 2017 and had scheduled  monthly 
repayments of around £140. These  may fall into a different category to payday loans but 
still were high-cost short-term credit  loans and likely would have registered on any searches.
So I think that had Satsuma carried out the proportionate checks I think  it ought to have 
carried out for Loan 2, its highly likely that it would have seen the extent of Mr Rs 
indebtedness to other  lenders and the level of his financial  commitments  each month  for 
long periods of time would have been  clear. 
However, it is feasible that Mr Rs declaration at the time he applied to Satsuma  for Loan 2 
that he had £800 of financial commitments expenditure each month included the repayments 
for these  other loans  outlined above.  If that is the case  then still I think that they are relevant  
when deciding on this complaint. Mr Rs declaration that he was spending £800 a month  on 
financial commitments  (excluding  housing costs) was a high figure relative  to his monthly 
salary and so Satsuma was on notice about  this high spend. And further,  that despite this he 
already had a loan with Satsuma and was coming  back to ask for more.  
With the information Mr R had given it about  his £800 financial commitments  figure,  plus 
Satsuma knowing that the combined  repayments for Loans 1 and 2 would have been just 
under £250  a month, then this would have amounted to over £1,000  each month for credit 
repayments. This was a high proportion of his declared net income. 
So I do not think that a responsible lender would have considered it appropriate to have lent 
a further £900 to Mr R in September 2017.  
I uphold Mr Rs complaint  for Loan  2.
outstanding balance
At the time of writing,  there may still be an outstanding balance on Loan 1. Mr R has 
requested through his representative that any outstanding balances are written  off. As my 
decision relates to Loan  2 then I am not in a position  to make any direction about any 
outstanding balance on Loan  1. 
And in any event, it is not usually our approach to expect a business to write off outstanding 
principal sums as the recipient would have had the benefit of that sum at the time the loan 
was approved. It is only fair that it is repaid.
In Mr Rs case, if an outstanding balance remains for Loan 1 then any redress  due to him in 
relation to Loan 2 can be used by Satsuma  to set-off against that balance.  I refer to this in 
the next section.   
putting things right  what Provident  Personal Credit Limited needs to do
Ref: DRN16092964refund  all the interest and charges applied to Loan 2; and
add interest at 8% per year simple interest*  on the above  refunded  sums from the 
date they were paid,  if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Mr Rs credit file as a result  of 
the interest and charges on these loans;
Satsuma is entitled  to set off any monies  arising from the redress against  any monies Mr R 
may owe it for the other loan. 
If a third party owns any debt then in order to do the set off I have outlined  above, Satsuma 
will need  to repurchase that debt. If it does not do that then it cannot do the set off and the 
full amount due will be repayable to Mr R directly. And in those circumstances  the third party 
will need  to be directed by Satsuma to correct any adverse entries  on Mr Rs credit  file, so 
far as it is able to do so. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. Any tax is to be 
removed before set-off. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Mr Rs complaint in part. Satsuma should do as 
I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1609296