K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to him. 
background
Between April 2014 and July 2016,  Mr A borrowed four loans from Mr Lender.  His borrowing 
history is set out below:  
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 01/04/2014 01/08/2014 1 £150.00 £176.25
2 09/01/2016 31/03/2016 3 £300.00 £149.60
3 02/04/2016 29/07/2016 4 £750.00 £349.50
4 30/07/2016 31/05/2017 6 £850.00 £347.19
I understand that Mr Lender initially objected to us considering this complaint. Our 
adjudicator explained why he thought we could  look at the complaint and Mr Lender  then 
supplied its business  file. 
Another of our adjudicators considered whether Mr Lender had lent responsibly.  She said 
she thought loan 1 and loans 2 to 4 formed two chains of lending.  She didnt  think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  in respect  of loans 1 and 2. But she thought Mr Lender should 
have done more checks in respect of loans 3 and 4. And if it had done those checks,  it would 
have realised that the loan repayments  werent sustainably  affordable.  
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It reiterated  its view that what  it knew 
about his disposable income showed  the repayments were  affordable.  It pointed  to an 
apparent increase in Mr As income  between loan 2 and 3. It said our adjudicator had based 
her decision  on one assumption. 
As the parties are not in agreement with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been  
passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN10380412But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
I agree  with our adjudicator that the loans  Mr A borrowed  form two separate chains of 
borrowing. Over a year had passed between Mr A repaying loan 1 and applying for loan 2. 
So Ive treated loan 1 and loans 2 to 4 as two distinct chains. 
As I said above, our adjudicator did not think the complaint  should  be upheld  in respect of 
loan 1. Mr A contacted  us to say he agreed  with that view. As the parties agree that Mr 
Lender was not irresponsible when  it lent loan 1, I havent considered  this chain of lending 
further. 
With regard to loan 2, again as I said above, early  in the lending  relationship,  I think Mr 
Lender was entitled  to rely on the information Mr A provided to it. I can see that Mr Lender 
asked Mr A about his income and expenditure. He said that he earned £963  per month and 
that his total expenditure  was £683.  On the face of it, he had a disposable income of £280  
and so the repayment of £149 would have  appeared affordable.  
However, by the time he applied for loan 3, I think Mr Lender  should have asked more 
questions. I can see at this stage,  Mr A declared  his income to have increased to £1,136 per 
month. However, by this point, he said he did not have any mortgage/rental expenses, 
Ref: DRN10380413although the address on his loan agreement was still the same.  For loan 2, he had said his 
mortgage/rent was £350 per month. 
It is unclear to me why Mr As accommodation  expenses would have disappeared when he 
lived at the same address. And I think that this should have  prompted  Mr Lender  to ask more  
questions about  his finances.  Additionally, I can see that the monthly repayment for loan 3 
amounted to around 30% of Mr As net monthly  income. This amounts to a significant 
amount of his income, in my view. And thats  particularly the case  because he had to make a 
payment of around  that percentage for three months. I do appreciate that the final repayment 
would have been lower and amounted to around  20% of his income. 
For loan 4, the picture is similar.  This time Mr A declared mortgage/rent payments of £150. 
So at this stage,  Mr Lender had three differing amounts for what would have essentially 
been one of his major  expenses. It is unclear as to why what  should  be a relatively  stable 
expense fluctuated so much. And again, the loan repayment amounted  to 30% of Mr As 
income, which in my view amounts to a significant  amount of his net income. And I think  Mr 
Lender should have undertaken further checks in this regard. 
Had Mr Lender undertaken  further checks, I think it would have seen that Mr As monthly  
expenditure was greater  than that which was declared. It should have also realised that Mr A 
had taken out loan 3 just a matter of days after repaying loan 2. Loan 4 was taken out the 
day after he repaid loan 3.  Loan 3 was also more than double the amount he borrowed for 
loan 2. Putting  all of those  things together, I think Mr Lender should  have realised  that Mr A 
was borrowing to meet an ongoing  need. 
On that basis, I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to lend loans 3 and 4 to Mr A. It 
will need  to take action to put things right. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 3 and 4; 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mr As credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr As complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
must comply with the above putting things right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ref: DRN10380414ombudsman
Ref: DRN1038041