K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains (on behalf of herself and the estate  of her late husband Mr G) that Bank  of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage in 1987. 
In 1997, they took out PPI which covered  Mrs G for accident, sickness and unemployment 
and protected  Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  monthly  repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this mis-selling complaint. Mrs G disagreed  with our 
adjudicator. Mrs Gs main complaint is that she and her husband already held an 
endowment policy to pay off their mortgage and she believes the PPI policy was added  
without their knowledge or consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Although the PPI was just in Mrs Gs name, as Mr and Mrs G held the mortgage  in joint 
names Ive looked  at both their circumstances when  the policy was taken out.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ive seen the mortgage application Mr and Mrs G completed in 1987. This shows that PPI 
was offered to Mr and Mrs G when they were applying for their mortgage  but they didnt 
opt to have it and they didnt take it out when their mortgage started. So I think that 
Mr and Mrs G would've  understood  that PPI was available  as an optional  extra  and it was up 
to them  to say if they wanted it with their mortgage.  
A separate  PPI application had to be filled in if they wanted to take out PPI. And I've seen 
the PPI application that Mrs G completed  in 1997. The name  by which  Mrs G was known at 
the time is shown on the form indicating she was the person to be insured. She answered 
questions to check she was eligible for the policy. And she signed the completed form to get 
the policy. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Gs home wouldve been  at risk if their mortgage payments  werent  kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better protection  than they had 
otherwise. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs G mightve felt PPI was useful to have  even if 
they didn't choose to take it out at the start of their mortgage. 
I can completely understand if Mrs G has forgotten these details as this happened such a 
long time ago. But based on the information  I've seen, I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs G 
decided they did want the benefits that PPI offered. And, on balance, I find that they chose to 
buy the policy for Mrs G, knowing it was up to them to say if they wanted to take it out.
Ref: DRN18913602Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. So Halifax  shouldve taken reasonable steps 
to make sure the cover was suitable  for them. And it had to give Mr and Mrs G important 
information they needed to know in a clear way.
Mrs G was eligible for PPI. 
The policy covered Mrs G for up to 12 months per claim  in the event she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
And the policy wouldve also paid a monthly  benefit if she had an accident or was too sick or 
disabled to work. 
Repeat claims were possible providing Mr and Mrs G with long term protection for their 
mortgage whilst they were paying for their home.
Mrs G told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer and she had no 
significant other means to rely on to make her mortgage monthly repayments if she wasn't 
able to work. So I think PPI offered Mr and Mrs G long term cover whilst they were paying  
their mortgage.    
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs G told us about having an endowment policy  set up. 
The endowment policy was a savings scheme intended to help Mr and Mrs G pay off the 
balance of their mortgage  at the end of the mortgage term. 
PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. The PPI 
guaranteed a monthly benefit  in the event  of a successful claim so that Mr and Mrs G could 
continue to make their monthly mortgage  repayments during the mortgage  term. 
So, I think the policy couldve  still been  useful to them.  Overall,  looking at everything Mrs G 
told us about their circumstances, I think that PPI was suitable  for them.    
Mrs G wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. So, I think  it unlikely  
that having better information about the policys exclusions  and limitations wouldve affected 
the decision made to take out the cover for Mrs G.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs G when the PPI application was 
filled in. But the cost of the policy was shown in a welcome letter Halifax  sent to them  and 
they couldve queried it then if PPI wasn't something they wanted to pay for. From what Ive 
seen, it doesnt  look as if that happened.  Mrs G hasnt suggested that they couldnt afford 
the monthly premiums.  And I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve signed an instruction form to their 
bank to cover the cost each month.  So it seems  they were happy at the time to pay for PPI. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs G still wouldve  decided to buy the policy for Mrs G even  if theyd been  better  
informed as PPI gave them useful protection in their particular situation. So I dont find 
theyve lost out financially as a result  of anything that Halifax mightve done wrong.
I do understand that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs G. But I hope that setting 
things out as Ive done  helps to explain the reasons  for my decision.
Ref: DRN18913603my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1891360