K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) is seeking payment for a 
car which was taken back.
Background
In July 2015 Mr N acquired a second  hand car at a cost of £1,995 which was funded by a 
hire purchase agreement with TCFC. It was some  11 years old and had done 99,674 miles. 
The loan was deemed to be high risk and an immobiliser as fitted to the car and when each  
months payment  was made a code was sent to Mr N.
Mr N says the immobiliser was faulty and he had trouble using  the car. As a result he lost his 
job and got into financial difficulties and missed payments. He says the business  wasnt  
sympathetic and as he had paid over 50% of the sum due he agreed  to voluntarily terminate 
the agreement. He says the business collected  the car and about a year later said it hadnt 
got the car and he still owed it arrears of some £2,000.
TCFC says that Mr N told it he had lost his job in October 2015. His account had been in 
arrears for the majority of the agreement and many  contractual  payments were missed. Mr N 
had discussed  voluntarily terminating  the agreement and it had sent him the relevant forms, 
but these had not been returned. In July 2017 TCFC took the decision to terminate the 
agreement and notified him accordingly. 
It asked a third party to collect the car, but it was unable to do so despite visiting Mr Ns 
house on several occasions and leaving calling cards. It said that there was no trace of the 
car and it wasnt able to make contact with Mr N despite asking him to call.
Mr N says that on the first occasion the recovery agents attempted  to make  contact he was 
at work and without  him being present they were unable to collect the vehicle. However he 
says the car was collected on the second  visit a few days  later.  He says he didnt  receive 
any correspondence from TCFC and believed the matter was closed at this point. 
His complaint to TCFC was rejected so he brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. Our investigator  
noted TCFC had paid Mr N £50 for problems he had with the immobiliser and closed his 
complaint on that issue.
He believed TFC had been sympathetic to Mr N and his financial difficulties and had on 
occasions provided him with a code for the immobiliser  when he was still in arrears. He 
didnt believe there was sufficient evidence to show that TCFC had collected  the car and he 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.  Mr N didnt  agree. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  at the businesss  records for the account and can see that it instructed the 
third party to collect the car. Those  records show that third party reporting it hadnt  been able 
to do so. At that point TCFC took the view that the car was of little value and it didnt pursue 
Ref: DRN11486742collection. I can see also that it sent out the voluntary termination forms, but there is no 
record of those being returned.  
Mr N says he has witnesses to the car being  taken away, but hasnt  produced any 
statements or other evidence to support  that claim. I gather he has said that he subsequently 
reported the loss to the police, but I havent  seen  any evidence of this and no crime report 
has been supplied.  I have looked  at the governments vehicle database and see that the car 
was last taxed  in July 2017  and its MOT expired on 17 May 2017.  There  is no further  record 
of the car.
I cannot say what  happened  to the car, but I am not persuaded that it was collected  by the 
agent acting for TCFC. Quite  simply I dont have enough evidence  to support the claim made  
by Mr N. 
I find myself in agreement with the investigator that TCFC has acted correctly in its handling 
of this account and it has shown forbearance when Mr N was in arrears.  I believe it worked  
with him and offered assistance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision before 
3 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1148674