K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd kept increasing  his credit card limit even though he couldnt 
afford to make  the repayments.
background
Mr P tells us that NewDay Ltd increased his credit limit several times. In July 2014 it 
increased it to £1,000  and he thought that was affordable. But in January 2015 it increased 
his limit to £1,750,  in July 2015 it increased  it again  to £2,500, in July 2016  it increased it to 
£3,500 and in March  2017 it increased it to £4,500. He said the payments became  
unaffordable because  he also had pay day loans and other credit  cards.  NewDay eventually 
defaulted his account. He thinks  this was irresponsible lending  and he wants  NewDay to 
refund the interest and amend his credit  record.
NewDay said it undertook  appropriate  checks each time before writing to Mr P to tell him it 
was intending  to increase the limit on his card account. The letters gave him the option to 
refuse the offer but he didnt do so. The last increase from £3,500 to £4,500 was at Mr Ps 
request.
The adjudicator didnt think NewDay had done  anything wrong.  She didnt think NewDay 
wouldve had any concerns about his financial circumstances when it offered him the 
increases. And she could  see that on occasions he had made  more  than the minimum 
payment.
Mr P said he wanted an ombudsman to look at his complaint again although he didnt have 
any further information for this Service to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If a loan is unaffordable it means  that the customer  couldnt afford  to make the repayments 
at the time he or she was given  the credit. The affordability checks  a lender should carry out 
should be proportionate to the size of the loan and the cost of repayment. NewDay has 
explained how it made the assessments. And we cant  say that it shouldve  done any 
particular check.  But we can look at Mr Ps account history to see if there was anything  that 
shouldve concerned NewDay.
Mr P told us his concerns  are about  the increases after July 2014  so Ive looked  at his credit  
card statements from that date. I can see he went over the limit by small amounts on 
occasions up to October  2015 but each  time he soon brought his account back under the 
limit. And he made all the required repayments up to August 2017 when he asked  for a 
higher credit  limit. So I dont think the history  of his account wouldve given NewDay  any 
undue concern.
Ref: DRN16991242From the information it had at the time of the increases NewDay  thought  they were 
affordable and so offered them to Mr P. I know Mr P wont agree  with me but for the reasons 
Ive already given,  I think NewDay  reasonably assessed Mr Ps ability to make the required 
monthly repayments. So I cant say they werent affordable.  NewDay had a responsibility to 
make sure Mr P could  afford these increases. But Mr P also had a responsibility not to 
accept the offers or to apply for the final increase if he thought  he couldnt afford them.  
Ive considered whether it was irresponsible for the bank to have given Mr P the increases. 
Irresponsible lending  is not just about whether  Mr P could afford to repay the credit  or not  
its whether theres  another reason  he shouldnt  have had the credit.  This will depend on his 
personal circumstances. And it could  be irresponsible to lend money to someone who is in a 
debt spiral because  theyre borrowing money to repay other loans which  they cant afford.  
But thats not the case here. 
For those reasons I cant find NewDay did anything wrong when it increased Mr Ps credit 
limit. So I wont be asking  it to refund any interest or fees. NewDay has a responsibility to 
send accurate information to the credit  reference agencies so I cant ask it to amend Mr Ps 
credit record.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1699124