K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a credit card. Mr J says Barclays Bank  UK PLC, Egg at the time, mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Mr J says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent. But based on the evidence  
Ive seen I think Barclays made it clear that Mr J didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. I say this as 
Mr Js credit card application was made online and Ive not seen evidence  of any 
involvement from Barclays during  completion of the application. Barclays has sent me copies 
of the screen  shots it says Mr J wouldve seen at the time  and Ive seen no reason to doubt 
this. These  include equally prominent  yes and no options for PPI. Barclays has told us that 
Mr J wouldnt  have been able to continue onto the next screen without  making a decision on 
whether or not to take out the cover. 
Ive also seen a copy of the applications  report which recorded the answers  Mr J gave online 
and this shows a Y in the box for PPI. But I think this box wouldve had an N in it if Mr J 
had ticked no to the PPI  so I think this reflected what he wanted at the time.
As this was an internet sale and theres  no evidence Mr J spoke to anyone  from Barclays 
while completing his application, its likely to have been a non-advised sale. This means  
Barclays didnt have  to check if it was right for him but it did have to make sure Mr J got the 
information he needed to decide if the policy was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable and 
as Ive not seen  any evidence  Mr J had any sick pay or savings at the time which he 
couldve used to make  his repayments   I think the PPI would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put him 
off taking out the cover.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But Barclays  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Barclays didnt  tell Mr J, that 
was unfair.
Ref: DRN13337622To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1333762