K821x#15Complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the sale, and subsequent  monitoring of, a personal pension  
scheme. Mr R says the initial advice he was given was unsuitable, as it involved him 
transferring out of a defined benefit pension scheme  which he now considers was valuable  
to him. He also complains  about  the role of third party in the advice he was given  he says 
this wasnt explained  to him. And he says ongoing  charges taken from the personal  pension 
were undeclared and not agreed to, and that he was also not given the service these 
charges were taken  for. 
Background
Mr R had a long-standing relationship with an advisor at James Gregory Financial Limited 
(James Gregory)  a Mr G. At the start of the events subject to complaint Mr R had three 
existing pension schemes  two occupational schemes (one defined  benefit and one defined 
contribution) and a personal pension. Mr R says Mr G contacted him in early 2015  and said 
he should transfer his existing pensions  to an AXA personal pension. He says Mr G told him 
this was an opportunity  too good to miss, and that AXA was closing  to new business  soon  
so he should act quickly. Mr R says he agreed, and a meeting was arranged, which a third 
party attended  who Mr R said, when  making his initial complaint to James  Gregory,  he 
understood was a representative of AXA (although, as I set out below, the third party was in 
fact an advisor from another firm). Following this meeting an application for an AXA personal  
pension was made, and Mr Rs existing pensions were transferred into the AXA personal 
pension. 
James Gregory  has provided very little in terms of written records from the time Mr R says 
he received initial advice from Mr G to move his existing  pensions. James Gregory  says it 
introduced Mr R to another firm of financial advisors, which  Ill call Firm A, as it did not have 
regulatory permission  to give pension transfer advice. And Firm A is accordingly  responsible  
for the suitability of the transfer  from Mr Rs existing  pensions  to the AXA personal pension.  
The following  is not disputed: 
Mr R initially  spoke to Mr G at James  Gregory about his pension arrangements.
A meeting was arranged with Mr R which both Mr G and an advisor from Firm A (the 
third party  Mr R recalls)  attended.
On 23 March 2015, Firm A produced a suitability report, setting out its advice to Mr R 
to transfer his defined benefit scheme to the AXA personal  pension, and on the 
investment fund the transferred cash should  be invested into. 
On 30 March 2015 an application was made  to AXA for the transfer  of all three of   
Mr Rs existing pensions to a AXA personal  pension. Firm A was recorded as the 
financial advisor on the application form. 
Transfers into the AXA personal  pension were made on 1 May 2015 (the defined 
benefit scheme), 18 May 2015  (the personal  pension) and 17 June 2015 (the defined 
contribution scheme). The money  was all subsequently invested in the investment  
fund Firm A had recommended in its suitability report. 
Ref: DRN16549432The AXA personal pension  was invested  100% in the ALI AB Global Strategy 60/40  
Fund  a fund that invested  60% in global equities and 40% in global bonds. A 
protect 75 option was added. This essentially guaranteed the return  of the original 
investment amount  if Mr R died before he turned  75. 
On 29 September  2015 the financial advisor on the personal  pension was changed 
from Firm A to James  Gregory. 
On 16 August 2016 Mr R changed  the guaranteed benefit added to the AXA personal 
pension, on the advice of Mr G at James  Gregory. The protect 75 option was 
cancelled and a 5 year capital guarantee  was added instead. At the same  time, Mr G 
said James Gregory  had reviewed the investment Mr R held and it remained 
appropriate for Mr R based on his needs and circumstances. 
On 17 December 2018, after Mr R had appointed new financial advisors, the AXA 
personal pension  was closed and the cash held in it transferred to a new personal 
pension. 
Mr R exchanged a number of letters with James  Gregory during the course of making his 
initial complaint.  His main points, in summary,  were:  
He was poorly advised  to make the transfer, and has been  disadvantaged  as a 
result. 
When the AXA personal pension was set up it was split into several different policies, 
which was poor practice and certainly disadvantageous to him.
The initial set up charges and commissions were excessive.
He is astonished  that a third party received a commission.
He had no information relating to the charges/set up fees in advance  of the pension 
being set up.
The pension has performed poorly,  and little was done to address this. 
He was meant to have  received  a quarterly update from James Gregory but only 
received one, and nothing since.
James Gregory  also recommended additional guarantees be added  to his AXA 
pension without advising that these would incur  additional and significant charges. 
Had he known the cost of these guarantees  he would  not have agreed  to them.  In 
light of the poor performance of AXA they were worthless anyway. 
In response to the complaint James  Gregory said, in summary:  
The original pension  transfer was carried out by a defined benefit  pension transfer 
specialist  Firm A. James  Gregory was Mr Rs financial  advisor  but the specialist 
nature of pension  transfers meant  an independent  review of Mr Rs circumstances 
had to be carried out by Firm A before any recommendation could  be made to 
transfer from the defined benefit scheme. 
Ref: DRN16549433James Gregory  acted  only on a referral basis to Firm A. Firm A ultimately  gave the 
initial advice to transfer to AXA and holds  the complete file including  the reasons and 
rationale for this advice . 
The advisor from Firm A explained  to Mr R who he was, and what Firm As role was.
The purpose of splitting the funds  into different policies was to give greater flexibility 
at retirement, but that option has become less relevant now, due to the rule changes 
since the transfer was made.  
The initial commission  was paid to Firm A, as the pension transfer specialist. 
All fees or charges  were explained  in the paperwork given to Mr R and he was 
provided with a full breakdown along with cancellation rights. Some paperwork  
initially went to the wrong address but this was rectified, as far as its concerned. 
The AXA personal pension  was more expensive than some products but Firm A 
discussed an illustration  of the AXA personal  pension with Mr R. This set out all the 
costs involved.  It also understood Mr R had left the meeting  between him, Mr G, and 
Firm A with all the relevant documents. 
Its unfortunate that market conditions led to a fall in the value of the AXA personal 
pension. This was discussed between Mr G and Mr R, and the capital guarantee was 
added in 2016 to protect the pension from further market fluctuations. Mr G then 
discussed moving to a new provider in 2018 (this advice was not accepted by Mr R, 
and he appointed a new firm of financial advisors). 
The performance of the investment fund held in the pension was beyond its control. It 
did keep the investment under  review,  and the performance  needs  to be viewed over 
the long term. 
James Gregory  also said it had passed the details  of the complaint to Firm A. Firm A later 
confirmed that half of the 3% (of the total sum transferred  to AXA) fee it took for providing 
advice was given  to James Gregory.  
On receiving James Gregorys response  Mr R said he had not seen  the paperwork 
mentioned and had understood it was Mr G advising him throughout  he thought the 
advisor from Firm A was a representative of AXA.  He also said he would never  have 
considered making  the transfer had he not understood Mr G was recommending it as he 
would not have accepted  advice from a business  unknown to him (i.e. Firm A). 
Mr R was unhappy with James Gregorys response and so referred his complaint to us. On 
review of the complaint referred to us we set up a second complaint against Firm A. I am 
considering that complaint alongside this one, as the events  are connected. 
Our adjudicators (the complaint was reallocated to a second adjudicator after the first one 
left the service) concluded some aspects of Mr Rs complaint against  James Gregory  should  
be upheld, but not others.  They said, in summary:
James Gregory  met with Mr R in August 2016,  which was nearly  a year after it took
Ref: DRN16549434over the AXA pension. A review of arrangements should have taken place  much  
earlier. 
James Gregorys  client  agreement states  that its Financial Management Service 
includes the option of a six monthly  review meeting, for a minimum cost of £1,000 per 
annum. This was reconfirmed  in James Gregorys letter in August 2016, which 
confirmed that in return for the 1% annual  fee, Mr R would  receive bi-annual or six 
monthly meetings,  however, apart from the meeting  in August 2016, theres no 
evidence these  took place.
A meeting took place at Mr Rs golf club in May 2017, however there was no 
evidence that his risk profile was assessed,  or a full financial  review took place.
James Gregory  did not provide the full service  to Mr R that was promised. There  
were elements of the agreement that were provided, such as maintaining his file and 
providing him access to an adviser,  however the full six monthly  reviews  were not 
provided.
The advice provided to Mr R in August 2016  to add the capital guarantee was 
suitable. The AXA plan had been  in force for less than two years at that point,  and Mr 
R was concerned about the potential for loss of the capital value. So it was 
reasonable for James Gregory to recommend adding the guarantee. A letter  dated  
17 August 2016 sent by James Gregory to Mr R confirmed that a discussion 
regarding his risk profile had taken place, and also outlined the additional  charges 
incurred in taking  the capital guarantee.
Although the performance of the AXA plan had been disappointing  for Mr R, James  
Gregory was not responsible for this, as it had no direct control over the decisions 
made by the fund manager. A medium investment  risk was also appropriate for Mr R, 
although because  of his concerns about  performance  and his desire  for more 
certainty, it was appropriate to take advantage of the capital guarantee option.
The first adjudicator said James Gregory should  pay Mr R £500, to compensate him for of 
the trouble and upset caused.
The second  adjudicator took a different view on compensation.  She said James  Gregory 
should compare  the value  of the AXA pension when it was transferred elsewhere in 2018 to 
the value it would have, had James  Gregorys ongoing fees not been  taken from it, and pay 
£150 compensation for the trouble and upset. 
James Gregory  did not accept the view but said, as a gesture of goodwill, it would offer to 
return the half the ongoing  fees it had taken  an amount of £3,654.50.
Mr R said he was not prepared to accept this offer. He said, in summary: 
He strongly feels that James Gregory is more responsible than the adjudicators  have 
concluded.
While  his overall position remains unclear it does not make sense to accept a part 
settlement  the complaint in its entirety  (i.e. including the actions of Firm A) needs  to 
be decided upon.
Ref: DRN16549435Whilst he appreciates James Gregorys revised  offer to settle  that remains  for him 
part of the bigger  picture and for that reason  he cannot accept it as a full and final 
settlement.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision  on this complaint. My provisional findings  were as 
follows: 
Its clear  that Mr Rs complaint encompasses many points  including  the initial  advice to 
transfer to the AXA personal  pension. So the first point for me to determine is which 
business is responsible for that initial advice.  
I think that is straightforward,  insofar  as the defined benefit scheme is concerned.  Although I 
think it was Mr G of James Gregory who first suggested taking this course of action, the 
evidence is clear that Firm A was appointed to give advice on the transfer  from the defined  
benefit scheme. And that it gave this advice. 
However, that is not the end of the matter  Mr R also transferred (or switched  to use the 
technically accurate  term)  his existing  personal  pension and defined contribution pension to 
the AXA personal pension. And I am satisfied,  despite there being little documentary  
evidence on this point,  that Mr R was advised to do this. That is his testimony and I think it 
very unlikely  he would have taken this course  of action  without  being  advised to take it.  
Mr R says it was Mr G of James Gregory who advised him to switch the existing personal 
pension and defined  contribution pension  to the AXA personal  pension. Firm As suitability 
report makes  no mention of the existing personal  pension or defined  contribution  pension.  
The terms on which it was appointed, confirmed in the suitability report, also refer only to it 
giving advice on the defined benefit  scheme.  It is clear from the suitability report its advice 
was restricted to the transfer  from that scheme to the AXA personal pension (and the 
investment to be made using the defined  benefit transfer funds).  
Firm A is however recorded on the application form for the AXA personal  pension  and the 
application does  include the existing personal  pension and defined contribution pension. 
Firm A also received commission for the switches of those  two schemes - although that 
commission was shared with James  Gregory.  
Having carefully weighed up the available  evidence, I am satisfied James  Gregory gave the 
advice to Mr R to switch from existing personal  pension and defined contribution pension to 
the AXA personal pension. So it is responsible the initial  advice, insofar as it relates to the 
personal pension  and defined contribution pension. Firm A only got involved to deal with the 
part of the transaction which extended  beyond the scope of James Gregorys permissions 
i.e. the transfer  from the defined benefit scheme. But James  Gregory  had no reason to 
delegate to Firm A for the existing personal pension  and defined  contribution  pensions   the 
switches from those schemes to the AXA personal pension were  within  James  Gregorys  
permissions. And, as mentioned, Mr Rs recollection  is Mr G advised him  which,  on this 
point at least, is consistent with the documentary evidence, which shows Firm A was only 
appointed to deal with the transfer  from the defined benefit scheme.  
I do not think the fact James Gregory did not set out advice in writing,  as it ought to have 
done, means no advice was given by it  particularly in circumstances where  there is 
insufficient evidence  to show Firm A instead  gave the advice. 
Ref: DRN16549436If James  Gregorys advice  was unsuitable it will be responsible for the ongoing 
consequences of the initial advice to switch from the existing personal pension  and defined 
contribution pension. 
The suitability  of the switches from the existing personal pension and defined 
contribution pension
Having considered the available  evidence, I do not think the advice  to switch from the 
existing personal  pension and defined contribution pension was suitable.  Essentially  
because it incurred costs  without offering any clear advantages to Mr R. 
The charges  on Mr Rs existing  personal pension were as follows:
Annual management charge 0.75%.
Fund expense - split 50%/40%/10% at 0.1%/0.87%/0.13% respectively - so around 
0.5% overall.
A 0.5% guarantee  charge (the guarantee was on income at a chosen retirement 
date, not capital).
A 0.5% renewal commission  charge.
So an annual charge of around 2.25% overall. The personal pension also had an 
establishment charge  of £29.03 monthly  for first six years. This had come to an end around 
the time of the switch (the personal pension had been opened in 2009)
The personal pension  was invested 50% in Cautious Managed, 40% in Adventurous Growth  
and 10% in cash. 
The defined contribution scheme  had a total annual  charge of 1%. It was invested 80% in an 
equity fund and 20% in a managed fund. 
The recommended  AXA personal pension had the following costs associated  with it, per 
year:
An initial  adviser  charge of 3%.
An ongoing adviser charge of 1%. 
A contract  management charge of 0.40%
A fund management charge of 0.50%. 
A Protect  75 Charge of 0.15% (and later a 1.35%  guarantee charge). 
So an annual charge of 2.05% overall  initially,  then an annual charge of 3.3% overall after 
the capital guarantee was added. 
Ref: DRN16549437As mentioned in the background, the AXA personal  pension was invested in the ALI AB 
Global Strategy 60/40 Fund  a fund that invested  60% in global equities  and 40% in global 
bonds. So the profile of Mr Rs investments  was similar,  following the switch. 
Mr Rs scheduled retirement date was in 2023. His existing personal pension  guaranteed 
him a specific income as of that date. Its recorded  in Firm As advice (in relation  to the 
defined benefit  transfer) that Mr R did not want to add a guarantee to the AXA personal 
pension at the outset, because of the high cost of doing so. But its clear guarantees were 
important to him, as he later decided to pay for the guarantee on the AXA personal pension, 
when he became concerned its value might fall. Its worth noting that the guarantee he 
ultimately added,  which  guaranteed the capital value until closer  to his retirement date  was 
not dissimilar to the guarantee he had previously  held (which had a lower cost associated  
with it). 
So for the AXA arrangement to meet Mr Rs needs  involved  a significant increase in the 
ongoing costs,  plus a 3% initial charge  and no significant change to how his pension was 
invested. So it is difficult to see the justification for the change, and the advice was therefore 
unsuitable as it incurred costs unnecessarily. I think James Gregory put its interests ahead 
of Mr Rs, by recommending the change in order to generate the initial  and ongoing fees it 
received. 
There is also insufficient evidence to show Mr R was provided with information that could 
help him make an informed choice  about his options  before the switches.  For example, I 
cant see that he was given reasons why the switches were  in his best interests, and given a 
comparison of the features  and charges associated with the AXA personal pension  and his 
existing schemes. Nor have I seen sufficient evidence to show adequate consideration was 
given to Mr Rs options under  his existing pensions. 
The switches were made  without Mr R being provided with any formal recommendation. So I 
dont believe  that Mr R would have been  in a position to make an informed  choice whether or 
not the switches were  in his best interests.
Had advice been  set out in full, clear, terms to Mr R it is unlikely he would have gone ahead  
and made  the switches. Alternatively, James Gregory simply should not have made the 
recommendation as it ought to have recognised it was not a suitable one. Either way, I am 
satisfied the switches  would not have  gone ahead, had James  Gregory acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
Charges 
Mr R says ongoing charges taken from the AXA personal pension  were undeclared and not 
agreed to, and that he was not given  the service these charges were taken for. 
There is insufficient evidence to show James Gregory fully explained charges to Mr R as 
mentioned, its advice was not documented and no comparison between the AXA personal 
pension and Mr Rs existing personal pension and defined contribution  pension  was set out 
to him. 
There is however evidence to show Firm A provided Mr R with an illustration for the AXA 
personal pension  when giving advice on the defined benefit transfer. And the documentation  
provided by AXA to Mr R sets out charges.  So Mr R ought reasonably  to have been aware of 
the charges. 
Ref: DRN16549438But this point falls away in any event, as the compensation  I set out here (and in the 
complaint against  Firm A) compares the AXA personal pension  to the position Mr R would 
be in, had the switches and transfer  to the AXA personal pension not taken place,  and 
therefore accounts for the difference in the charges applicable to the AXA personal pension 
and Mr Rs previous pensions. 
In summary,  I am satisfied James Gregory gave advice to switch Mr Rs existing  personal  
pension and defined  contribution pension  to the AXA personal  pension, and that its advice 
was unsuitable.  Furthermore, I am satisfied that if James Gregory had given suitable  advice  
Mr R would have stayed  in his existing schemes.  And as the compensation I set out below 
aims to put Mr R in that position,  I do not think any further consideration needs  to be given to 
the points Mr R has made about  the charges applicable to the AXA personal pension. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
James Gregory  initially  sent a brief response saying it accepted my provisional  decision. 
However, it then sent a more substantive response saying it did not accept my provisional 
decision. In that response it said, in summary:  
It does not accept the decision  in relation to the initial  advice on the personal pension 
and the defined contribution scheme  being  given by it. Unfortunately, it does not have 
any specific evidence to back this up. It is fair to say general discussions took place 
with Mr R about the benefits  of the AXA personal pension,  and explaining it may be 
suitable for Mr R. But a further  appointment was then made for Firm A to discuss this 
in detail with Mr R concerning all of his pensions.
It has permissions for personal pension  and defined  contribution  switches.  To try and 
avoid any confusion  for Mr R, it thought it may be appropriate for Firm A to complete 
all of the switches/transfers. It cannot  comment on or understand why this was not 
incorporated in Firm As suitability  report,  but Firm A completed the application form. 
Surely if Firm A had not advised on these products, it would not have included them 
in the application form.
It would  have been in its interests to switch the personal pension and defined  
contribution schemes itself, to achieve  a higher  commission. In hindsight it regrets 
not giving  its own specific recommendation  on Mr Rs personal pension and defined  
contribution schemes, as without  this evidence it is difficult  to substantiate its 
position.
Mr R said he accepted  my provisional  decision,  but wanted to provide a few points of 
clarification: 
Whilst Firm A may have produced  a suitability report it was not issued to him or 
discussed with him at any point, either  by Firm A or James  Gregory  Financial.
Firm A did not provide him with an illustration of the AXA personal pension nor did it 
set out its charges.  He was obviously aware  there  would be charges but not at the 
high level they subsequently turned out to be. He expected  them to be in line with 
what I had been charged previously  by James Gregory. The first he knew  of the 
actual charges/commissions/fees was when he received the documentation from 
AXA which was several months later as it was twice sent to the wrong address.
Ref: DRN16549439He also said he would  incur charges/fees  of 1% and 0.5% on any funds paid in to his current  
pension, and wanted to know how the compensation I was minded to award would take 
account of this. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as I set out in my provisional  findings,  quoted above  for the same reasons. To 
confirm, those provisional findings form part of this final decision. 
For completion I confirm that, for the reasons  given  in my provisional  decision:
I remain satisfied James  Gregory gave advice to switch  Mr Rs existing personal  
pension and defined  contribution pension  to the AXA personal  pension.
I remain of the view that its advice was unsuitable. 
I remain satisfied that if James Gregory had given suitable advice Mr R would  have 
stayed in his existing schemes.
I again acknowledge that Firm A submitted the application to AXA which included details of 
the personal pension and defined contribution  schemes. But all the other evidence  points  to 
it being James Gregory that gave  advice on the personal pension  and defined  contribution  
scheme switches. I note James Gregorys point that it could  have taken all the commission 
on the personal pension and defined  contribution  switches.  But this overlooks that it was not 
allowed to take commission  and in any event the fee (3% of the value of all the schemes 
switched or transferred) was shared between it and Firm A.
I note Mr Rs points, and accept he may not have seen all the documents I referred  to in my 
provisional decision. However this does not, ultimately, impact my overall findings. The 
suitability report only details advice  on the defined benefit scheme   it makes no mention of 
the personal pension and defined contribution  schemes I am considering here.  And, insofar 
as the report and illustration are relevant  to Mr Rs complaint about not being aware of fees, 
this is not something  I need to consider. This point falls away, given my view (set out again 
below) that it is fair to ask James Gregory to effectively put Mr R in the position he would be 
had he not switched out of his personal  pension and defined contribution schemes (and 
therefore not paid the fees associated with the AXA personal pension). 
Fair compensation 
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
Mr R has told us he only considered (and then agreed to) switching or transferring his 
pensions as a result of being contacted by James Gregory. 
In the complaint against Firm A I have set out why I think it gave unsuitable advice  to 
transfer from the defined benefit scheme and why it is fair, ultimately, to hold it responsible 
for any loss arising  from that transfer to date, even though it was instigated  by James 
Gregorys initial contact with Mr R and James  Gregory became the advisor to the AXA 
Ref: DRN165494310personal pension  some months  after the defined benefit transfer  completed. So that leaves 
the existing personal  pension  and defined contribution pension  which,  for the reasons given, 
I think James  Gregory advised on, unsuitably. 
So I think to calculate  fair compensation here James Gregory  should  compare the position  
Mr R would be in, or would likely be in, had he not switched  out of his existing personal 
pension and defined  contribution. 
The comparison should  be based  on the current notional transfer value  of the original  
personal pension  and defined contribution pension against the value of the relevant portion 
of the AXA personal pension.  The period over which  the comparison should be made is from 
date of the switch  advised  by James Gregory to the date of the further switch in 2018.  And if 
this shows that there is a loss, after that, a return calculated  by reference to a suitable 
benchmark should be paid on any loss. 
The original  personal  pension and defined contribution pension represented £110,859.91  of 
the total £384,909.54  transferred  to the AXA personal pension. So the relevant portion of the 
AXA personal pension  is 28.8%. 
That means James Gregory should  compare the performance of the existing personal 
pension and defined  contribution pension,  had they remained as they were  to the 
performance of 28.8%  of the AXA personal  pension, to the date Mr R switched  out of the 
AXA personal pension.  
Thereafter, I think it would be fair for James  Gregory to use a benchmark,  rather  than 
compare the position with the existing personal pension  and defined  contribution  pension  to 
investments and a scheme which another IFA advised on. The benchmark I have chosen is 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. 
Ive chosen the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income  Total Return Index as the benchmark for 
this latter  part of the calculation because:
Mr R wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income Total Return Index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Rs circumstances and risk attitude.  
If the calculations  show there is a loss, and compensation is payable, James  Gregory should 
add interest to this amount at 8% simple per year from date of decision to date of settlement, 
if compensation is not paid within 28 days of it being notified of acceptance. 
If there is a loss, James  Gregory  should  pay into Mr Rs pension  plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN165494311If James  Gregory is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Rs pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would mainly  have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Rs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, so the reduction 
should equal the current basic  rate of tax. However,  if Mr R would have been able to take a 
tax free lump sum, the reduction should  be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If James Gregory deducts income tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mr R how much has been  taken off. James Gregory should  give Mr 
R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate. 
Finally, I think  it is fair to ask James Gregory to pay Mr R £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr R by its unsuitable  advice. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that James  Gregory Financial Limited  should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2021.
John Pattinson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1654943