K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC)  has voided their home insurance 
policy from its renewal, and therefore not settled their home  insurance  claim. 
background
In August  2018  Mr and Mrs M made  a claim under  their home insurance policy,  after their 
property suffered some water damage. A few days after registering the claim QIC told 
Mr and Mrs M that it intended to avoid  their insurance policy. And it went  on to do this.
It said this was because  Mr and Mrs M hadnt accurately disclosed their insurance  claim and 
loss history when their policy renewed  in December 2017. It said;
Mr and Mrs M were  sent a renewal notice in November 2017,  which  highlighted that 
their home insurance policy was due for renewal in December  2017.  
this renewal notice  asked Mr and Mrs M to check their policy documents  to make  
sure the details held for them on the policy were  correct. It asked Mr and Mrs M to let 
it know if the information was wrong  and needed  changing.
one of the questions Mr and Mrs M were  asked to check  was in relation to their 
claims history. Mr and Mrs M were asked  whether they had made any home  
insurance claims or reported  any losses to an insurer in the last three  years.
it didnt receive any contact to say the claims information held was wrong.
the claims history detailed on the policy documents wasnt  correct.  It said Mr and Mrs 
M had disclosed one accidental damage  claim  that happened in 2015. But, three 
further claims for accidental damage  all made  in 2016 werent disclosed. So, four 
claims for accidental damage should have been disclosed.
if it had known about these claims it wouldnt have offered cover to Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M have  responded to QICs concerns. Theyve said the claim that was disclosed 
in their policy documents had actually happened in 2014, and therefore  was outside of the 
three year disclosure period. They also said one of the claims detailed on their claims history 
was a duplicate  claim.  So, it said their claims history should only show two claims for 
accidental damage   neither of which was settled  by an insurer.
QIC accepted this was the case. But, it said that even  based  on the two accidental  damage 
losses Mr and Mrs M suffered in 2016 it wouldnt have been able to offer cover. So, it voided  
Mr and Mrs Ms policy from the date of its renewal, and explained it would return 
Mr and Mrs Ms premiums  to them. 
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with this  so referred  their complaint to this service  for an 
independent review. They felt QIC should have completed a check  on their claims history 
before agreeing to provide cover to them. And they said they didnt realise they needed to 
disclose the claims they made that werent  settled.
Ref: DRN18396332Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. She said QIC 
had acted fairly to in avoiding the policy. She felt QIC had asked a clear question about  
Mr and Mrs Ms insurance history, and Mr and Mrs M hadnt taken reasonable care to 
answer this question correctly. And she said she could see QIC wouldnt  have  offered cover  
to Mr and Mrs M had it known full details of their claims history.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. They reiterated  that QIC should have checked their claims 
history before renewing their policy. And they said they had run a mock insurance 
application online  and seen they would have been offered an insurance  policy,  with two 
accidental damage  claims  on their history. 
Our investigator looked into this  and let Mr and Mrs M know that the quotation they had 
received was for a different insurer, so it didnt change her opinion.
Because Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, their complaint  has been  referred  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
When considering  complaints  at this service I must consider the relevant laws and 
regulations  as well as what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  In this case, QIC 
has voided Mr and Ms Ms policy, purchased in December 2017.  The relevant law I must  
give regard to is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  
(CIDRA). So, Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  in line with this.
Firstly, Ive needed to consider  what questions Mr and Mrs M were asked at the renewal of 
their policy  as well as whether the answer  to these questions was correct. 
Mr and Mrs M were  sent their renewal  documentation  in November 2017. Having seen the 
email sent to them at this time, Im aware  they were asked to check that the information on 
the document was correct, and to get in touch  with their insurer if anything  was wrong, or 
details had changed.
Within Mr and Mrs Ms policy document the following question  was asked;
In the past 3 years, has anyone living at the property made any home insurance claims or 
reported any losses to an insurer?
Im satisfied this question was clear  in asking Mr and Mrs M to disclose any losses  or claims 
reported to their insurer over the last three years. So, Mr and Mrs M would have  needed to 
disclose the loss history  they had suffered between December 2014  and December 2017.  
Ive looked at the details  provided of Mr and Mrs Ms loss and claims history, as well as the 
information provided by them. In doing so, Im aware that between December 2014 and 
December 2017  there  were two incidents of accidental  damage reported to their insurer  that 
Mr and Mrs M needed to disclose. But, I can see these incidents  werent  disclosed to QIC. 
Instead, QIC only had information given to it about  a loss that had occurred before the 
relevant three year disclosure period. 
Ref: DRN18396333I havent seen  any evidence to show Mr and Mrs M attempted  to update  their loss history 
with QIC at renewal.  So, based on the above, I think Mr and Mrs M were asked a clear 
question, but they didnt provide the correct  answer to it. I dont think  QIC has acted unfairly 
in saying reasonable care wasnt taken here. Mr and Mrs M would have  been  aware  of 
previous claims and losses they had reported  to their insurer. So, I think  QIC Has acted fairly 
in noting this was something  Mr and Mrs M should have taken care to explain to QIC.
QIC has said that if it had known about Mr and Mrs M previous claims and loss history it 
would not have offered cover to them. So, it has avoided their policy, and returned the 
insurance premium paid to them. The law allows QIC to do what  it would have done, had the 
questions been  answered correctly. And QIC has provided firm evidence  to show  that it 
would not have provided cover had it known the accurate information about previous losses. 
So, Im satisfied QIC acted reasonably in avoiding Mr and Mrs Ms policy.  
Mr and Mrs M have  mentioned that when they ran a quote recently  through the broker they 
took the policy out through; they were able to receive a quote for insurance, with the correct  
two accidental damage incidents  being  disclosed. So, they feel QIC would have  offered 
cover to them even  if the correct information  had been provided at renewal. 
But the quote Mr and Mrs M ran didnt  show QIC offering cover   but another  insurer.  
Different insurers will have different criteria around  what they are willing  to cover.  In this 
instance QIC has shown  it wouldnt have provided Mr and Mrs M with cover. So, Im satisfied 
QIC acted reasonably in avoiding  Mr and Mrs Ms policy.  Given  this, Im not requiring it 
reinstate the policy or deal with the claim Mr and Mrs M made.
Mr and Mrs M have  also referenced  what may have happened when they took out their 
insurance policy originally, in December 2016. They ran a mock  quotation  to show  what they 
would have seen  online when first buying  the policy. They said when they completed this 
test quote they werent able to enter their full claims history. So, they were stopped  from 
providing the relevant information  to QIC in any event. 
Its important to note QIC hasnt avoided the policy Mr and Mrs M took out in 2016.  But 
instead it was the next policy year that was avoided. The December 2017 renewal is a 
separate contract,  so the relevant information for me to consider is the evidence  of what  
happened in 2017, rather than in 2016. But, Ive looked at screen shots Mr and Mrs M have 
sent me, as well as screen shots  from QIC, when it ran the same  process. 
Having looked  at these, I can see there was an opportunity to include up to five claims when 
disclosing insurance history. And if a policyholder attempted to enter more losses  than this it 
wasnt possible to give the information.  Mr and Mrs Ms loss history included  less than five 
losses. So, on balance, I think it was likely they would  have been able to input this 
information at the time. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said QIC should  have checked their insurance and loss history before 
accepting to cover them  initially. But, I dont agree. It is for the policyholder  to provide 
accurate information  about previous losses and claims, and to disclose  this when asked. So, 
I dont think QIC should  have done anything  differently here.
Ref: DRN18396334my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
QIC Europe Ltd to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1839633