K822xComplaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as the Post Office) didnt provide the 
service it should have after he called to make  partial settlement on his fixed sum loan 
agreement. He says this led to arrears building up on his account and adverse information 
being recorded on his credit file. 
Background 
Mr T entered  into a loan with the Post Office  in August 2017. In January 2019 he contacted  
the Post Office  to pay off a significant  amount of the loan.  He chose to use the over payment 
to reduce his monthly payments and says it took the Post office a long time to provide him 
with the new monthly  payment. While this was happening, Mr T says the Post Office 
changed his direct debit to zero without telling him and so no payments were made. He was 
then called to say payment had been  missed and that he needed to pay the amount owed by 
July. He says he wasnt  able to make  the required payment and says the Post Office 
recorded him as refusing to pay and recorded this on his credit  file. He says he received 
letters chasing the arrears payment and although  he was told a default  notice had been  sent 
he didnt recall receiving this.
The Post Office says that Mr T contacted it in January 2019 for a partial settlement quote as 
he wished to make an overpayment towards  his loan. It says he was given incorrect 
information on this call about what the interest  rebate and his monthly payments going 
forward would be. It says that it took until April for this issue  to be resolved and during that 
time it placed Mr Ts payments on hold. It says that this meant  arrears  of just under £800 
built up that then needed to be paid.  
The Post Office says that it contacted the credit  reference agency  to ask that any late 
payment information  that may have  been  recorded  should be removed. It apologised for 
Mr T not receiving a call back when requested and offer to pay him £500 for the trouble and 
upset these issues had caused.
Our investigator thought that the offer made by the Post office to remove  any late payment 
markers form Mr Ts credit file and to pay him £500  compensation was reasonable. He also 
thought it fair that a repayment plan be set up for Mr T to repay the arrears that had built up 
due to this issue.  The Post Office accepted this.
Mr T didnt  accept our investigators view.  He said that the £500  compensation had been 
offered for the issues that occurred in January in response to his partial settlement quote 
and he accepted the compensation for this. However since  then he said that the Post Office  
had acted to damage  his credit file. He said he wasnt  asking for the arrears  to be written  off 
but given they had arisen due to a mistake by the Post Office it was fair that he should be 
allowed to repay  these over several months.  He also said he had needed  to spend a lot of 
time dealing  with this complaint. He felt given the issues  he had experienced he should be 
paid further compensation.
More recently Mr T says he has been contacted  by a company regarding his debt as the 
ownership of this has been transferred.  He said that given the circumstances of this case no 
negative information  should be recorded  on his credit file in regard to this loan.
Ref: DRN10245222My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T entered  into a loan agreement with the Post Office in August  2017 with monthly 
repayment amounts  of just under £400.  In January 2019, he called to make partial 
settlement, choosing to use this to reduce his monthly payments. The Post Office  has said 
that Mr T was provided with incorrect information at this time in regard to the amount of his 
rebate and the ongoing monthly payments.  This issue took time to resolve and while  
outstanding, the Post Office reduced Mr Ts payments to zero.  This resulted in arrears.
Mr T has said that he wasnt told that his payments had been reduced to zero.  He isnt 
disputing that he is liable  for the payments that werent made however he explained when he 
was told of the almost  £800 arrears that he couldnt  pay it at that time and he wanted it to be 
spread over several  months.
Given the arrears on Mr Ts account arose due the initial mistake made by the Post Office  and 
the time it then took to resolve  this, I find it reasonable  that Mr T would  be allowed to pay the 
arrears through  an affordable repayment plan. This was recommended  in our investigators 
view and agreed to by the Post Office.  However  Mr T then said that this wasnt  offered.
I have looked  through  the information provided and can see that in August 2019, Mr T called 
the Post Office  and it was agreed that a standing order would be set up (on top of Mr Ts 
monthly direct debit) to reduce the arrears.  I find it reasonable  that steps were  taken  to set 
up a repayment  plan for Mr T.
Mr T was also concerned that his credit file was showing adverse information  due to the 
actions taken by the Post Office. I have seen a copy of contact between the Post Office  and 
the credit  reference  agency asking for the late payment markers from this time to be 
removed. Mr T has also said that he believes all the negative credit  information was 
removed by the Post Office prior to it transferring his loan and that further adverse 
information hadnt been recorded. Therefore I find that this issue has been resolved.
Mr T has also complained about  his calls not being returned and the length of time it has 
taken for his complaint to be resolved. In its final response letter  dated April 2019, the Post 
Office apologised  for not returning a call and also offered  Mr T £500 for the trouble and 
upset he had been caused. I note Mr Ts comments about accepting this as compensation 
for the issue  that arose  in January but believing further compensation is required for the 
more recent  issues.
I have considered Mr Ts comment however, as I understand the adverse credit information 
has been removed  and a payment plan was set up for the arrears to be repaid, I find that the 
£500 offered by the Post Office is sufficient  in regard to this complaint.
Ref: DRN10245223My final decision
My final decision is that the £500 compensation offered by the Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
(trading as the Post Office) - along with the actions taken in regard to Mr Ts credit file and 
setting up a repayment plan - is sufficient in regard to the issues raised in this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1024522