K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way Zenith Insurance plc handled a claim under their 
home insurance policy following a water  leak.
background
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs P made  a claim to Zenith after discovering  that the wooden 
floor under the vinyl in their bathroom  was wet and rotten. Water had been running behind  
their shower tray because  some tiles were  loose and there was a gap in the sealant.
Zenith accepted  the claim and arranged for the bathroom  to be stripped out and dried. It was 
certified as dry by the end of November. Mr and Mrs P and Zenith  didnt agree regarding  the 
repairs. Mr and Mrs P wanted the walls to be fitted  with a water-proof panel  instead of re-
tiling it. Zenith said their policy only covered a like for like replacement and as they hadnt  
had a water-proof  panel originally, it wouldnt cover the additional  cost of this.
On 18 January 2019 Zenith offered a cash settlement of £1774  plus VAT, less the policy 
excess for the repairs. Mr and Mrs P said theyd  obtain estimates in order  to review the 
offer. At the end of January Mr and Mrs P sent Zenith photos which  they felt showed  that 
Zeniths contractor had damaged the shower  cubicle during  the strip-out  work. Zeniths 
claims handler replied the same  day and said it would add the cost of repairing this to the 
cash settlement.
On 7 February 2019 Zenith offered a revised  settlement of £2498 plus VAT, less the 
policy excess. It hadnt received any quotes  from Mr and Mrs P, so this was based on its 
own estimate. The VAT was to be reimbursed on receipt of a VAT invoice. This offer took 
into account electricity used during drying and also the initial  tracing of the leak. Mr and 
Mrs P accepted the offer on 19 February.  They say they felt they had no option but to 
agree this and only accepted it under protest. The claim was paid at the end of February.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Zenith about the way their claim had been handled. In 
particular, they were unhappy that they werent told about the damage  to their shower 
cubicle which they think was caused  by Zeniths  agent. They  were  concerned  that the 
damage might happen again if their wall was retiled rather than fitted  with a water-proof 
panel. They  also felt Zeniths claims handler  had deliberately delayed  their claim to put 
pressure on them to reach a settlement, knowing that their elderly  and disabled  parents 
depended on the downstairs bathroom.
Zenith looked into their complaint. It didnt feel it had done anything  wrong. So Mr and Mrs P 
brought their complaint  to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. He thought Zenith  
had acted fairly and reasonably throughout the claims process.
As Mr and Mrs P didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All insurance  claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble attached  to 
them. Some  more than others. But when this service  considers whether to award  
Ref: DRN16128562compensation to consumers for poor claim handling, were looking at what trouble and upset 
the insurer might have caused to its policy holder above and beyond that which wed 
normally expect to see associated with a claim of this type.
I can see that a number of things upset Mr and Mrs P in the course  of this claim and Ive 
looked at them in turn.
Firstly Mr and Mrs P feel that Zenith  was constantly  changing the goal posts  with regard to 
their claim and that led to delays. For example,  Mr and Mrs P were disappointed  that they 
were asked to obtain quotes for repairing the bathroom and submit  them  to Zenith for 
approval. It was up to Zenith to choose how it wanted to settle the claim  by arranging  for its 
contractor to carry out the repairs or to settle  the claim  in cash,  so I dont think there was 
necessarily anything wrong with that approach. But there seems to have been  a 
misunderstanding on Zeniths part that Mr and Mrs P would prefer to carry out the works  
themselves. When it found that this wasnt the case, Zenith apologised for its error and said 
it would  arrange  for its contractor to do the repairs. I think this was reasonable under the 
circumstances. Later  Mr and Mrs P opted for a cash settlement anyway. 
At first Zenith said it would pay for the cost of repairing the damaged bathroom wall and half 
of the cost of retiling the rest of the bathroom with matching tiles. Later  it said it would only 
pay for the cost of retiling  part of the damaged wall. I can see that it made this decision after 
it found that the existing tiles could be reused and so there  was no need  to retile the other 
walls after all. Zenith was only liable to repair the damage caused  by the leak and if it turned 
out that this could be done without having  to use new tiles, I dont think  it was unreasonable  
of it to say that it wouldnt contribute  towards the cost of retiling other undamaged walls.
Another grievance was that Zenith  wouldnt pay for a water-proof panel  which  was a more 
expensive option  than tiling. But Mr and Mrs P were only entitled under their policy to be put 
back into the position they were  in before the damage happened. They could  have paid 
extra for this if theyd wanted but I dont think Zenith treated them unfairly  in refusing to pay 
for something better  than theyd previously  had.
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy that the original settlement  offer didnt include repairing 
damage to their shower cubicle which they feel was caused by Zeniths contractor together  
with their electricity costs for drying  the property and VAT. Zenith quickly remedied this when 
it was pointed out by Mr and Mrs P. Although  Mr and Mrs P think  Zenith  was trying to take 
advantage of them, Ive no reason to believe this was anything  other  than a genuine  
oversight on Zeniths  part which it put right very quickly.
Having looked  at a timeline  of this claim I havent  seen any unnecessary delays  on Zeniths 
part. I also havent seen  any evidence that Zenith was deliberately trying to delay the claim 
to put pressure on Mr and Mrs P to accept a lower settlement than they were  entitled to.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed  by this but Im not persuaded that there 
are any grounds for Zenith to pay them compensation  on account of its claim handling.
Ref: DRN16128563my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1612856