K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way that Society  of Lloyds has dealt with his claim under his 
Premier Guarantee building warranty under  the Defects insurance part of the said warranty.
background
Mr A completed the purchase of his new property in May 2010. Prior to purchase  his 
solicitors had sought assurances  as to protection from Radon gas. The developers solicitors 
advised that there was no Radon on site as it was fully remediated before development 
took place. They further advised that a membrane had been  put down over the site in 
accordance with best practice. In July 2011  Mr A arranged  to have a test done for the 
presence of Radon.  The test gave  a reading of 150bq/m3. Its understood that action would 
be required  if the reading was above 200 but nevertheless  any Radon protection, according 
to the Health Protection Agency should  bring  levels down to under 100. The report  with the 
test result said the best way of lowering the levels of Radon was either  by installing a Radon 
sump pump or positive ventilation.
Mr A raised a complaint with the developers who advised that the property didnt require a 
Radon barrier. However they offered to carry out extra preventative  work  around the service 
pipes. Mr A turned this down as he couldnt see that such work would cure the problem nor 
that it would  be possible to do so without disrupting  the floor slab and existing (damp  proof 
course) membrane (which also acts as a barrier to Radon).
Mr A referred the matter to Lloyds, as he believed that there had been  no Radon  barrier 
installed. Lloyds  agreed to consider it as part of its conciliation service. It instructed the 
developers to carry out investigative work  to ascertain the presence  of a DPC/Radon  barrier 
at ground level and check the cavity trays.  The investigative work was carried out. The 
contractors found  there  was a Radon barrier/DPC present  but it was evident  that the barrier 
had only been  loose laid over the existing cavity tray of the internal brickwork. The barrier  
was only lapped up to the block work, when it should have been kept away  from the 
blockwork and then taped to the cavity  tray, to form a bond and stop any seepage of the 
gasses into the building.  It was also found  at the service pipes where they entered  the 
property didnt have  meatal top hats to stop gasses coming through those entry  points. The 
contractors advised  that either the whole  of the ground floor concrete slab would have to be 
removed and a new barrier installed or a Radon sump pump be put in place.
Lloyds arranged to have a further  test done  for the presence of Radon. A three month 
monitoring was carried out from January  to April 2014 This gave readings of 31bq/m3 and 
18bq/m3 in the lounge. Lloyds pointed out the developers  offer to put top hats on the service 
pipes but Mr A continued to doubt whether this was possible. A report  was carried  out by an 
independent engineer in July 2018  who advised that the property  was in an area where 
basic Radon protection measures are required.  It said that the relevant guide produced by 
the Building Research Establishment (BRE211) does not provide exact details on how 
Radon barriers can be formed, simply possible construction scenarios. It is the responsibility 
of the house builder to ensure that barriers  are installed to comply  with the applicable 
standard for that location.
Ultimately Lloyds gave  a final response  to Mr As complaint in January 2019. It said that 
there was no obligation  on the developers to provide a Radon barrier  as the site had been 
remediated at the time of development. The membrane fitted  had to comply with the relevant 
regulations for a DPC.  There was no evidence of any moisture ingress  into the property  so 
Ref: DRN14193212the fact that it hadnt been taped  properly or that service pipes hadnt had top hats fitted 
didnt mean  the DPC wasnt acting as it should.  So it complied with its functional  requirement 
 meaning it wasnt classed as a defect. Lloyds had paid £200  compensation for earlier  
delays in the process and offered a further £200 to recognise further  delays though pointing 
out that it had to consider  large amounts of information.
Mr A didnt agree and said that the compensation offered wasnt  sufficient as it didnt truly 
reflect the time taken  by him on many long phone calls, writing  many emails, reading  many 
emails and the research  that has gone  into the claim.  He further pointed out at that there 
was an obligation  to install a Radon barrier as the developers recognised this in relation to 
BRE211. He said the Radon barrier was not installed  correctly and offered no protection  at 
all to the Radon gas entering  the property. The fact that the one that was installed didnt 
comply with requirements meant that the work  had to be carried  out on it in accordance with 
the contractors  investigations.
On referral to this service  our investigator  agreed  that there was no need to install a Radon  
barrier so the membrane had only to comply  with the functional requirements of a DPC. He 
thought the compensation  paid/offered was sufficient.
Mr A made a subsequent complaint that Lloyds had been unable to supply him with a copy  
of the technical manual from the time his property was built but had instead supplied  a later 
dated one. Lloyds said that Given that the document was rebranded/opened  and saved as 
a new copy, the date would be amended;  there  is nothing that we can do about  this. It 
confirmed however that the wording in the 2009  manual supplied was the same  as that of 
the 2008 version, only the formatting had changed.  The underwriters were quite prepared  to 
address any queries concerning wording  so Lloyds didnt propose  to take any further action.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Premier Guarantee, despite its name, doesnt  guarantee  that the new build property  will 
be constructed according to any particular standard. It is an insurance policy which, 
depending on when  the claim was made (in years 1 to 2 or years  3 to 10) will offer cover 
against certain defects.  For any claim reported  in years 1 to 2) of the policy:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder during the Defects Insurance Period 
against the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying any Defect  in the Housing Unit for 
which the Developer  is responsible and which is discovered and notified  to the Developer 
during the Defects Insurance Period.
The words  in bold are defined in the policy. Defect is defined as:
A failure to comply with a functional requirement in the Technical Manual in respect of the 
construction of the Housing Unit.
The developers say they werent required to install a Radon  barrier but nevertheless  
installed a DPC membrane which also acted as a Radon barrier. Lloyds agrees with this 
position. In particular it points out that the developers solicitors  responded to an enquiry  
from Mr As solicitors  as follows:
Ref: DRN14193213With regard to Radon gas, our client has confirmed that there is no Radon  on site that the
site was fully remediated prior to commencing the development but that in any event a
membrane was put down over the site in accordance with best practice. .
No evidence has been put forward as to what fully remediated  consists  of. My 
understanding is that Radon gas cant simply be removed from a site. Only Mr As solicitors 
will be able to tell him whether  they thought that was a sufficient answer. 
In 2008 when the development started the requirement for properties that may be 
susceptible to Radon gas was set out in the BRE211 guide.  Mr As property is in an area 
where basic Radon protection measures are required. As the guide  sets out examples of the 
type of barrier that can be installed rather  than specifies  what may be needed, it may be that 
the remediation of the site may have been  sufficient to comply with the guidance. But as no 
details of this have been supplied nor so far as I know are available,  I think  that it is likely 
that the Radon protection provided by the damp proof membrane was needed.
The membrane has to comply with a functional requirement in the technical  manual. So far 
as Radon gas is concerned the manual says:
P15: ground floors should be designed and constructed  so that they resist the passage of 
hazardous ground  substances such as Radon  and landfill gases, into the building
p58: In order to achieve a satisfactory  standard  of performance,  all internal services should 
be designed, constructed and installed so that: hazardous  ground  substances  such  as 
Radon and landfill gases  are prevented from entering the building  where access  is made 
for services.
p 62 In order to achieve a satisfactory  standard  of performance,  below  ground  foul and 
surface water drainage  should be designed and constructed  so that: hazardous  ground 
substances such  as Radon and landfill gases are prevented  from entering  the building  
where access is made for drains.
p74 a suitably qualified person such as an engineer or surveyor  must sign a declaration that 
the correct procedures have been  followed regarding site preparation  where a ground  
contaminant may be present on the site of the building.
For the policy to cover  to the sort of work  Mr A believes  is necessary it would have  to be 
shown that the measures  taken werent sufficient  to stop Radon gas entering the property.  
The DPC itself wasnt  fully installed  Ive set out above the quote from the contractors who 
inspected it. Essentially it was laid loose over the cavity tray (damp  proof barrier across  the 
cavity wall) rather  than sealed up to it. The contractors suggested this could cause a 
seepage of gases, though  I bear in mind that at the time of their investigation they were  only 
aware of the quite  high reading of 150bq/m3 obtained by Mr A.
I have to consider  whether the DPC  as it was complied with the functional requirement  in the 
technical manual.  For damp penetration I havent  seen any evidence that it didnt do so i.e. 
theres no evidence  of damp in the property.  For preventing the ingress of Radon gas there 
are as Ive set out two sharply contrasting readings. Mr As reading of 150bq/m3 carried  out 
in July 2011, and Lloyds  readings carried out from January  to April 2014 This gave readings 
of 31bq/m3 and 18bq/m3 in the lounge. I dont know how long Mr A carried out monitoring but 
a three  month period  of testing is said by the Health Protection Agency to be appropriate.
Ref: DRN14193214The test result document obtained by Lloyds  sets a level at which action is required to be 
taken  that is 200bq/m3. Any remedial action sets a target  to bring  it below 100bq/m3. The 
developers have pointed out that that target  only came into effect in 2011.
My conclusion from the results of testing is that its likely  that the level of Radon gas is at an 
acceptable level. Certainly Ive seen no further  results of testing. So whilst the developers  
offered to carry out more work to the service  points that was a goodwill gesture and it 
doesnt mean in my view that the existing  protection is inadequate to resist the passage of 
Radon and other gasses.  So I wont require  Lloyds to take any further action. I should 
emphasise that this decision  concerns the liability of Lloyds under the Premier Guarantee 
and doesnt concern any contractual liability between the developers  and Mr A.
As for the compensation paid, Lloyds position didnt change after it took over dealing with 
the matter, so although Mr A carried out a lot of research, wrote  letters  and emails and had 
phone conversations with Lloyds I think it only has to compensate for any delays in carrying 
out tests and in carrying  out inspections. It has paid out £200 and offered a further  £200  for 
those delays which I think is reasonable. If Mr A wants to accept that further offer he should 
contact Lloyds directly.
Mr As final complaint concerns the provision of the technical manual.  Lloyds  hasnt been  
able to supply  him with a copy of the 2008 version  of the manual, only one with a last 
modified date of 11 May 2009.  The underwriters  have  confirmed  that the wording in the 
manual didnt change, only the formatting. Lloyds has confirmed that the underwriters  
system cant  produce the copy dated  as Mr A wishes but that they will address any concerns 
about the wording. Given that response, I dont  think theres any action I can take.  I cant 
direct Lloyds to produce an earlier copy if it cant do that. I think  its reasonable to accept the 
underwriters assurance that the technical manuals  wording  remained unchanged. I also 
think it unlikely that the 2008 version would impose  more onerous requirements than the 
2009 version. I have  advised Mr A that this was my view on the matter and he has told us he 
has nothing further  to add on this point.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1419321