K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the quality of the car he is leasing from Mercedes-Benz  Financial
Services UK Limited and the service he has received.  He wants  to be able to reject  the car.
background
Mr H entered into a four year lease  agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services
(MBFS) in November 2016. The car was brand new when the lease began.
Mr H first experienced problems in March 2017,  the issues included a loss of power, a
grinding noise when driving slowly and the engine management light (EML) coming on.
Diagnostics carried out in April 2017 revealed  fault codes relating to the NOX sensor and
injector valve. A component had come  loose allowing some  water  ingress. Repairs  were
carried out under the warranty and the dealership  gave Mr H £100  for the inconvenience to
that point.
In May 2017  Mr H reported  the EML was back on. The dealership undertook  further
diagnostics and found similar issues to before,  with more water ingress. Further  repairs  were
carried out.
In December 2017 Mr H reported the EML was back on. The NOX sensor was replaced for a
second time. An unexpected rattling noise was investigated and some adjustments  made.
And around  the same time a noise/vibration present when reversing was also investigated.
Mr H complained to MBFS about all of the issues hed experienced  with the car and the way
things had been dealt with.
MBFS arranged an independent  inspection of the car. The subsequent report said the EML
didnt come on during  the inspection. But that there  were rattle noises when in reverse gear,
warranting further investigation.
MBFS rejected the complaint on the grounds  that the EML relates to numerous  potential
problems and it wasnt persuaded  there was a manufacturing  fault with the car.
Mr H referred  his complaint to us. In addition to wanting to be able to reject the car and being
unhappy with the way things had been  dealt  with, he said the EML repeatedly  coming on
had caused him concern when driving, in terms of worrying about  what  was wrong with the 
car and what might  happen.  He said it had caused  him to use the car less than he otherwise  
would. He also expressed frustration at the disruption caused by the car needing to go back  
to the garage  so many times.
An investigator here looked into things  and recommended  that Mr H should be able to reject
the car, receive  compensation for when  hes been  without it and also the distress  and
inconvenience caused to him.
MBFS disagreed, so the case was passed to me for a final decision.  I issued a provisional 
decision on this case on 19 December 2018.  In this I said:
MBFS supplied Mr H a car under a hire agreement. Under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015,
MBFS is responsible for providing Mr H with goods  of satisfactory  quality. So Ive thought
about whether  it did that.
Ref: DRN13748512Mr H first encountered problems (including the EML coming on) four months  after the lease
began, with the car having been  driven under  5,500  miles. Mr H then encountered  further
problems with the car over the next couple  of months. I can see from the job sheets  that
some work was done to fix some faults   and these  look to be quite big repairs.  And that the
EML light repeatedly came on, requiring investigation.
The job sheet from March  2017  also refers to there being a grinding noise when going at
slow speed.
A reasonable person  would not expect such issues to have arisen so soon on a brand new
car that had covered less than 5,500  miles. Particularly when you consider the description of
the car indicates  a luxury/premium experience and the monthly  rentals were relatively high.
Ive thought about whether it seems  likely  the issues are from wear  and tear or misuse.  But I
havent seen any persuasive evidence of mis-use  and the issues  cant  reasonably be
considered as expected wear and tear at such  an early stage. So I dont  agree with MBFS 
that it supplied  a car of satisfactory quality.
MBFS has said the EML coming on can relate to numerous different issues. This might be
true, however the evidence  suggests the issues have related to similar  things. This includes
a defective component leading to two instances  of water ingress. Also, the NOX sensor was
replaced twice within  a number of months.  But regardless, I dont think  a reasonable person
would expect the sort of ongoing problems that Mr H has had with the car (and which  have
triggered the warning light), even if they relate to unconnected issues.
MBFS has also commented  on the investigators mention of the independent report  of
March 2018. MBFS  says the investigator has misinterpreted the report, in that the engineer
didnt conclude there were any underlying electrical issues.
I agree  the engineer doesnt  conclude within the report that there  was any underlying issue.
However, in an e-mail to Mr H, 2 March 2018,  MBFS did say there does appear to be
some kind of electrical fault underlying  which is maybe why the light in intermittently  coming
on and off. It appears likely that it was this comment that informed the outline of case
within the independent report.  So it appears  that following discussions with the dealer, MBFS
has been led to believe the EML light repeatedly coming on could be due to an underlying
electrical issue. And this seems credible based on the evidence Ive seen so far.
So ultimately an expert report doesnt  confirm an underlying problem with the electrics. It
isnt very conclusive though  it seems like the issue is intermittent which would explain why
it couldnt be replicated. Either way, it is clear  from the job sheets Ive seen that the car has
had a history of issues which lead me to conclude that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when
supplied. Also, the independent report confirms an ongoing rattle  which doesnt appear to
have been fixed  and which follows on from a recent history  of unexpected noises from the
car.
It also appears that the car is still having  problems with the EML - Mr H told us in
August 2018 that the EML had come on again (Mr H has sent pictures to support this) and
that the dealer ordered another  replacement  NOX  sensor. And it appears there are still
unexpected noises. All things considered (and taking into account the relevant provisions of
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015) I think that rejection of the vehicle is now fair and
reasonable.
Ref: DRN13748513In summary,  I dont think the car was of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied  to Mr H. I
think there is very persuasive  evidence of that. Given  the number of times the car was
repaired, and has been looked at in the garage I think  Mr H should really  have been given
the option to reject the car sooner.
I also consider the issues with the car have caused  Mr H a fair bit of unnecessary distress
and inconvenience.  Bearing in mind  Mr H received £100 compensation from the dealership
in April 2017, the additional  £250  MBFS has offered is fair.
I can see that Mr H has had use of the car, so as a starting point MBFS is entitled to keep
the monthly payments. Mr H has said the car has been in the garage for a significant amount
of time, however  hes told us that he has been given a courtesy car on each occasion.
I think though  that Mr H is due something  for impaired usage of the car, from when he first
experienced problems. From  what hes told us, the issues with the car, including  the EML
light keeping  coming on, have caused  him worry in terms of there being underlying issues
that havent been completely remedied.  I accept that this and the unexplained  noises  have
detracted from his driving experience.
This is not a scientific exercise but taking  everything  into account, I think it would be
reasonable for Mr H to receive 15% of his monthly payments since March 2017 back, plus
interest.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  Mr Hs complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited. I currently intend to direct it to allow Mr H to reject the car and to also
do the following  to put things right:
- cancel the agreement, with nothing further  for Mr H to pay
- collect  the car at no cost to Mr H
- refund 15% of each  of the monthly  payments since March  2017, plus 8% simple
interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement 
- pay £250  to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H. For the
avoidance of doubt, this is in addition to the £100 the dealership  paid in April 2017.
I asked both parties for their comments.
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision.
MBFS said that while it feels  the EML errors have been caused by separate issues  (although 
in some cases have had very similar impacts on components),  it has nevertheless decided 
to accept my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional findings that I thought the evidence suggests  the issues with the 
car have  related to similar things.  And that, regardless, I didnt think a reasonable person
would expect the sort of ongoing problems that Mr H has had with the car (and which  have
triggered the warning light), even if they relate to unconnected issues.
Ref: DRN13748514My full provisional findings  are set out above,  and I dont see any reason to depart from them  
here. I still think they are fair and reasonable for the reasons already given, and nothing  
either party has said has made me change my mind.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services  
UK Limited  to:
- cancel the agreement, with nothing further  for Mr H to pay
- collect  the car at no cost to Mr H
- refund 15% of each  of the monthly  payments since March  2017, plus 8% simple
interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement 
- pay £250  to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H. For the
avoidance of doubt, this is in addition to the £100 the dealership  paid in April 2017.
 If MBFS considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it has taken off. MBFS should also
give Mr H a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Ben Brewer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1374851