K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Canada  Square Operations Limited  (trading  as Egg) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
The policy was added  to the card when  Mrs M took out a credit  card via the Egg website in 
2008. The policy cost £0.79 for every £100.00 of the credit  cards balance and in the event of 
a successful claim, could  have paid 10% of the monthly balance for up to 12 months.
 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Egg disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 28 March 2019,  a copy of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 28 April 2019. Mrs Ms representative has acknowledged that they 
have received the provisional decision and they have  no further submissions they wish to 
make. At the time of writing Egg has not responded despite us sending the provisional 
decision by email and post to their recognised addresses. But the outcome I reached  in my 
provisional decision was the same  outcome  they reached in their final response letter to 
Mrs M, so Egg may not have wanted  to respond. But, in any event, I consider that Egg has 
had sufficient time to make a response had they wished to. So I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend upholding 
Mrs Ms complaint. I explain why below.
Ive considered the internet screens  Egg has provided. It seems that Mrs M had to select  
either Yes to add PPI to her card, or No not to. Egg has said Mrs M wouldnt have been 
able to proceed with her application unless  she chose one of these options. Egg says that 
neither answer  was preselected for Mrs M so she should have  understood this was 
something she could  say No to. So, overall, I think its likely Mrs M selected Yes and did 
so knowing this was something she could have  said No to, even if she doesnt remember 
that now, many years  later. 
Egg didnt  recommend that Mrs M take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. Instead Egg had to provide information that was clear  and not misleading so that Mrs M 
could decide about the policy  for herself.  
Ref: DRN15430012Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been - including the information about the cost of the policy.  But based on what I know about 
Mrs Ms circumstances  and the cost of the policy, I dont think  better information would have 
stopped her from buying it.
I say this because  Mrs M was eligible for the policy, and she wasnt  affected  by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. In saying that, Ive considered that Mrs M told us 
that she had two medical conditions. If the condition existed before the policy was sold to 
Mrs M it may not have  been covered by the policy if it reoccurred. And that could have  been  
an issue for a consumer. In this case Ive noted  that Mrs M told us the conditions  hadnt cost 
her any time off work  and that may have been  because, as she told us, she had these 
conditions well controlled. So I do not think that Mrs M would have expected these 
conditions to be the reasons for her having to take time off work in the future, for the length 
of time required to be able to make a claim under the policy. And the policy would have  
covered Mrs M for any medical conditions that she hadnt had before the time of the sale and 
would also have provided help in the event she lost her job. So Im not persuaded that Mrs M 
would have been put off the policy had she received better information about the policy.  
And I think Mrs M could have found  the policy useful. I say this because Mrs M told us had 
sick pay that would have lasted for no more than six months. And whilst Mrs M told us she 
had some savings, she couldnt recall  what  they were. But the policy could have  paid 10% of 
the balance for up to 12 months if she was too ill to work, or if she lost her job. So as this 
would have been in addition to whatever  sick pay she may have received, and as this would 
have protected  her savings, I think the policy could  have been useful to Mrs M. 
So I dont  think that Mrs M lost out as a result of anything Egg might have done wrong. 
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Egg will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M, if it hasnt already, because: 
When the policy was sold, Egg expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mrs M about that. 
Because Egg didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN15430013what the business needs  to do
Egg has to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Egg should  also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest Mrs M paid 
because of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs M the difference between  
what Mrs M owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay Mrs M 8%* simple  interest  
if Mrs M paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax..
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so Canada Square Operations Limited  doesnt  have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  must pay back  to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  1 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1543001