K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the amount  he was refunded by Orwell Insurance Services Limited  
when he cancelled his unoccupied property insurance policy mid-term. He also complains 
that the policy charges werent explained  clearly.
background
In October  2018, Mr S was trying to sell his late mothers  home  but was unsure how long it 
might take him to do so. As the house  was empty he decided  to purchase an un-occupied 
property insurance  policy,  obtaining  quotes  from a price comparison site. Mr S chose  Orwell 
from a number of quotes  he obtained because it included the option to cancel the policy mid-
term and receive a pro-rated return of premium which he thought he might  need if he sold 
the house at some point during the policy year. Mr S paid the annual premium  of £210.83 in 
full by credit  card and received the policy documentation the same day. 
Mr S sold the house on 17 May 2019 and contacted  Orwell  to cancel the policy from the 
same date. Orwell told Mr S itd cancelled the policy with immediate effect and that he was 
due a refund  of £32.66.  Mr S immediately replied to say that he was disappointed  with the 
amount of the refund given just under half the policy year still remained. Orwell replied, 
setting out how the refund  was calculated  and that itd deducted its cancellation charge (of 
£25) and outstanding commission  (£27.87)  from the full returned premium amount (£85.53)  
leaving £32.66  to be refunded.
Orwell said to Mr S that all the relevant documentation had been emailed to him immediately 
after he took the policy out including  its own terms of business (containing its service 
charges). It pointed out that the policy came with a 14-day cancellation period during which 
time he couldve cancelled the policy if he was unhappy with it or felt it didnt meet  his needs. 
However, Orwell noticed Mr S hadnt chosen  to cancel.  
Mr S told Orwell that if he didnt receive a full refund of his unused premium he would 
complain to this service. Orwell replied the following day to say that, as a gesture of goodwill, 
it was willing  to forgo the balance of its commission (£27.87) but would be retaining  its 
cancellation fee. Mr S declined  to accept Orwells offer. Three  days later Orwell issued its 
final response to Mr Ss complaint but its position on the matter  didnt change.
Unhappy with Orwells findings, Mr S complained to this service.  He said the cancellation 
costs hadnt been drawn  to his attention at the point of sale. He said Orwell had been aware 
that he was likely to cancel the policy mid-term so had deliberately  misled  him as a 
consequence of its confusing and misleading sales approach. Finally,  Mr S said he wanted  
this service to raise Orwells practices with the Financial Conduct Authority to ensure that 
insurance businesses  couldnt take advantage  of unsuspecting customers  in the future. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint but didnt think Orwell had treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably, so he didnt recommend that it was upheld. Mr S said in reply  that he would 
like the £25 cancellation fee returned  to him as well and he asked for his complaint  to be 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2020 and I thought the complaint  
should be upheld  in part. I made  the following provisional findings: 
Ref: DRN11833952my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Brokers such  as Orwell incur costs for the work they do on behalf of their customers.  These 
include costs associated  with the collation and distribution of the relevant documents,  
processing payments  and refunds  and generally  arranging and administering the setting up 
and cancellation  of a policy. To cover those costs,  brokers will charge fees to their 
customers. These fees are separate and in addition to any commission  the insurer will pay a 
broker for placing the policy with it. A broker is obliged to disclose its fees to its customers 
before the policy sale. Usually  they are set out in a brokers terms of business document, 
along with the fact that commission is being  paid,  as they were  here by Orwell.  
Mr S says the cancellation  charges  made by Orwell  including the commission clawback - 
werent drawn to his attention before the sale. From the evidence Ive seen I would have to 
agree. Orwell hasnt suggested  this was disclosed to Mr S during the sales  call, but I note its 
calls arent  recorded.  And I cant see that Orwell sent its terms of business to Mr S before he 
purchased the policy. There  is an email  it sent him before the sale which encloses certain 
documents but not, that I can see, the terms of business. 
The only document that Orwell sent Mr S before the sale that referred to a possible 
cancellation charge was the policy document. I can see it is stated within  it, in the section 
about cancellation, that mid-term cancellations  where the premium has been paid up front 
will attract a pro-rata return of premium.  They also state that the broker may impose  a 
charge upon cancellation.  But it doesnt state  specifically  what the charge is the broker  may 
make  or that there will be a charge at all. And the detail is buried within lots of standard 
information. It isnt highlighted at all. So, I dont  think the fact Orwell sent the policy  
document to Mr S before  the sale can was sufficient  enough to draw the applicable 
cancellation fees to Mr Ss attention  before he bought the policy. To have done so, in the 
absence of any call recording,  I would have to see that Orwell had sent him a copy  of its 
terms of business  clearly setting out its charges before the policy was sold. 
So, whilst I can see that Orwell sent Mr S the correct documentation after the sale,  Im not 
persuaded that the cancellation charges  were  made  clear to Mr S before he bought the 
policy. 
As I dont think Orwell has shown it drew the cancellation charges/fees  to Mr Ss attention  
before the sale I now have to go on to decide  whether Mr S was prejudiced by that failure  or 
not. Mr S says the main reason he chose the policy through Orwell from the number of 
quotes he obtained was because it included the option to cancel mid-term and receive a 
refund of unused premium. Mr S says he thought it was likely hed need to do that. But Ive 
not seen any evidence that even  if the fees had been drawn to Mr Ss attention  that he 
wouldve done anything  different. As Mr S has said that he chose Orwell because of the 
ability to cancel the policy mid-term, its not unreasonable  to think  from this statement that 
presumably this wasnt something that was possible with the other quotes he obtained on 
the price comparison  site. And even if other  policies  did offer mid-term cancellation they too 
wouldve charged him for doing so. So, I dont  think Mr S has been prejudiced  by any failure 
of Orwells to draw the cancellation charges to his attention before the sale. 
Ref: DRN11833953And its worth mentioning  that Orwell has now refunded the commission  clawback in any 
event. It is only the cancellation fee itself  of £25 - that it has charged to Mr S. This is a fee 
he would  have been unlikely to avoid  whoever  he arranged a policy with. So, I dont  think 
Mr S has lost out financially as a consequence  of any failure by Orwell to disclose its 
cancellation charges ahead of the sale. Orwell isnt entitled  to make a profit  from the 
cancellation fees it charges but Im satisfied that the £25 its charged  here is a reasonable 
charge for it to have made for the work  associated  with administering  his cancellation without 
including any element of profit. 
Mr S says the Statement of Price document he was sent by Orwell after the sale showing 
how the figure of £210.83 had been  calculated (premium, plus tax, plus administration  fee 
etc.) was misleading in that neither the cancellation  charge or commission were  mentioned  
on it. Im unable  to agree  with him. Neither  amount formed part of the price Mr S had to pay 
for the policy, so it was reasonable, and quite normal, for these other charges (that might 
never come due) not to be included in the Statement of Price.  It was only upon cancellation 
mid-term, when the insurer presumably clawed back any pro-rated commission itd paid 
Orwell, that its terms of business permitted it to deduct an equivalent  sum from any premium 
return due to Mr S and to charge a cancellation fee. So, Im unable  to agree with Mr S that 
the omission of either the cancellation charge or the commission from the Statement  of 
Price document was misleading. 
Mr S has said hes unhappy that despite the existence of the 14-day cooling off period 
entitling him to a full refund of his premium,  if he had chosen to exercise  that right then 
Orwell would  still have  charged him both a cancellation and an arrangement  fee. I can only 
consider within  the context of this complaint things that have actually  happened.  As Mr S 
didnt cancel the policy during the cooling off period, or incur any charge for doing so, I cant  
look at this for him here. 
 
I think in the circumstances of this complaint,  Orwells  offer to include the commission 
clawback amount with the premium refund is fair. I appreciate that Mr S has said he wants 
the cancellation charge of £25 included as well but I cant fairly award that to him. Orwell has 
the right to charge a cancellation fee and will have incurred costs in administering  Mr Ss 
cancellation mid-term. And any insurer or broker would most likely have charged  Mr S such  
a fee in any event.
Mr S has said that his complaint is less about  securing a full refund  and more  about 
preventing Orwell from using misleading  sales tactics  to deceive clients in the future. Mr S 
maintains that Orwell is in breach of Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  rules  and is looking  
to this service to police  a part of the financial services industry  that lacks  integrity.  
This service is a dispute resolution service.  We resolve individual  complaints between 
consumers and financial businesses. We are not the industry regulator, nor do we police the 
industry. 
Finally, I have also given  some thought to whether Orwell should pay any compensation to 
Mr S. This service  can require a business  to pay some  financial compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  it causes a consumer. I think that Mr S was caused some minor 
frustration by Orwell here, but I dont think it warrants an award of compensation. When 
deciding whether to award compensation I have to have regard to this services  approach  to 
such awards and whether  we have awarded  compensation  in similar complaints. And having 
done so I dont think that I can fairly  or reasonably require Orwell to pay Mr S any 
Ref: DRN11833954compensation given the frustration and inconvenience he was caused was of such  a minor  
nature. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to find that 
Orwell Insurance Services Limited  didnt draw its cancellation charges to Mr Ss attention 
before the sale of his policy. But for the reasons explained above, I dont intend to make any 
award against Orwell Insurance Services.
Orwell replied  to my provisional  decision  to say it accepted that its terms of business werent 
included in the quotation it sent Mr S. It reiterated that it did send them with the policy  
documents on the same day the sale of the policy occurred. It said Mr S wouldve been 
entitled to a full refund  if hed decided within  the 14-day cooling off period  that he didnt wish 
to proceed. It said Mr Ss original complaint was that he wanted to receive a fair return of 
premium which Orwell said it had arranged for him but, it said,  it wasnt prepared to forgo  its 
cancellation fee. It said it was unsure what else it couldve done. 
Mr S replied  with extensive  comments. He said: 
The fees he was charged on cancellation  were not set out prior to the sale so he was 
misled because Orwell hadnt been  clear about the terms  of its offer;
Hed been told during the sales call that the pro-rata refund was a pro-rated refund 
on the total premium  of £210.95;
He disagreed that hed not been  prejudiced by Orwells  failure  to draw the 
cancellation fees/charges to his attention. Hed carried out a thorough  review  of the 
market prior to the purchase to ensure  the product he was buying was cost effective. 
Had he been aware of Orwells  onerous  mid-term cancellation fees he may have 
chosen a policy  with a shorter term (albeit at greater  cost)  but he was assured by 
Orwell that he could cancel mid-term. He found  buying a 12-month  policy  was 
cheaper than buying  a 3, 6 or 9 month one although he estimated it would only take 
him 6 months to sell the house. Had he known  about the high cancellation  fees he 
would probably  have taken out policy with a 6-month term;
He is yet to receive any refund from Orwell.  I was wrong to assume he couldnt  have 
avoided a cancellation fee because  if hed chosen a policy with a shorter  term hed 
not have needed to cancel mid-term so such a fee wouldve  been avoided. He 
accepts that purchasing cover for a shorter term may have been more expensive;
Orwells terms of business state  in the Our service charges section, that any fees 
charged for cancellation are listed in the statement of price document so I am wrong 
to say their omission from the statement of price document wasnt  misleading;
That UK regulations  allow a firm to make a reasonable administration charge when a 
policy is cancelled in the 14-day cooling off period  which  makes such  a cancellation 
unworkable because a charge is always made. The initial pre-sale email made no 
mention of any charge for cancelling within the 14-day cooling off period;
Orwells pre-sale documentation, email and phone call shouldve been  clear about its 
£25 cancellation  charge and shouldnt have misled  him to believe hed be getting  a 
full pro-rated refund of the premium. As it wasnt, charging  one is unfair  because  it 
wasnt stated upfront and pre-sale  so it should be waived.  He wants  a full pro-rated 
refund with no cancellation charge applied;
He is bitterly disappointed in my understanding of his complaint  and this services 
slow response during which time Orwell will have won more  business from 
unsuspecting customers. It would make  sense if this service  reported such  cases as 
Ref: DRN11833955his to the FCA and whilst hes done  so himself hes heard nothing and suspects no 
action has been  taken. Orwell knows its malpractice can go on at no risk of FCA 
intervention. The FCA has wonderful rules  that it makes no effort  to enforce. It would 
be good if I could  liaise with the FCA about  systemic  issues such  as this one;
I underestimate the frustration and inconvenience this matter has caused him. He 
hoped Orwell could  be fined  but as thats  not possible his only resort  is to the media;
He disagrees that the complaint should  be partially upheld. I have failed to deal with 
a large number of inconsistencies and discrepancies within  Orwells documentation 
nor have  I reassured him that Orwell is being  monitored to ensure it refrains  from 
using such sales tactics  in the future.
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing first with the comments made by Orwell, as I said in my provisional findings, I dont 
dispute that it sent its terms  of business  to Mr S with the other  policy documents immediately 
after the sale. As I also said, that isnt what brokers are required  to do  terms of business 
should be sent before the sale. 
Orwell says that Mr S wouldve been entitled  to a full refund if hed cancelled during the 
cooling off period. By this I assume  it means  a full refund of the premium . I have no reason 
to doubt what  it says but its also true (because  its stated to be so in its terms of business) 
that it would  still have levied a cancellation  charge of 10% of the inception premium  
(approximately £21 in Mr Ss case)  in such circumstances.  And the terms of business say 
that thered be no refund  of any service  charge for advising/arranging the policy  either (by 
which I assume is meant the administration fee of £25 listed on the statement of price).  
So, whilst I agree that the premium would be refunded in full, Orwell would still have levied 
its charges should  a cancellation have been  made  in the cooling-off  period (as set out in the 
terms of business). Certainly, Ive seen no reason why it wouldnt have acted in line with its 
terms of business. And it is those  charges  that Mr S was unaware of before the sale was 
executed meaning,  if hed chosen to cancel, even  within 14 days  of inception, he wouldve 
faced a charge  from Orwell  for doing  so of approximately £46. So, I agree with Orwell that a 
full refund of premium  wouldve  been  made but that isnt the full picture as far as the 
customer is concerned  Mr S was unaware that the moment the purchase was executed, it 
would cost him at least £46 to cancel.
I agreed in my provisional findings that the refunding of its commission in the circumstances 
was fair. 
Turning now to Mr Ss points, I said in my provisional findings  that hed not been notified  
about the cancellation fees before he bought  the policy (either those  applicable in the 
cooling off period or those applicable to a mid-term cancellation). I have not cut and pasted 
any paragraphs from Orwells  response  as hes suggested. I said that a broker  is obliged  to 
disclose its fees to its customers before the sale. I also said that Orwell hadnt done so. 
I note what Mr S says about what Orwell told him during their phone  call about receiving a 
fully pro-rated refund should he cancel  mid-term. Given what Orwell has said in response to 
Ref: DRN11833956my provisional decision I think what he says is reasonably plausible. A full return of the pro-
rated premium would be made. What doesnt appear to have been  mentioned  during the call 
is that, in the event  of a mid-term cancellation, Orwell would be deducting  its charges from 
the full return  of premium.   
Without knowing what premium Mr S wouldve been charged for a policy  with a 6-month 
term its not possible for me to reasonably conclude that Orwells failure to disclose its 
cancellation charges to him before the sale was executed prejudiced  him. Mr S himself  says 
the premiums for the 6-month policies he found  were more than for the 12-month policy he 
ended up purchasing. But Ive no way of fairly  knowing if the additional  cost of taking out a 
6-month policy was less than the cost of Orwells cancellation fee of £25 such  that it would 
allow me to reasonably conclude that Mr S had been financially prejudiced  by Orwells 
failings. And I cant ignore  that Mr S himself has said that, had he been aware of Orwells 
cancellation fee/charges, he may have  chosen  a policy/a succession of policies that had 
shorter terms given he didnt know how long hed be needing cover for. For me to 
reasonably conclude that Orwells  failing had prejudiced Mr S, I would need to be persuaded 
that it was more than just a possibility that a pre-sale disclosure of the cancellation charges 
wouldve led him to act differently. 
I note Mr Ss point about avoiding the need to pay a cancellation fee for a mid-term 
cancellation if hed taken a policy with a shorter term. By his own admittance, theres no way 
of knowing if he wouldve done so, even had the cancellation charges been drawn to his 
attention, or whether hed have chosen to stick with the 12-month  policy  because  it wouldve 
cost him less overall to do so.
Mr S says hes not received any refund yet from Orwell. Looking at Orwells final response 
letter of 20 May 2019, it says that if Mr S wishes  to accept  its offer he should sign and return 
the enclosed letter of acceptance within 30 days.  Ive not seen that he did so but I can see 
that Mr S complained  to this service  the day after the letter  was dated. As I understand it, 
Orwells offer remains open  so Mr S should now contact it should he wish to accept it.
Mr S says that Orwells terms of business  state in the Our service charges section, that any 
fees charged for cancellation are listed in the statement of price  document. Consequently, 
Mr S says I was wrong to say the omission  of the cancellation charges from the statement of 
price document wasnt misleading. Ive checked the section of the terms of business  to 
which Mr S refers. After stating fees will be charged for Orwells services  when a policy  
starts, at renewal, cancellation  or mid-term adjustment, it goes on to say: Fees  are also 
charged for instalments, direct debit  payments\arrangements and charge card payments. 
These charges  are listed  below and in the Statement of Price 
As Mr S didnt pay by instalments or direct debit  there were no charges of this nature to 
include in the Statement of Price. And, as I said provisionally, the statement  of price 
document produced at the point of sale reflects the price  of the insurance and relevant 
charges at that point. It isnt reasonable to expect that the cost of cancelling  the policy would  
be listed in that document  because the cancellation  charge doesnt form part of the price of 
the policy at that point.  Its not known, at that point, when, or even if, such a charge will fall 
due. But the charges for cancelling (should that be necessary at any point) are listed  in the 
terms of business, which,  it is not disputed, werent provided to Mr S prior to the sale.
This service is not the industry  regulator and has no responsibility for the regulations relating 
to the cooling  off period. Ive accepted there  was no pre-sale notification by Orwell of the 
charges associated with cancelling  in the cooling off period. As I said provisionally, I can only 
Ref: DRN11833957look at what actually happened. Mr S didnt attempt to cancel during the calling  off period or 
incur any charge for doing  so, so I cant look at this within  the context of this complaint. It is 
worth stating however,  that brokers and insurers have undertaken work and incurred cost 
even when a policy is cancelled during the cooling-off period and the regulator allows such 
financial businesses to make a reasonable charge to cover their costs in such 
circumstances.  
There are effectively two elements to a refund made following a mid-term cancellation. 
Firstly, the return, in full, of any unused pro-rated premium.  And secondly, the charges levied 
for doing so. The latter  is deducted  from the former. As Ive said,  it wasnt  that Mr S was 
incorrectly informed he would receive  a pro-rated full refund of his premium,  rather  it was 
that the charges that would be applied to that refund  (and deducted from the full refund) 
werent communicated to him pre-sale. I accept that Mr S feels  quite strongly that the failure  
of Orwell to set out before the sale that any cancellation mid-term would attract a £25 charge 
means that same charge  should now be refunded to him. He feels misled.  As Ive said, to 
require Orwell to refund the charge I would have to be satisfied that Mr S had been 
prejudiced by Orwells failings. For the reasons Ive already given, I dont think he has been.  
Im unable to agree  that Ive seen  evidence of any systemic issues associated  with Orwell 
but, in any event, Ive been looking at the circumstances  of Mr Ss complaint alone.  It is the 
responsibility of the FCA to regulate the financial services industry and to enforce the rules 
by which  the industry  operates. Mr S, as hes said hes done  already, is free to tell it about 
any issue he may have with a financial firm. The FCA doesnt look into individual  consumer 
complaints though, nor does it generally report back to consumers,  so Im unsurprised that 
hes not heard anything  from it about the issue hes raised.  It is not this services role to 
monitor the sales practices of financial businesses  thats  the role of the FCA. 
Mr S says Ive underestimated  the frustration and inconvenience  hes been caused  by Orwell 
particularly the fact he has had to restate his case in writing  and over the phone to this 
service. And he says that he hoped Orwell would at least be fined. 
This service doesnt fine financial  businesses  that too falls within the remit of the FCA. I 
accept that Mr S wouldve been  caused some minor frustration and inconvenience  by 
Orwells failure to draw its cancellation charges  to his attention before the policy was sold.  
But when deciding  whether to make  an award of compensation I have to have regard to this 
services general approach to such awards. And Im not persuaded that the impact  of 
Orwells actions  has caused  Mr S more than a minor inconvenience  or upset such  that would 
warrant an award of compensation in the circumstances. In reaching  this conclusion I take 
into account too the fact that Orwell has already offered to refund to Mr S an amount 
equivalent to the commission it earned  from the insurer with whom  it placed his business.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I find that Orwell Insurance  Services 
Limited didnt draw its cancellation  charges  to Mr Ss attention before the sale of his policy.  
But for the reasons explained  above,  I dont intend  to make any award against Orwell 
Insurance Services.
Ref: DRN11833958Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1183395