K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declining  his claim for damage to his 
television under  his home insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 September  2019, setting out why I 
wasnt intending to uphold this complaint. I invited both parties to make  any further 
submissions by 18 September 2019  before I finalised matters. 
My provisional decision forms part of this final decision so is attached below. UKI didnt have 
anything further  to add and Mr P hasnt responded to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As UKI has nothing further to add and Mr P hasnt responded to my provisional decision,  I 
have no reason to change  my mind. For the reasons Ive given  in my provisional findings I 
do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, my final decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declining his claim for damage to his television  
under his home insurance policy.
background
Mr P claimed for damage to his television  under  his home insurance policy after his step-grandson 
knocked it off the stand. Mr P says he threw the television away as soon as it was damaged as he 
didnt have space to store it and it was dangerous to keep around his step-grandson as he was 
vulnerable. 
Ref: DRN11469902UKI declined  the claim as Mr P had thrown  the television  away so it wasnt able to inspect it to confirm 
the damage. UKI says the terms and conditions  were sent to Mr P when he took out the policy, so he 
ought to have  known about this. 
Mr P was unhappy  UKI declined the claim  as he says he didnt receive  any information after taking 
out the policy  so he wasnt aware of the terms and conditions. Mr P was also unhappy  with the way 
advisers spoke to him on the phone  something UKI doesnt agree with.
Mr P remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators considered what  
had happened but didnt think it should be upheld. They thought  UKI had acted  reasonably in 
declining the claim as Mr P had thrown the television  away so it wasnt able to inspect the damage as 
set out in the terms and conditions. They also thought more likely than not Mr P was sent the policy 
terms and conditions.  Mr P didnt agree as he says hes been paying for an insurance which he cant  
claim on. So, the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.  I 
understand this will come  as a disappointment to him but Ill explain my reasons  why.
Mr Ps policy does place certain obligations on a policyholder when a claim has been  made. The 
policy says the following:
If you make a buildings, contents, personal possessions or home  emergency claim (but not a liability 
claim)
For any claim you must:
allow  us (or our appointed suppliers)  to access or inspect the damaged items and/or 
property.
UKI declined  Mr Ps claim for his television as he had thrown it away. As per the policy  terms and 
conditions it says it wasnt  able to confirm  the damage to the television so it cant  determine  if the 
television was repairable. UKI acknowledge Mr Ps circumstances around his step-grandson but it 
says he couldve bagged  the damaged television and put it outside or taken  photos of it.
Mr P says hes not able to provide the information  requested by UKI, such as photographs  of the 
damaged television, as he had thrown it away which is also the reason why he isnt able to allow UKI 
to inspect it. 
Taking everything into consideration, I appreciate Mr P says it wasnt safe to keep the television  
around his step-grandson.  But it isnt unusual for an insurer to seek evidence  to inspect a damaged  
item when considering a claim. Mr P has thrown the television away and isnt able to provide evidence  
of the damage to support his claim.  So in the circumstances, I do not consider UKI acted 
unreasonably when it declined the claim and would not settle it without  further information.
Mr P says he didnt receive any information about the policy once he took it out so he wasnt aware of 
the terms and conditions. UKI has provided  us with screenshots  of their system  which show that they 
wouldve sent Mr P a policy booklet along  with the policy  schedule the day he took the policy out. So 
on balance, I think its more likely than not that the policy  details,  including the terms and conditions, 
were sent to Mr P. Nonetheless, most insurance  policies have a standard  requirement to provide 
certain evidence in the event  of claim so I think more likely than not Mr P ought  to have reasonably 
been aware  he wouldve  been asked  to provide evidence  by any insurer.
Mr P was also unhappy  with the way advisers spoke to him on the phone. Ive listened  to three 
telephone calls between  Mr P and UKI and I havent heard anything  which makes me think  Mr P 
should be awarded any compensation for trouble and upset. I note the advisers asked  questions  to 
Ref: DRN11469903help process  his claim and I understand Mr P was unhappy that his claim had been declined  but, I 
cant say the advisers said anything  unprofessional  during these telephone calls. 
Im aware Mr P says he has cancelled his insurance policy since making his claim, so this meant he 
had an outstanding amount of £120.12 to pay. UKI have confirmed  that it wont be asking him to 
repay this and he only ever paid £10.92 as deposit towards the policy.  
I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr P. But I am not persuaded  from the 
evidence available that UKI has acted unreasonably in its response to his claim.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not intend to uphold  Mr Ps complaint against 
U K Insurance Limited for the reasons  I have  outlined above.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1146990