K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about short-term loans granted  to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender). Mr W says Quick Quid was 
irresponsible to lend to him, that he couldnt afford the loans and fell behind  on his other  
outgoings in order  to repay  these loans. 
background
Quick Quid agreed five loans for Mr W from August 2015 to August  2016. The amounts 
ranged between  £50 and £500  and the loan terms ranged from one to three  months. Some 
of the information the lender provided  is shown in the table below (with figures rounded to 
the nearest pound). 
This includes a monthly estimated disposable income figure or EDI. I dont know  exactly 
how this was calculated  but I understand it incorporated information about  monthly  credit  
commitments from Mr Ws credit file checks.
Repayments (£)
Start RepaidPrincipal 
(£)1 2 3Original 
term 
(days)Monthly 
EDI (£)
103/08/2015 30/10/2015 300 52 54 352 88 748
209/11/2015 31/12/2015 100 18 124 - 52 748
319/01/2016 01/03/2016 50 5 62 - 42 624
4* 06/03/2016 04/08/2016 500 110 612 - 54 748
530/08/2016 27/03/2017 50 12 13 62 93 53
* The original  amount agreed for loan 4 was £100  on the 2nd March 2016 to be repaid in two 
instalments but three further advances or top-ups were  agreed within  a matter of days  (on the 4th, 5th 
and 6th of March) taking the total principal for this loan to £500.
It seems  Mr W had difficulty repaying his fourth loan and was charged  late fees and default 
interest. He set up a number of repayment plans  before eventually managing to repay it.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint  and recommended that Quick  Quid refund 
the interest and charges that he paid from the second time he topped  up his fourth  loan 
(05/03/2016) to the final payment he made on loan 5. 
Mr W didnt respond  to our adjudication. Quick Quid didnt agree with the recommendation 
and so the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that Quick Quid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for any of Mr Ws loans. And, had it done  so, the lender would likely 
have understood  that some of these  loans were not sustainably  affordable  for him because  
Ref: DRN12154292of the amount Mr W spent  on gambling and because he was self-employed  for some of this 
period. These findings were set out in some  detail in a view letter to the lender.
In response to this view,  Quick Quid issued its standard letter  to argue that by the 
1 March 2015, after it became fully authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),  it 
carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments in line with the 
regulators guidance and, because Mr Ws loans were issued after this date, they were not 
irresponsibly lent. It said:
In response  to FOS assessment which recommends  CashEuroNet UK uphold loans which 
were funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that cannot agree to FOS 
recommendations. Please note that in CashEuroNet UKs  initial  response to FOS we 
provided detailed  information indicating why the loan(s) were responsibly  lent to Mr [W]. 
Furthermore, we would like to advise that we are currently  in talks with senior management 
at FOS to amicably resolve this outstanding issue, therefore we kindly  ask that you move 
this case for ombudsman queue for a final decision. 
Quick Quid didnt comment  on our adjudicators  case-specific findings about the 
proportionality of its checks  or the affordability of the loans, nor did it provide any new 
information for me to consider. 
This Service has already  responded  to Quick Quid on this generic argument  directly and 
through earlier final decisions. So I am not going  to address this point here, though I have  
considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind Quick  Quid  at this point of the FCAs guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr Ws complaint and what both parties have said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr W borrowed the loans in question.  Bearing in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect Quick Quid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
Ref: DRN12154293In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer the lending  relationship.
Turning to the specifics of Mr Ws complaint, our adjudicator didnt think the checks  
Quick Quid carried out went  far enough  for any of his loans. Following on from this, they 
found that, had the lender  made  further enquiries  about Mr Ws usual expenses,  specifically 
his housing costs,  and asked him about  any other short-term loans he had outstanding, it 
was likely to have thought that loans 1 to 3 and the initial  borrowing on loan 4 were 
affordable. And our adjudicator found  that Quick Quid didnt lend irresponsibly in these 
instances. 
However, our adjudicator  found when Mr W asked for his second  top-up on his fourth  loan, 
which brought the principal borrowed to £200,  Quick Quid  ought to have been concerned 
about Mr Ws dependency on its loans  and should  have gathered a clearer  picture  of his 
finances at this point. For the same reasons, Quick Quid ought to have done  more when 
Mr W topped up this loan a third time and asked for a fifth loan within a few weeks of 
repaying the previous one. 
Our adjudicator explained this in some  detail in their view, and also explained that had 
Quick Quid sought  a more comprehensive  picture  of Mr Ws finances it would likely have 
learnt that he was spending a large proportion of his income on gambling, and that by loan 5 
his income had decreased as he was now self-employed. Armed with this knowledge, as a 
responsible lender, Quick Quid wouldnt have agreed the two later top-ups on loan 4 or 
loan 5. 
I agree  with this outcome on both loans.  Ive also thought about the loan structure   Mr Ws 
fourth loan was to be repaid in two instalments, as was each further advance. When Mr W 
asked for his second advance on loan 4, I dont think it was reasonable for Quick Quid to 
think that he would have been in a position to carry any surplus  forward to help spread his 
repayments, given  hed asked for further credit  within a few weeks each time he repaid a 
loan, and that this was his third advance within a few days.  
In coming to my decision, I have also considered what Quick Quid  said in its original 
submission to this Service. Ive looked at the estimated disposable figures  it provided,  and 
while I have some concerns about how they have  been calculated,  I dont think  the figures of 
themselves show that Quick Quid did something wrong in agreeing loans 1 to 4 for Mr W. 
However, it ought to have  done more to check that its loans were  sustainable  for him, the 
longer he borrowed  from it. And I note that the estimated disposable income  figure 
Quick Quid calculated for Mr Ws final loan was greatly reduced from the figure it calculated 
five or so months previously.
Quick Quid said Mr [W] showed no signs of dependency or financial difficulty. Had this been  
prevalent or if Mr [W] advised of such, QuickQuid could have offered assistance. The 
lenders own records show that Mr W cancelled payments for his fourth loan and set up a 
number of payment  plans.  I think Quick Quid had seen sufficient signs of difficulty here 
irrespective of whether  or not Mr W specifically raised the issue. 
Ref: DRN12154294In summary,  I agree with our adjudicators recommendation and reasoning.  I think 
Quick Quid didnt carry out proportionate  checks when Mr W applied  for his loans. And, had 
it done so, it would likely have seen that Mr W wouldnt  be able to meet some of his 
repayments sustainably.  And, as a responsible lender, it would not have agreed  to these. 
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
Quick Quid was irresponsible  to lend to Mr W from 5th March  2016 when it agreed the 
second advance  on his fourth  loan. In order to put Mr W back in the position he would have 
been in, Quick Quid should: 
-refund all interest  and charges for Mr Ws loans as agreed from 5th March 2016,  namely  
loan 4 (second top-up  onwards) and loan 5.
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about these from Mr Ws credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint  and direct CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick Quid  to put 
things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1215429