K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Loans 2 Go Limited failed to provide him with sufficient information 
before he agreed  to borrow  from the firm. As a result he says that he was unaware  of the 
cancellation terms of the agreement and has had to pay interest when withdrawing from his 
agreement.
background
Mr J was given a loan of £500 by Loans  2 Go in October 2018. That loan was secured 
against his vehicle. Mr J signed the necessary paperwork for this loan at his home in the 
presence of an agent of Loans 2 Go.
Around 11 days after taking the loan Mr J contacted Loans 2 Go and exercised  his right to 
withdraw from the agreement. In accordance with the terms of that agreement  Loans 2 Go 
provided Mr J with information about the interest he would  need to pay, and advised him that 
the full loan amount plus interest  would  need  to be repaid  within 30 days.
Mr J was unhappy that he was being  charged interest as part of the withdrawal  costs.  So he 
complained to Loans 2 Go. Loans 2 Go didnt agree that it had been wrong to add interest  to 
Mr Js settlement cost.
Mr Js complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  Loans  2 Go 
had done anything wrong either in terms of explaining  the agreement  to Mr J, or in its 
interpretation of what Mr J would  need  to repay to withdraw from the agreement. So she 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld.
Mr J didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr J signed his loan agreement, and other  paperwork relating  to the loan, at his home. He 
was visited by an agent of Loans  2 Go who indicated where Mr J would need to sign and 
took control of the vehicle registration  document and a spare key. Mr J has said that the 
agent didnt explain  the documents that he was being asked to sign or provide him with any 
information about the terms  of the lending.
Loans 2 Go has said that its agent didnt attend Mr Js home  in order  to complete the sale of 
Mr Js loan. It says that the agent  was simply there to ensure that the documents  were 
correctly signed,  witness those signatures, and collect the spare  key and vehicle registration  
document. And I think  what Loans  2 Go has said is entirely reasonable. So I wouldnt expect 
the agent to be in a position to, or be required to, explain the lending  agreement to Mr J.
I accept that the terms relating to the withdrawal from the agreement  are contained within  a 
section of closely worded  text. But I also have  to consider that I think it unlikely, when he 
agreed to the loan,  that Mr J was actively considering withdrawing from it. So even if those 
Ref: DRN14421212terms had been  made  clearer  I doubt  that he would have made  a different decision about 
proceeding with his borrowing.
But the terms do explain that, if the consumer  decided  to withdraw from the loan within the 
first 14 days, he would be able to do so providing  the principal borrowed and any interest 
that had been accrued since the credit was granted were repaid within  30 days. And a little 
more prominently,  in the key financial information  section of the agreement, that withdrawal 
daily interest was detailed as being  £1.83 per day.
Shortly after Mr J gave notice to withdraw  from the agreement, Loans 2 Go took the first 
payment that was due under that agreement. I think it is important to note that until the entire 
balance has been  repaid  under the withdrawal terms the agreement remains  active.  So 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Loans  2 Go to collect  the repayment that was due whilst 
Mr J was considering whether to withdraw from the agreement. That withdrawal decision 
would only be made when the repayment  of the principal  amount and interest had been 
made.
So I dont  agree with Mr J that Loans  2 Go failed to provide him with sufficient information 
before he agreed  to take the loan. And I think the interest that it charged him when he 
withdrew was reasonable and in line with the agreement Mr J signed. I dont think it was 
wrong for Loans  2 Go to continue to collect the scheduled repayment from Mr J before he 
completed his withdrawal from the agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1442121