K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2006 alongside  a credit card. Mr S says Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS)  mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen a copy  
of the application form which shows Mr S selected PPI by ticking  the box to take it. 
He also signed  this form.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he has said about the PPI being 
added automatically,  about being self-employed and his other means  of making  repayments.  
But these  points dont  change my decision.  Ive already set out why I think  Mr S chose to 
take PPI. And while I appreciate that some policies did make  it harder for self-employed 
people to make a successful claim for unemployment, this wasnt  one of those policies. Mr S 
has told us his partner  could have helped meet the repayments if he was unable  to do. But 
this couldnt be guaranteed as circumstances can change and so I think  PPI would still have 
been of use to Mr S.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything   
Mr S paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr S back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt done 
so already.
Ref: DRN18217662my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1821766