K821x#15complaint
Ms W has complained about repairs Fairmead Insurance Limited undertook to the front wall 
of her property after a car drove into it causing damage to brickwork and railings.
background
Ms W notified Fairmead of the damage  in August 2017. The claim was accepted and repairs 
to reinstate the wall began in May 2018.  But they werent completed until December 2018. 
When they were completed Ms W noticed  the gate wouldnt close  and she complained to 
Fairmead.
Fairmead accepted  that the reinstatement  work had taken longer than it should  have done to 
complete. It offered £200  which Ms W accepted. Regarding the gate, it assessed some  
photos of the wall and gate and considered  the work its contractors had undertaken. It said 
Ms W, when  it assessed the damage  in 2017, had told it of a previous impact  at her property 
which had affected  part of the wall and the gate. Fairmead said, on balance, it wasnt  
persuaded the work it had carried out had caused the gate not to close. Ms W complained  to 
this service.
Our investigator felt it was likely  the gate had closed  before the incident.  He said that as it 
had been shown not to close  following Fairmeads  repair of the wall and railings, Fairmead 
should accept  liability and do whatever was needed  to make it close. 
Ms W was satisfied  with that. Fairmead  said it didnt accept it had any liability for the gate not 
closing. But it said it would send  someone out to inspect it to determine  what  the cause of 
the problem was and what was needed  to fix it. 
Our investigator said he wasnt minded to change his view that Fairmead should fix the gate. 
As such the complaint was passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I note Fairmeads recent  offer to assess the gate, I think that has come somewhat late 
in the day. Im not persuaded its fair, given the original claim was 2017,  repairs following 
which were delayed, to put Ms W through  a further  period  of assessment and likely dispute 
following that outcome.  Fairmead knew of Ms Ws dissatisfaction with the repair in 2019,  it 
also knew she was unhappy  with its answer on that issue. That would have been the 
appropriate point  to offer a further  inspection. 
Instead Fairmead provided a final response  disputing liability and told Ms W to come  to this 
service for a determination if she remained unhappy (and/or get her own report).  So it now 
falls to me to make that determination based  on the evidence available.
There are no photos from before the incident.  Ms W doesnt accept what Fairmead  says 
about her telling its inspector there  was a previous collision. None of Fairmeads contractors 
took photos of the gate in a closed position before work started. But I have  seen assessment 
and comment on Fairmeads  internal file about  the work its contractor completed,  and photos  
provided by Ms W, of which there is also reference  to on Fairmeads file.
Ref: DRN16351382Ms W says her photos  show marks in the concrete where, she says,  the wall and gate post 
werent put back in the same position.  Fairmeads  file notes concur  that the post is in a 
different position  and the wall has been re-built differently to how it was before. But 
Fairmeads notes go on to record its operatives  view that as the gap between the latch  on 
the gate and the catch on the post is so large, its unlikely this was caused by its contractors 
failure to re-build the wall and reinstate the iron work as before.  Whilst its possible that is the 
case, it doesnt seem that is clearly and obviously,  most likely correct. That really would have 
been something for an expert, who wasnt involved in completing  the repair, to have 
determined. Fairmead  chose not to do that. 
On this occasion, whilst the evidence of the situation  before the loss is scant, I am satisfied 
that Fairmead fairly and reasonably needs  to resolve  the problem with the gate not closing. 
Ms W noted the problem  soon after its repairs  completed and the evidence  suggests its 
repairs were not completed to reinstate  the wall and iron work  as it was before. Whilst there 
might be other reasons for the problem with the gate, I have no evidence to support the fact 
that something else, other than Fairmeads repair, most  likely  caused the problem. 
I think repairs did take a long time. I note that Fairmead has accepted  that and Ms W agreed 
is proffered remedy of £200 compensation. As such,  I wont comment on this further.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to compete repairs  at Ms Ws 
property to ensure  her gate closes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1635138