K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complains  that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op)  wont  refund them £240 
after a cash machine failed to dispense  this amount to Mr M.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  a joint account with the Co-op. 
On 6 March 2018,  Mr M tried to withdraw £240  from his joint account,  using a cash machine 
owned by another bank, which I will refer to as bank B. He says he didnt receive  the money, 
but this amount was debited from his account.   
Mr M says instead of dispensing the money  hed requested, the cash machine made a 
buzzing sound and pushed out his bank card. Hes also said that the machine displayed  a 
message stating transaction has been cancelled. Mr M then went to another cash machine 
nearby, and checked his account. This showed  hed reached his daily withdrawal limit and 
£240 had been debited  from his account.  
Mr M rang the Co-op and asked it to refund  him £240.The Co-op  credited Mr Ms account 
with £240 whilst it looked into what had happened. It contacted bank B, which provided 
information to show that nothing unusual  had been reported with the machine that day. The 
balance of the machine also suggested that Mr Ms money was dispensed when he 
requested it. So the Co-op re-debited Mr Ms account £240. Mr M wasnt happy with this so 
he brought his complaint to us. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think the Co-op had acted  fairly.  And 
said the evidence  relied on from the owner  of the cash machine wasnt enough  for it to be 
satisfied the machine hadnt made a mistake. She thought it shouldve investigated further 
and that the Co-op should refund Mr M £240. Mr M agreed. The Co-op  disagreed. It said it 
could only act on the findings  of the owner of the cash  machine. And it had followed its 
normal procedures when  investigating Mr Ms claim.  So it hadnt done anything  wrong.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cash  machine that Mr M used  wasnt owned by the Co-op but by bank B. Bank B has 
confirmed there were no problems reported  with the machine before and after the disputed 
transaction. It also said that when the machine balanced there  wasnt a surplus of £240  
(which I would expect to see if the money  hadnt  been dispensed properly).  
Bank B provided Co-op the cash machines ledger for the time of the disputed  withdrawal.  
This doesnt show any problems with the withdrawal and it doesnt  show  the card was 
retained  and this is information that would show on a ledger. I can also see that 
transactions took place just before and after Mr Ms transaction, with the next one being 
three minutes later. And that these appear  to have  gone through.  
Ref: DRN12886302The Co-op says it followed the correct procedure  when investigating Mr Ms claim.  But I 
agree with the investigator it shouldve investigated  his claim further when he didnt accept 
its initial decision. I cant see that it asked bank B whether any other disputes or flags  had 
been raised against the cash machine Mr M used. And I cant  see that it asked bank B 
whether any error messages had been displayed when Mr M had used the cash  machine. I 
appreciate records  show  the cash machine balanced. But its worth  noting Ive not seen any 
evidence that this was checked daily and I dont know what happened  the days before or 
after Mr Ms attempted withdrawal. 
Like Co-op Ive looked  at the likelihood of whether Mr M did get the £240.  Having  done  so, I 
see no reason not to believe  him. I say this because I think his behaviour is consistent with 
what happened. I can also see from looking at Mr and Mrs Ms account statements that its 
not unusual for withdrawals of £240 to made  from the account around the beginning of each 
month. And that £240  was withdrawn  from the account using a cash machine the day after 
the failed transaction, on 7 March 2018,  which I dont think, is different from what  most 
people wouldve done after an unsuccessful  withdrawal. Mr M called the Co-op within  15 
minutes of using the cash machine to report hed not received the money  hed requested. So 
he took steps to sort things out. Ive also kept in mind that Mr M hasnt raised  any other  cash  
machine disputes.  
Once Co-op received the information from bank B which confirmed theyd been no major 
balance discrepancies, they felt there  was nothing else they could do. And that theyd done 
enough as theyd met the guidelines for raising  the dispute with bank B. But for the reasons 
Ive explained,  in this particular case,  I dont agree they did enough. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. And direct 
The Co-operative Bank Plc to do the following to put things right:
pay Mr and Mrs M £240  from the cash machine transaction that went wrong
add 8% annual  simple interest  from 6 March 2018 until the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1288630