K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Nationwide  Building Society handled  her applications 
for personal  loans.
background
Mrs S took out a Nationwide personal  loan in January 2017. In September 2017 she wanted  
to increase the amount  she borrowed. Nationwide agreed to lend her the additional amount 
and it was set up as a new loan. Mrs S says she didnt want to have two loans and took out 
the second loan on the understanding  the two loans would  be merged.
Nationwide then told Mrs S it couldnt merge the loans and she complained about this. 
Nationwide responded to Mrs Ss complaint saying the second  loan had been  approved  at a 
higher interest  rate than the first loan.  It said it had told Mrs S, when she took out the second 
loan, that if she consolidated  the loans the higher  interest rate would apply to the total 
amount shed borrowed under both loans. It said Mrs S had been happy  to have the new 
loan running separately.
However, Nationwide accepted it had given Mrs S incorrect information about whether she 
could pay the total monthly  instalments on both loans to the higher rate loan so it would be 
paid off first. It paid her £125 to compensate her for the impact of this incorrect  information.
Mrs S applied to Nationwide for another loan for in January 2018. This application  was 
approved and she took out a third loan at a higher rate of interest  than either of the previous 
loans. In March  2018  she made an application  to consolidate her existing loans and increase 
her borrowing,  slightly, which was declined.  She complained to Nationwide  saying she had 
used Nationwides  online  personal  loan calculator before she made the application.  It had 
indicated she would  be able to consolidate  her existing  loans but pay less interest overall.
Nationwide upheld Mrs Ss complaint, but only to the extent that it hadnt clearly explained 
the reason it had declined  Mrs Ss latest  application.  It paid her £50 compensation for this.
Mrs S made another application to consolidate the loans  in June 2018 which was also 
declined. She then referred  her complaints to this service. She says shes had to take out 
loans with another provider and has incurred additional costs because  of this.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaints should be upheld. She thought 
Nationwide was entitled to make commercial  decisions about how much credit  it would  make  
available to a customer. She also thought it had dealt  with Mrs Ss complaints fairly.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation. She says Nationwide has now 
offered her a new loan to consolidate  her existing loans. She thinks  this shows  it didnt  
process her previous  applications correctly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN15978382I should start by saying  Nationwide is entitled  to make commercial decisions about  how 
much its prepared to lend to its customers and at what rates  of interest.  I wouldnt normally  
interfere with these  decisions unless I thought a customer was being treated unfairly. If a 
customer is told how much Nationwide is willing to lend, over what period and at what  rate of 
interest they can then make an informed decision whether to take out the loan.
Im satisfied that, when  Mrs S took out the additional loan in September  2017, Nationwide 
explained to her that she would have to pay a higher rate of interest  on her existing 
borrowing if she wanted to consolidate the loans. Mrs S signed  an agreement  for the new 
loan setting out all its terms.  So it seems she understood what  she was told and agreed to 
take out a separate  loan.
Nationwide has accepted it gave Mrs S some  incorrect information about  repaying the higher 
rate loan early  by paying the instalments for both loans to the higher rate loan. This will have 
caused her some trouble and upset but Im satisfied  the sum of £125  Nationwides paid is 
reasonable compensation for this. Mrs S hasnt  said she wouldnt have taken out the loan if 
she hadnt been given the incorrect information.  I havent seen any evidence  that she would 
have been able to borrow the money  from another provider at a lower  rate of interest.  So I 
think its more likely  than not Mrs S would still have borrowed the additional money from 
Nationwide even if shed  known she couldnt repay the second  loan early.
Mrs S has referred to incorrect information she says she was given by Nationwide  about the 
reasons why her applications in March and June 2018 were  declined. She says she was told 
it was because of the way Nationwide calculates the total amount  its willing to lend to a 
customer by way of personal loans.
I dont think the above  is completely correct. Nationwide gives an indication  on its website 
regarding the maximum it will lend on personal  loans. But it assesses each application 
according to its internal  lending criteria  which  includes the maximum total amount its willing 
to lend to individual customers. I dont  think I could reasonably require Nationwide  to 
disclose its lending criteria because this information  is commercially sensitive.
Mrs S suffered  some  trouble and upset as a result  of being  given unclear information about 
why her applications had been  declined. I think the sum of £50 Nationwide has already paid 
her is reasonable compensation  for this.
Ive considered Mrs Ss comments  that she completed Nationwides personal loan calculator 
before she made the applications and it indicated they would be approved. Im satisfied it 
was reasonably clear  that the calculator was only a guide and the applications would be 
subject to further underwriting so there was no guarantee  theyd be approved.
Ive also considered Mrs Ss comments that she had to take out a loan with another provider 
and incurred fees because of this. But that was her decision. Im not persuaded I could 
reasonably hold Nationwide responsible for fees and interest Mrs S has paid to another  
lender.
Im pleased to note that Nationwide  has now approved Mrs Ss latest application. But Im not 
persuaded I could  reasonably decide  that this means its refusal  to approve her previous 
applications was unfair.
Ref: DRN15978383my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1597838