K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that IG Markets Limited  did not fully honour an agreement (in June 2018) 
to apply a 40% spread discount  to his trading positions  he says the discount was applied  
only to the opening part of the positions  and not to the closing part.
background
IG did not uphold  Mr Hs complaint, but it offered him a goodwill payment of £100. 
Mr H has cited  IGs definition of spread  on its website  in support of his contention that 
he expected the agreed  discount  to apply to the entire bid/offer spread  for the positions   
applicable to the opening and closing of the positions. IG disagrees and says the website 
definition is generic and simple  for the purpose of informing less experienced traders, but   
Mr H was an experienced trader who ought to have understood that the discount  applied 
only to the opening part of the positions.  In its final response to the complaint it said the 
arrangement was explained in a detailed way to Mr H during a telephone conversation on 
18th June  2018.
One of our adjudicators considered the matter  and agreed with Mr H. He said he had 
listened to the telephone conversation that was mentioned and that the discount to the 
spread was mentioned a number of times  without qualification that it applied  only to the 
opening leg of the positions.  The adjudicator  concluded that Mr H should be compensated 
for the discount  that was not applied to the closing leg of his positions.
IG disagreed with this outcome. It appreciated that there could have been confusion with the 
matter but it insisted that Mr H ought  to have understood that the discount  that was agreed 
related only to the spread  between the mid-price and either the bid or offer price  not to the 
entire bid/offer spread  as he asserts.  The matter  was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion given by the adjudicator. Mr Hs complaint is upheld and his compensation is the 
value of the part of the full 40% spread  discount, for his positions, which  IG did not honour.
In addition to the telephone call recording,  Mr H has also referred to emails  from IG to him 
dated 15 and 19 June 2018.  I consider as follows:
The background of the matter features a roll-over of Mr Hs positions and the 
complaint is about Mr Hs assertion that a 40% discount on the full spread for the 
new positions was agreed but was only partly honoured  that is, honoured only for 
the opening parts of the positions.
Telephone recording evidence and both emails mentioned above confirm  that part of 
the agreement  was to close the previous positions  at zero spread. This does not 
appear to be in dispute.
The email, from IG to Mr H, of 19 June summarises the arrangement  as one in which  
the previous positions  would be closed and then rolled over into December 2018 
positions  seemingly as a formality  and that on the following day (20 June)  the 
Ref: DRN14912322December positions  would be deleted and transferred into March  2019 positions. The 
email includes the sentence  We will roll your positions into March with a 40% 
discount on the spread.
As the adjudicator said, the telephone recording evidence features repeated 
references to 40% discount on the spread  and/or words to that effect  but at no 
point does IG clarify that the offer relates  only to the opening part of the positions. It 
is also noteworthy that, as Mr H has argued, there  is nothing  in IGs website definition 
of spread that supports the altered definition it presently seeks to argue. I do not 
consider it plausible that its website definition applied only to some of its customers 
but not to others   the website  definition does not say this. Mr Hs comments during  
the call sufficiently conveyed to IG that he understood the offer to relate to the entire 
spread and to the positions  as a whole  not to only part of the spread or part of the 
positions. He can be heard deliberating the offer and making comparisons with 
discounted spread  offers he had been given by other (competitor)  firms.  IG can be 
heard assuring  him that its offer is likely  to be the best spread discount offer he could  
get in the market.  On balance, I am satisfied that, during the telephone conversation, 
Mr H was led into the agreement on the understanding that the discount  offered by 
IG applied to the entire spread  and to his rolled  over positions as a whole.
I have considered the correspondence between the parties   partly about the 
complaint issue  over July and August last year,  when  Mr H queried why the 
discount had not been applied as he expected. I have taken on board IGs arguments  
in this correspondence, which broadly reflects the same position  it has presented to 
this service. I consider  that its arguments appear to be mainly based on hindsight 
and that, on balance, they do not reflect what was agreed with Mr H  according to 
evidence from the time of the agreement. I am persuaded that what was agreed with 
Mr H is as stated  in the paragraph above and that it is fair and reasonable for IG to 
honour that agreement.
IG must  honour the agreement with Mr H to apply the full 40% discount to the entire 
spread for the whole of the relevant positions  (opening and closing) which  were rolled 
over to March 2019. Evidence suggests that the discount has already been applied  to 
the opening part of the positions   if not, this must be redressed  and that it was not 
applied to the closing part of the positions,  so redress to Mr H is the monetary value 
of discount for the closing part of the positions.  I consider  that IGs goodwill offer of 
£100 to Mr H is a reasonable amount to cater for the trouble  and upset the matter 
has caused him. Its final response  letter in September 2018 says this amount was to 
be transferred to his account within 24 hours   if that was not done, the payment 
should be made to him in addition to redress for this complaint. Interest, at the rate of 
8% simple per year, applies to the total redress due to Mr H from the date of this 
decision to date of settlement  if compensation is not paid to him within  28 days  of IG 
being notified of his acceptance of this decision. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest awarded.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I order IG Markets Limited to pay 
him redress as stated above and to provide him with a calculation  of the compensation 
amount in a clear and simple format.
Ref: DRN14912323Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1491232