K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
Ms D took out PPI with her mortgage  in 1995, and she took out additional PPI to cover a 
further advance  taken out in 2001.  The PPI covered her for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  find there  was enough evidence to uphold Ms Ds mis-sale complaint. 
Ms D disagrees. She mainly told us that although  PPI was recommended to her she wasnt  
aware it had been  applied  to her account and she didnt  know it was optional  and couldve 
been refused.  
Shes unhappy that shes paid for something she says she never asked for and didnt need. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ds complaint. Heres why I say this.
Looking at the information that I've seen and been told about the PPI sold to Ms D in 1995 
and 2001, I think  Lloyds made Ms D aware each  time that she had a choice about having  the 
PPI it recommended to her. And, despite what Ms D remembers  now,  when she signed up 
for these  policies she made an informed decision each  time to take out the cover.  
what happened  in 1995
Lloyds couldnt  provide  any paperwork to show how Ms D had taken out the policy. But this 
isnt a reason  for me to uphold the complaint.  Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale 
happened, that some paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt reasonably expect the bank or 
Ms D to have kept all of this. 
And I cant know exactly what  was said when Ms D arranged her mortgage. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  her to recall exactly what was discussed at the time. This means that 
what Ms D says now isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint.
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what  happened I have to 
look at everything and decide  what I think is most likely. In order  to uphold Ms Ds complaint 
Id have to find that its likely that she wasnt given  a fair choice about PPI or that it was 
added to her account without her proper consent.  But I cant fairly say this based on the 
limited information Ive got. 
Ref: DRN18849732Theres nothing mentioned on Ms Ds mortgage application which  suggests  that PPI was a 
requirement of getting the mortgage. Also, she wouldve had to sign a separate PPI 
application to have the cover added on. And I can see why Ms D mightve wanted PPI. Her 
mortgage was a significant  financial commitment  and her home couldve been at risk if she 
hadnt been able to make her mortgage  monthly  repayments in full and on time. So I can 
understand that protecting her repayments  wouldve  been an important  consideration for her. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Ms D decided she wanted  to have the benefits the 
policy offered and it was added  to her mortgage account when she requested  this.
Because its not clear how the PPI was sold, Ive looked at this complaint on the basis  that 
Lloyds mightve recommended PPI to Ms D. So it shouldve taken reasonable steps  to make 
sure the cover was suitable as well as giving her important policy information in a clear way.
Ms D told us that in the event of sickness she wouldve received full pay from her employer 
at the time for 6 months. But this doesnt  mean  that the PPI wasnt  suitable for her 
Ms D was eligible for the policy.  It wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months  on top of her 
work benefits each  time she made a successful claim. The amount paid to her wouldve 
more than covered  her mortgage monthly  repayments as it also included some  extra  to help 
with other  costs.  
I think this couldve been useful if Ms D wasnt able to work as she mightve  had other 
expenses to meet as a result of being sick or disabled.  And she couldve made repeated  
claims so she wouldve had long term cover for her mortgage. 
The policy wouldve also paid out if shed  lost her job. 
Ms D told us she had no other  means to rely on to make her monthly repayments. So, given  
her situation  and the serious problems that can happen when mortgage payments arent 
paid in full and on time, I think  PPI was suitable  for her. 
Some information Lloyds gave Ms D about the PPI possibly wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. There were some  things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like this wouldve 
affected Ms D. So I dont think its likely that being told information about things the policy  
didnt cover wouldve  put her off taking it out. 
I dont know if Lloyds  gave Ms D clear information  about all aspects of the PPI costs.  But she 
chose to sign up for the cover when she didnt have  to  so she appears  to have wanted it. 
And the PPI seems to have been  affordable for her. Overall, I think it unlikely Ms D wouldve  
made a different decision in 1995 if Lloyds  had given  her better information.  
what happened  in 2001
The paperwork Ive seen  from 2001 suggests  that when Ms D took out a further  advance  on 
her mortgage account Lloyds  made  her aware  that PPI was an optional  feature. 
There were options on the mortgage  application  to say if she wished to apply for the cover 
so I think Ms D wouldve  seen that she could choose if she wanted PPI. Shes ticked the 
option to say I wish to apply for  cover  on the mortgage application she signed.  And the 
other option she couldve ticked instead  if she wasnt  interested in having the cover, which  is 
clearly shown on the form, is left blank.  So what Ms D says isnt enough on its own for me to 
be able to say that Lloyds  didnt make her aware of the PPI or that it was optional. 
Ref: DRN18849733Ms D has signed the completed application  to confirm that she agreed  with what it says on it. 
Based on the information Ive seen I find that Ms D chose to have PPI, knowing she couldve 
declined the cover if she hadnt  wanted  it.
By 2001, Ms Ds circumstances had changed. She was working for a new employer where  
she wasnt entitled to any sick pay  apart  from statutory  sick pay. And she told us she had 
no significant other means to rely on if she wasnt working.
The new policy  more than covered the additional  borrowing shed  taken out and provided 
Ms D with the same long term protection she already had for her original  mortgage.  Ms D 
paid extra for the additional cover but theres nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  for her. 
She continued to be able to take advantage of all the benefits the policy  offered. So I think  
PPI was a suitable recommendation  for Ms D in 2001.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Ms D some of the commission she paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and new rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types  of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Ms Ds mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund 
any of the commission  Ms D paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
Its understandable  that Ms D mightve forgotten some details from sales  that took place so 
long ago. But, based on all the information  Ive seen,  I dont find shes  lost out as a result  of 
anything that Lloyds mightve done wrong  when it sold her PPI. This means it doesnt need 
to take any steps  to put things right. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1884973