K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  alongside 
their mortgage. Landmark Mortgages Limited has agreed to take responsibility for the sale of 
this policy. For ease  of reference Ill refer to Landmark Mortgages  as having sold the 
mortgage and PPI in the rest of this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs O took out a mortgage through Landmark Mortgage Limited in 1994.  PPI was 
added around  a year later. The policy covered Mr O only for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O didnt accept  our adjudicators  
view. Mr O said he was self-employed at the time the policy  was sold, so the policy 
wasnt suitable. They also said they were told they had to take PPI because of their 
credit scores.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general  approach to 
complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed  it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Os mortgage  application.  They didnt opt to take PPI when they first 
took out their mortgage. So, I think they wouldve understood from this PPI was optional. 
And if they had poor credit scores, they got the mortgage without the need for PPI. Around 
a year later, PPI was added. Its not clear  exactly how the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs O, 
but as they already had their mortgage  by then,  I think it was probably added because  they 
said they wanted it.
Landmark Mortgages didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs O, so it didnt have to 
consider whether PPI was suitable for them. But, it did have to give them  information  that 
was clear, fair and not misleading about the PPI so that they could  make  an informed choice 
about whether  it was right for them and they wanted to buy it. If there  was a problem with 
the sale, then I need to consider whether I think Mr and Mrs O have lost out because  of that.
Mrs O wasnt  covered  under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage Ive taken into 
account her circumstances too when deciding if the policy was right for them.
I cant see that this policy  was inappropriate for Mr and Mrs O. Ill explain  why.
 Mr O appeared eligible to take out PPI given his circumstances. Mrs O was 
working too, but I havent been  told anything to make me think  it inappropriate for 
the cover  to be in Mr Os name only.
 Mr O initially  told us he was in employed  at the time he took out PPI. He was 
employed when  he took out the mortgage the year before. Hes later told us that 
he was self-employed.  But, even  if Mr O was self-employed the policy  wouldve 
still covered him and it was no more difficult to make a claim. He wouldve been 
Ref: DRN11798962eligible to get his mortgage repayments paid if he was unemployed or was off 
due to accident and sickness for up to 12 months per successful  claim.  If Mr O 
was self-employed  he wouldnt  have got any work related benefits from an 
employer so the PPI couldve  been  even more useful to him. So, I think PPI 
couldve provided Mr and Mrs O with a valuable benefit to protect their home. 
They said they had around £2,000 in savings. PPI wouldve allowed them  to 
keep hold of their savings to meet other household expenses at what might have 
been a difficult  time financially for them if Mr O had no other income. 
 I cant see that Mr O wouldve been  affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover at the time they took out the policy, so I dont think  having  
better information about these things wouldve made any difference to their 
decision to take out PPI. Mr O likely  couldve benefitted from everything the 
policy offered.
 The premium was paid monthly so they couldve cancelled PPI at any time 
without losing out financially. They didnt have to pay interest  on the premiums. I 
cant see that the policy was unaffordable.
So, I cant see that Mr and Mrs O have lost out because of anything  that Landmark  
Mortgages couldve done better. I think they wouldve likely still taken out the policy 
because of the protection it afforded them and it appeared appropriate for their needs.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O 
to accept or reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1179896