K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Society of Lloyds  hasnt dealt with a claim on his motor insurance 
policy properly. 
Any reference to Lloyds includes its agents.  
background
Mr Rs van was damaged  in an accident  in April 2017. Mr R contacted  his broker initially  to 
notify them and was directed to a claims management company. 
Mr R eventually got in contact with Lloyds in July 2017  having decided not to continue  
using the claims management  company. Mr R didnt want to make a claim on his insurance  
at this time.  
Mr R contacted Lloyds  a number of times between July 2017 and February 2018, to find out 
what was happening.  Each time Lloyds told him theyd  been in contact with the third partys 
insurer but that there was no admission of liability.
In February 2018,  Mr R decided that he would make a claim under his insurance policy  in 
order to get the repairs  done. But by this time Mr Rs policy had lapsed, and Lloyds said it 
couldnt provide  him with a courtesy vehicle because he was no longer insured with them. 
Mr Rs unhappy that, to date, his van hasnt  been  repaired and Lloyds is saying they cant 
provide a courtesy vehicle while the repairs are carried  out. Mr R doesnt want  to have the 
repairs done unless  a courtesy vehicle  is provided, because he wont  be able to work. 
Lloyds said the delays been  caused   and the repairs not completed - because Mr R didnt 
want to make a claim under his insurance policy,  so they havent been able to pursue the 
third party as theres been no outlay.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and thought it should  be upheld. He said, in 
summary, that he thought Lloyds shouldve advised  Mr R to make a claim much  earlier  than 
they eventually  did under than his insurance policy.  He recommended  that Lloyds arrange  
for the repairs to be carried out now, arrange  for a courtesy vehicle to be provided  while  the 
repairs were being  carried out and pay Mr R £100  for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr R accepted the investigators findings.  But Lloyds didnt, they provided further call 
recordings to show that Mr R had been  correctly advised. The investigator reviewed these 
calls but didnt think it changed his view, and explained  this to Lloyds. Lloyds did not 
respond. As Lloyds didnt respond, the complaints been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
I know Mr R is particularly upset with the information  given to him when he reported the 
incident to his broker. But I dont think Lloyds is responsible for what the broker told him  or 
for the time between when Mr R first reported the damage to his van to his broker  and when 
Ref: DRN11242672he first got in touch  with them  on 24 July 2017. During this period Lloyds had noted the 
claim as information only,  because the claims  management company had told them they 
were dealing with it, which  is what Id expect. So I dont think  they can reasonably  be held 
responsible for the fact that nothing happened  between the date of the accident  and the 24 
July 2017. 
Ive listened to the call when Mr R first spoke to Lloyds on 24 July 2017. Mr R explained  to 
the advisor that hed been told he had to use the claims management company  and that 
he wasnt happy with the brokers advice. The discussion moved on to the accident itself. 
Mr R was correctly told during this call, that until the third party admitted liability,  the excess 
would be payable. Mr R said he was concerned about this and also losing his no claims 
bonus. So he didnt  want to make a claim on his own insurance at this time, so Lloyds 
agreed theyd contact the third party to say he held them responsible. Which I can see that 
Lloyds did in a letter dated the same day. 
Mr R then contacted  Lloyds again  on 24 August 2017 to request an update.  He was told that 
Lloyds hadnt  received  an admission  of liability from the third party   but that Lloyds still 
believe its clear the third party was at fault.  At no point during this conversation does the 
advisor explain that it was unlikely that the third party would admit liability  without an outlay. 
The first time Mr R is told thered need to be a claim  before the third party was likely to agree 
liability is October 2017. He says in the call that takes place in October that hes been 
advised not to make  a claim until the third party has admitted liability  I dont agree he was 
ever directly  advised this by Lloyds having listened to the calls.  But, Lloyds didnt make it 
clear that by not making a claim,  this was slowing the process because the third party wasnt  
likely to accept liability. And I think its clear from their internal emails that Lloyds suspect 
that this is what held things up. 
Having considered the content of these  calls, I agree with the investigator  that if Mr R had 
been told that it was unlikely  that the third party would admit liability  without a claim or an 
outlay (so a cost to Mr Rs insurer)   then I think Mr R wouldve gone ahead with the claim 
much earlier than he ended up doing.  Its clear from the internal  emails about the claim that 
Lloyds thought this was the position  but at no point prior to October did they tell Mr R this.
Overall I think  theres been a misunderstanding   Lloyds believed that Mr R didnt  want to 
claim (which  was true  hed said in the calls that he didnt  want  to have to pay the excess  
and the claim go against him). And Mr R thought he had made some sort of claim, albeit 
not on his own insurance  so he was expecting Lloyds were  doing something.  Which  was 
also largely true, because  Lloyds had contacted the third party  about the incident. 
In the context of their relationship with Mr R though, Lloyds were the experts. So I think if 
theyd explained  more clearly what the impact of not arranging  the repairs and making  a 
claim straight away would  be, I still think Mr R might not have agreed to do this straight away  
but he might  have done it earlier than February 2018. So I think  Lloyds made a mistake by 
not doing so. 
In February 2018,  Mr R agreed to use an approved repairer. And Lloyds  attempted to 
arrange the repairs. But because by this time Mr Rs policy had lapsed  (it had lapsed  in 
September 2017)  a courtesy van couldnt be provided  under  his insurance. So Mr R didnt 
want to have the repairs carried out as he wouldnt be able to work if he didnt have  a 
courtesy van. I dont  think this is an unreasonable position for Mr R to take and the policy 
provided cover for a courtesy vehicle  so I think he was entitled to expect that one would be 
Ref: DRN11242673provided while his van was being  repaired.  Theres no dispute that Lloyds still has to repair 
Mr Rs van but I think  they do still need to provide a courtesy van to him while the repairs  are 
carried out  because of the way the claims been  handled. 
As Ive found that Lloyds shouldve given Mr R clearer information, and had they done so, 
he would  most likely have  agreed to the repairs earlier  I think  Lloyds have contributed  to 
the delay in the repairs taking place and this has caused Mr R inconvenience. Ive thought 
about the length of time thats passed since the incident took place and that the repairs  still 
havent been carried out and Lloyds contribution to that delay  and I think  £100 fairly 
reflects this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint. 
To put things right, I require Society of Lloyds  to:
arrange for the repair of Mr Rs van.
provide him with a courtesy/hire  van while the repairs  are carried out. 
pay Mr R £100 in recognition of inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1124267