K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Neither side have  the original documents from the sale.  I think thats understandable 
given just how long ago it was, and since under data protection  rules Halifax were 
required to dispose of Mrs Ps data rather than hold onto it for too long. But from what 
weve seen of Halifaxs sales  process  from the time,  they wouldve given Mrs P the choice 
to have PPI or not, and she wouldve only got the policy  if shed actively chosen it. Ive not 
seen any evidence  which  shows  that Halifax misled  Mrs P into buying PPI, nor any wider  
problems with their sales process from the time. So I think its most likely that Halifax 
made it clear Mrs P didnt  have  to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though 
I can understand if she no longer remembers this after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs P, so they had to check  that the policy  was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, it looks like Mrs P was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.  The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her existing benefits 
and offered her more  comprehensive cover. And it meant  that if she was off sick or lost 
her job she wouldnt have  to ask anyone else to pay for her credit  card,  which was in her 
sole name. So it looks like the policy couldve  been useful for Mrs P  as it was when she 
successfully claimed  on it in 2010.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as I said above,  it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it could have been  useful for Mrs P if something 
went wrong. And the policy  was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mrs P could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better  information about  the PPI would  
have put her off taking  it out. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs P paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs P back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs P. I dont think  Halifax need to do 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN19147442My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1914744