K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains that Alliance Trust Savings  Limited  (trading as Stocktrade)  have made a
late request for an overpayment to be repaid.
background 
When Mrs Ws investment  matured,  she received  a final redemption  figure  of £38, 280.
These proceeds were  sent to Mrs W on 5 June 2017. Stocktrade were informed on 8 June
2017 that there had been a mistake in the payment as the registrar calculated  the maturity  at 
127.55% instead  of 72.45%.
Stocktrade reimbursed the registrar  for this overpayment in January 2018, but didnt  contact
Mrs W until May 2018 asking for the overpayment of £16, 529.22  to be repaid.
Mrs W says that it is unfair to ask for funds to be repaid given the delay of over one year.
Mrs W says that during that year she had gifted some money and purchased  a new house.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought that Stocktrade should have 
approached Mrs W when  they were first aware of the error. As there had been a delay  of 
around one year, it wasnt unreasonable for Mrs W to believe  that she was entitled to the 
payment she had received. He thought it was fair and reasonable to ask Stocktrade to write-
off half of the overpayment,  leaving Mrs W with £8, 2641.61 to pay.
Stocktrade agree that an award  for trouble and upset is appropriate but disagree that it is fair 
and reasonable to write-off £8, 264.61.
I wrote  a provisional decision in May, in which I considered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint 
and said:
There is a large measure of factual  agreement in this matter. Its agreed that an 
overpayment was made and its agreed  that Stocktrade didnt  approach Mrs W about  this 
until May 2018, almost  one year after they were  aware that an error had been made.
So I agree that things  went wrong  here. Stocktrade  havent been able to explain why it took 
them so long to contact Mrs W.
The issue  in this complaint is how to put things right. Had the correct  calculations been made 
at the time, Mrs W would have received £16, 529.22 less and I agree that it would have been 
reasonable for Mrs W to repay the overpayment had she been asked to do so straight away.
I have therefore  looked to see what impact  the delay has had on Mrs Ws ability  to repay the 
overpayment.
I have taken into account that the request for repayment  was made at a difficult personal 
time for Mrs W. I have also noted her comments that she had gifted some of the funds  and 
used them towards a house purchase.  But Im satisfied, from the evidence  provided, that
Mrs W was in a position  to repay the funds when  requested in May 2018.  I havent seen any 
documentary evidence  to show  that making the repayment would have caused any financial 
difficulty. So I dont  agree that it is fair and reasonable to write  off half the overpayment, in 
my view that puts Mrs W in a better positon  than she would otherwise have been in.
Ref: DRN13730902I consider that it is fair and reasonable for Mrs W to repay the full amount  of £16, 529.22  
within a reasonable timeframe.
I accept that this late request for overpayment caused Mrs W upset. I dont underestimate 
her strength  of feeling about  this matter and its understandable that it came  as a shock.  
Mrs W says that her trust in financial  institutions  has been undermined.
Its helpful to explain  that our service doesnt  have  any regulatory or disciplinary role, which 
means we have no power to punish a business  for any errors they might have made. We 
provide an informal  dispute resolution  service, where we make an impartial  decision about  
what is a fair and reasonable outcome in each case.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that a substantial trouble and upset award is 
appropriate here given the duration  of delay and the impact  upon Mrs W at a time when she 
was suffering personal difficulties. I consider that an award is £1, 000 is fair and reasonable.
The parties have  now received the decision. Stocktrade accept the decision and have  
suggested reducing the balance payable by Mrs W by £1, 000. 
Mrs W disagrees with the decision. Due to the complex nature of the investment and the lack 
of accompanying  account as to the amount paid, Mrs W says she had no way of knowing 
that the sum was more than might  have been due. Further, Mrs Ws representative highlights  
that Stocktrades written  correspondence was aggressive and threatening. Mrs W says she 
feels thoroughly and totally let down by the way the Stocktrade dealt with the matter.
I have reviewed everything in order to give a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the comments made  by and on behalf of Mrs W. It isnt disputed 
that errors  were made and I agree this matter  was not handled well by Stocktrade. It is clear  
that Mrs W was unaware of the mistake until she was told about it. I fully appreciate  that the 
whole scenario has caused Mrs W a great deal of distress and upset.  Mrs W has 
consistently explained how this matter has made her feel and Im grateful for her honesty.
But I have to take into account  that the overpayment was made  to Mrs W in error and she 
wasnt entitled to it. So it isnt unreasonable for Stocktrade to ask for the overpayment to be 
repaid and Im satisfied,  on the basis of the information provided, that repaying the funds is 
unlikely to place  Mrs W in any financial difficulty.
I agree  that it is fair and reasonable to compensate  Mrs W for the distress she has suffered. 
Ive thought carefully about everything before  reaching  my final decision. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs W but it remains  my view that £1, 000 is a fair and reasonable award for 
distress and inconvenience in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13730903my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint  in part. Mrs W should  repay  £16,529.22  
within a reasonable timeframe  and Alliance Trust Savings Limited should pay Mrs W £1, 000 
for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1373090