K820x#14complaint
Mr A brings this complaint on behalf of his business, which  I will refer to as F. 
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank Plc has unfairly registered an alert under the Visa 
Merchant Alert Service (VMAS) and the Mastercard Member Alert to control High Risk 
service (MATCH).  
Mr A also complains that Barclays closed Fs account and wont release money which  was in 
the account when it was closed. Mr A wants Barclays to remove  the markers and pay him 
compensation.
background
In July 2016, Mr A opened a merchant services  account with Barclays. The account enabled 
him to take debit  and credit card payments  from his customers. At the time of opening the 
account Mr A told Barclays the average transaction value for customer  sales  hed be taking 
would be £25 and all card transactions would be authorised by chip and PIN. 
In December 2017, Barclays conducted a review of Fs account and found that between 13 
and 24 November 2017 it had processed  about £2,500 of card not present sales using  
different cards.  And that the cards  had been  used  without the authority of the cardholders.
Following the review Barclays decided to terminate its agreement  with Mr A immediately. 
And when  Mr A queried this, he was told that due to fraudulent claims made against 
payments Barclays was entitled to take such action.
Barclays also told Mr A it was obliged to register an alert with the VMAS and MATCH  
although this was not to be seen as a blacklisting  tool. And the markers shouldnt prevent 
Mr A from trading using  other card facilities. Barclays also blocked  Mr As access to the 
remaining funds in Fs account  pending any further  disputes being raised against card 
payments.  
Mr A complained to Barclays.  In response Barclays reviewed its decision and asked Mr A to 
provide information  to show that he wasnt aware  the disputed  transactions  were  fraudulent.  
Mr A didnt provide  any information to Barclays. So Barclays didnt  remove the markers and 
reopen Fs account.
Unhappy with this outcome  Mr A brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr As complaint. He said Barclays had acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement.  And it hadnt done anything wrong when it 
notified VMAS  and MATCH. Mr A disagreed. He said he hadnt acted fraudulently so 
Barclays shouldnt have  closed Fs account. And hes still unhappy that Barclays  havent 
released the money in Fs account to him. As no agreement could be reached the matter has 
come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14614522It seems  to me that it is not the legality of Barclays decision which  Mr A is challenging  but 
more the reasonableness. He says that it has not taken into account that Mr A hasnt done  
anything wrong  himself and has not acted fairly when  it made  the notification to VMAS and 
MATCH. Mr A says Barclays can only close Fs account if it can show  Mr A has committed  
fraud. 
So that all parties  are clear, I accept  that under the terms and conditions  of the contract  
between Barclays and F, the former is entitled, in certain circumstances, to withdraw its 
services without notice, withhold funds and register a merchant with the VMAS and MATCH.
Mr A submits that he hasnt  done  anything wrong  and wasnt  aware the transactions were 
fraudulent. He feels that the alerts on VMAS  and MATCH have prevented  him from obtaining  
card services elsewhere. And as a result  he says he has lost business. 
Im afraid I have to tell Mr A that I cannot tell Barclays how it should  enforce the terms of its 
contract. Commercial decisions  such as these are not something which this service  would 
normally interfere with. 
Mr A says he himself hasnt done anything wrong.  That may well be the case. But section 
18.1 of the terms of the agreement states Barclays may suspend or end its agreement  if it 
becomes aware  of, or reasonably suspect fraud. It does not stipulate who Barclays needs  
to suspect of fraud. 
Barclays were  notified  that a number of transactions F processed were fraudulent. And I can 
see that Barclays gave  Mr A an opportunity to provide invoices and proof  of these sales.  But 
Mr A didnt supply any information.  So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think  
Barclays treated Mr A unfairly when it decided to close Fs account and registered  the 
markers.  
I know Mr A says that finding  an alternative  supplier has proved difficult but the alert with 
VMAS and MATCH have to be registered and I cannot fairly ask Barclays  to remove them.
In relation to the withheld funds, I know our investigator has advised Mr A to contact 
Barclays about releasing these. I cannot add anything further to that advice.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
1 November 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1461452