K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) declined  a cash withdrawal 
on his Barclaycard while he was on holiday. 
background
Mr K has a Barclaycard. He says he took this out because he was attracted by the ability to 
withdraw cash abroad without incurring charges. The card has a cash  limit of £900. 
Last year Mr K went  on holiday. While  abroad  he made a number of cash  withdrawals using 
his card and paid money on to it to maintain his available balance.  In particular Mr K 
withdrew around £271 on 17 August.  He says he made a payment to his card of around 
£278 the following day which his statement shows was received  on 20 August. 
Mr K withdrew around £466 on 26 August. He tried to withdraw further amounts the following 
day. But these  were declined by Barclays. He was able to withdraw around £110 but other  
withdrawals were declined. 
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays had done  anything wrong. She noted  the withdrawal 
Mr K made on 17 August didnt appear  on his statement until 21 August. So when Barclays  
received his payment on 20 August he didnt have any outstanding  cash  transactions to 
repay. As a result the payment he made was applied to his purchases balance.  
When the cash withdrawal subsequently debited  his account it reduced the available cash  
balance from £900 to around  £628.  That meant  Mr K was able to withdraw £466 but the 
further withdrawals he then tried to make would have taken him over his cash  limit. So she 
thought Barclays  acted correctly in declining  these. 
She also noted that when Mr K got in touch with Barclays on 31 August it reallocated  the 
payments hed made to his account  to restore his cash balance.  She didnt  think  Barclays 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr K didnt agree. He didnt understand how the dates of transactions  in his statement had 
been cleared at different  times to the ones published. He provided his own spreadsheet 
showing when withdrawals and payments  had been made and said there was no time lapse 
between these. And he highlighted the stress  this caused when he was on holiday which 
meant he had to borrow money  from a family member.  So I need to reach  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr K has found this a stressful experience and I was sorry to hear about  the 
impact it had on his holiday.  But I dont think Barclays has done  anything wrong .Ive looked 
at the terms and conditions of his account  and I can see these do give Barclays  the right to 
refuse a transaction if theres risk it might take someone over either  their credit or cash limit. 
I also note that under  the terms where  payments are made Barclays  will allocate these to 
balances charged  at the highest interest  rate first. 
Ref: DRN10028502In this case Mr K withdrew money  on 17 August. I appreciate he intended  the payment he 
made the following day to repay that amount. But that payment reached his account before 
the cash withdrawal  debited it. And at that point  there was no outstanding cash  balance  on 
his account .So I think Barclays acted in line with the terms and conditions in allocating that 
payment to reduce the purchases balance, which created  a small credit on this account.  
When the cash withdrawal subsequently debited  the account on 21 August that was 
correctly deducted  from the cash balance reducing the amount Mr K had available  to spend.  
The withdrawals Mr K then tried to make  would have taken him over his remaining cash  limit. 
So in line with the terms and conditions of his account Barclays was entitled to decline these. 
I dont think its done anything wrong here. 
Ive also listened  to a phone call Mr K had with Barclays before going on holiday. I note there 
was some discussion at that point  over the time it might take for transactions to appear on 
the account. The advisor explains  that it will depend  on when the money  is claimed from 
Barclays. And if that takes longer  then the timescale for it to appear will also be longer. That 
appears to reflect whats happened in this case.  So while its unfortunate  the payment was 
received and withdrawal  debited  in a different order to the way they were made I dont think 
that was because of anything  Barclays got wrong. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept  or reject  my decision  before 19 July 2019.  
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1002850