K820x#14Complaint
Mr G has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly refused to pay his claim under his 
motor policy  because Mr G left the keys in his car.
background
Mr G was selling his car and a prospective buyer came to look at it. Mr G said this buyer  
wanted to check  the oil and asked Mr G to get some paper towels  to do so. Mr G did this but 
left both of sets of the keys in the boot whilst he did so. Very sadly,  this prospective buyer 
then drove  off in Mr Gs car.
Because Coveas  policy  doesnt provide cover for theft when the policyholder has left the 
keys in the car, it refused  to pay Mr Gs claim.  Mr G said he was unaware  of any keys in car 
exclusion so he complained. Covea wouldnt change its stance so Mr G brought his 
complaint to us.
The investigator didnt  think Covea had done anything  wrong.  Mr G didnt agree so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
First, all I am dealing  with in this case is the policy  wording of Coveas policy upon which it 
was providing cover  to Mr G. I fully appreciate Mr G believes  his broker  failed to give him a 
copy of the policy wording and that he is adamant he never saw it. However that part of Mr 
Gs complaint is directed  to the broker and is being dealt with separately by another  
ombudsman. 
My role and that of this service, is to assess whether  Covea did anything  wrong  in its 
assessment of Mr Gs claim with regards to the terms and conditions  of the policy. If it did I 
can uphold the complaint  and require it to put things right and if it didnt then theres no 
reason for me to uphold  the complaint.
Mr G has also said he would never  buy a policy with a keys  in car exclusion.  However  the 
keys in car exclusion is an industry standard clause and is contained in every single motor 
policy that I have  seen to date. So I dont  consider  its a clause thats only inserted into 
policies provided  by Covea, or indeed retrospectively inserted by Covea as Mr G has 
claimed. Its a clause commonly inserted in almost all motor  policies as Ive said.  
Consequently its not unusual or in any way just particular to Covea. 
The reason  for motor  insurers  inserting  this exclusion, is that of course  the risk of a car being 
stolen increases considerably if the keys are left in the car or in the ignition with the 
policyholder not in attendance. Hence if insurers like Covea here, exclude covering that risk 
that means the premium level it needs  to charge also reduces considerably.
Insurers are fully entitled to decide what risks they want to cover and what  risks they dont. 
And given  virtually every motor policy contains  this exclusion, I dont consider Covea has 
done anything  wrong in ensuring this clause is in its policy.
Ref: DRN16005642In the policy  documents, the clause  is clearly laid out in the policy summary document  and in 
the policy itself.  So whilst  I appreciate Mr G said he never saw any policy,  from Coveas 
perspective it has clearly laid out the exclusion and it is properly detailed in the policy 
summary document too. The clause excludes cover for the following:
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the keys or lock transmitter  or 
entry card from the keyless entry system  are left in or on the car while  it is left 
unattended.
I fully understand  Mr G didnt mean to leave his keys in the car the way he did when he was 
trying to facilitate this prospective buyers request to check the oil. However the only way this 
person stole Mr Gs car was because  the keys were  left in when Mr G went  to get the paper 
towels which meant he wasnt in attendance  with his car. Mr G has been  very honest in his 
account of what  happened too. But because its clear the keys were left in the car when  Mr 
G went off to his shed or garage to fetch some paper  towels,  Covea has done  nothing wrong 
in relying on its exclusion  in refusing to pay Mr Gs claim.
Mr G has complained that Covea took far too long to deal with his claim which  caused  him 
distress and upset. Covea had to await  the police report which  was delayed and out of its 
control, but it got confused over which police department it should contact. It also instructed 
investigators to meet  with Mr G. However Covea  admitted it did cause some  delays  and 
confusion over the police report and it paid Mr G £100 compensation for this. I agree 
Coveas investigation  into this theft took a long time, however  Im satisfied Covea has 
acknowledged this and paid compensation for this, so I dont consider it needs  to do 
anything more. 
I appreciate Mr G will be very disappointed with my decision. But the fact remains a keys in 
car exclusion is in virtually every motor  policy, its not unusual and it was appropriately  
detailed in this policy. Therefore Covea  has done  nothing wrong in relying on it, to refuse to 
pay Mr Gs claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1600564