K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Allianz  Insurance Plcs  handling of his van insurance  policy.
background
Mr C took out van insurance with another insurer through an insurance broker. That policy 
was from September  2015 to September 2016 (the 2015 policy). 
Mr Cs van was involved in an accident  in January 2016. The other driver said Mr C was at 
fault. That claim remained open  until it was closed in December 2017 as not being Mr Cs 
fault. But during  the time the claim remained open,  Mr C took out a new policy between 
September 2016 and September 2017  (the 2016 policy) with Allianz.
Mr C used the same insurance broker when  he took out the 2015 and 2016 policies. As 
mentioned above,  the 2015 policy was with another insurer. The 2016 policy  was with 
Allianz. 
Mr Cs premium for his 2015 policy cost under  £600. But when  he took out his 2016 policy 
with Allianz, while he had the open claim, his premium almost doubled to just under £1,200.  
Mr C said he was led to believe that the cost of his Allianz policy was as a result of the claim 
being open. He said he was also led to believe  that in the event  the claim closed as not 
being his fault, he would  be given  a refund which would mean the cost of his 2016 policy  
would be similar to the cost of his 2015  policy.
After the claim was closed  as not being  Mr Cs fault in December 2017,  the broker asked 
Allianz if Mr C was due a refund. Allianz said he was and gave a refund to Mr C. But Mr C 
wasnt happy as he felt the refund should have been  much  higher, so he complained.
The refund given by Allianz  for the 2016 policy year was £152.23. But after Mr C complained 
Allianz said the total refund should have been £394.63, so they refunded him a further 
£242.40. They also paid £50 compensation for the inconvenience Mr C experienced 
because of the error. But Mr C felt that the refund  should have been higher, so he brought  
his complaint to our service.
Allianz looked into the refund again  and said they had made  an error by refunding £394.63. 
They said the correct  refund should  have been  £193.94, which meant they overpaid  Mr C by 
over £200.  But they said they wouldnt ask him to refund the overpayment as it was their 
error. 
Mr C brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked  into it. She felt that Allianz 
had dealt with the complaint fairly. As Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision was issued on 9 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending 
to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
As Ive mentioned  above, Mr C took out his policy through a broker.  The broker has 
access to a number  of insurers on their panel of insurers. When a customer, like Mr 
Ref: DRN17618752C, approaches the broker and asks for insurance, the broker finds  an insurer from 
their panel  they feel offer the cover needed. So, although the policy and 
documentation are in the brokers  name, the broker  doesnt underwrite the policy, the 
insurer does. I can understand why Mr C might  have thought the broker  was the 
insurer, but the policy documentation did say who the insurer  was. And when Mr C 
was due to renew  his policy  in 2016, the broker would have asked for quotes from all 
the insurers on their panel  to see which  was better  for Mr C. Thats  why the broker 
proposed Allianz  in 2016, which Mr C accepted. This practice is usual within  the 
motor insurance industry. 
In September  2016, Mr C took out a new policy with Allianz. At that time he had the 
open claim relating  to the accident  in January 2016.  An open claim will eventually be 
concluded in one of two of ways. Either as a non-fault claim or a fault  claim. But 
its normal insurance industry practice to treat an open claim as a fault claim for the 
purposes of calculating premiums, which is what Allianz did in Mr Cs case.  Thats 
because insurers work on a worst case scenario  basis.  So, they treat an open claim 
as though it will conclude  as being the policyholders fault and they calculate the 
premium on that basis. Fault claims usually attract a higher  premium than non-fault 
claims. If the claim later concludes as non-fault, the insurer will then recalculate  the 
premium retrospectively from the start of the policy on the basis  of the claim being 
non-fault and give the policyholder a refund if one is due. So I think  Allianz treating 
the open claim as a fault claim was reasonable.
When the open claim concluded  as non-fault in December 2017,  Allianz  recalculated 
Mr Cs premium on the basis that he had a non-fault claim from September  2016, 
when the policy started. Allianz refunded Mr C £152.23. And after Mr C complained  
to Allianz they paid him a further £242.40 bringing the total refund  to £394.63, which  
meant the amount he paid for his policy in 2016  was around £800. That was around  
£250 higher than Mr Cs policy with the other insurer for the 2015 policy  year. Mr Cs 
expectation was that once  the claim closed as non-fault, the refund should have 
brought his 2016 premium down to an amount  similar to that of his 2015 policy. But I 
wouldnt expect that to be the case. The 2016 policy was based on Mr C having a 
recent non-fault claim,  but the 2015 policy wasnt. Most insurers I know  of charge 
more where a policyholder has recent  non-fault  claims. Furthermore, the 2015  and 
2016 policies  were underwritten by different insurers who have different pricing 
structures. 
It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my 
role to tell an insurer how much they can charge  for their policies. And our service 
generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat 
customers with similar circumstances  in the same way - insurers  are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of 
risk factors.  In other words,  they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses and 
the likelihood of them making a claim in the future  by looking at many different 
factors. It might help if I give just a few examples of the many factors insurers  
consider: the type of car insured; where the car is kept; the policyholders occupation; 
the policyholders  age; the type of licence the policyholder has; the length of time the 
car has been owned; the number of years the policyholder has been  driving;  and past 
driving incidents the policyholder has been involved in. But its not down to me to tell 
insurers what factors they should  take into account when assessing risk, nor how to 
Ref: DRN17618753go about those  assessments.  Different  insurers will have  different views on what  
presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially  a matter of commercial 
judgement, balancing risk against the need  to compete with other policies on offer, 
and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere with. 
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the 
same risk is because insurers have different views on risk. So, different insurers give 
differing levels  of importance to different factors. For example, one insurer might 
consider the insured car to be a high risk car and therefore charge a higher premium 
to reflect  that risk. But another insurer might not consider that particular car to be 
high risk, so their premium might be lower. Insurers base their views on risks using 
statistics and other data.  In Mr Cs case,  the premium calculation for the 2016 policy 
included a non-fault claim. But that non-fault claim wasnt present and didnt form part 
of the risk assessment or premium calculation for the 2015 policy.  I understand that 
Allianz, like most insurers, consider recent  non-fault claims increases the risk. As 
insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think  theres anything  wrong  
with insurers considering whether or not certain individuals  fall into higher risk 
groupings and so wish to charge a higher premium to cover that risk. 
Allianz provided me with information to show how Mr Cs 2016 premium was 
calculated. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Mr C. 
The information showed that once  the open  claim closed  as non-fault and the 
premium for the 2016 policy was recalculated, the refund given to Mr C should have 
been £193.94, not £394.63. So they refunded around £200 more than they should 
have. But Allianz  didnt ask for that overpayment  back. And, in addition, they paid Mr 
C £50 compensation.  I acknowledge the fact that Allianzs initial refund was incorrect 
as it was around £40 less than what it should have been. And that Mr C had to go 
through the inconvenience of complaining. But I think  Allianz  rectified their mistake  by 
paying Mr C £50 compensation and also because it hasn't sought to recover the 
£200 extra  refund. So Mr C is around  £200  better off than he would have been had 
the correct refund been made. I therefore  dont intend to uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Finally, Mr C said he was told that once the open  claim  closed as non-fault, he would 
be refunded the difference  between  the premium he paid for the 2015 policy and the 
premium he paid for the 2016 policy. But, as I understand  it, all of Mr Cs discussions 
were with the broker and not Allianz.  If Mr C wants to pursue this aspect of his 
complaint against  the broker, he should  tell us so we can look into it.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Allianz didnt make any comments in 
response to my provisional  decision. Mr C did and he said:
He did complain about the actions  of the broker  as he feels  the policy was mis-sold. 
But he was told his complaint should  be directed  to the underwriter.
My provisional decision suggested that Allianz  paid the additional £242.40 refund 
before Mr C brought his complaint to our service.  But it wasnt  and the refund was 
made only after Mr C brought his complaint  to us. And Mr C believes the refund was 
only made because  of his ongoing complaint.
His premium  increased by 41%. But on average van insurance  increased by 10-15%  
during the year. Therefore Allianz cant be justified in increasing  his premium by 
around 20% for the non-fault  claim alone.
Ref: DRN17618754my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. I will respond to Mr Cs further  points,  below.
We have set up a separate case file to look into Mr Cs complaint  that the broker  mis-sold 
the policy. So, I wont comment on that any further  in this decision.
Mr C is correct that Allianz made the additional  £242.40 refund  after he brought  his 
complaint to our service. But Allianz  werent aware of Mr Cs complaint until our service told 
them about  it. Ordinarily a complaint  is made to a business first for them to be given an 
opportunity to resolve it. And only if a consumer remains  dissatisfied with the response they 
get do we get involved.  Things happened  slightly differently in that Mr C brought  his 
complaint to us first. Thats not Mr Cs fault because  he believed  another business was 
responsible for the cost of the premium. But Allianz  dealt with the complaint by making the 
additional refund  at the first possible opportunity when our service told them about the 
complaint, which  I think was reasonable.
Mr C said that van insurance  premiums increased on average by 10-15%  during the year but 
his premium went up by 41%,  which means the increase wasnt  reasonable. But there is no 
process by which  insurers  decide  to increase their premiums  by a set percentage. As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  the pricing of premiums is a complex process  where 
insurers consider many  different factors. And they assess the risk posed by each individual  
policyholder and charge a premium to reflect that risk. 
Having a non-fault claim was a factor that had an impact on the cost of Mr Cs premium. But 
I dont think it was the only factor. Its also usual for some factors  risk to change  from one 
year to the other. To give an example, a certain  model of car might be considered  by an 
insurer to be a low risk car to insure. But there might be a sudden  increase in claims arising 
from a fault in that model of car that has led to accidents happening. So, the insurer  might 
consider that model of car to be a higher risk and when renewing a policy  they are likely to 
charge more to reflect  that risk. This is just one example  to demonstrate  how things can and 
do change from one policy year to the next.  Likewise, there might be factors  that decrease in 
risk and lead to a reduction in premium. But there are many factors and some are 
interlinked, which is why the process  is complex.  We dont expect insurers  to publicise how 
they price premiums because that is commercially sensitive. Ultimately, when a policyholder 
is offered a premium when taking out a new policy or when renewing an existing  one, if they 
arent happy with the price they dont have to accept  it and can go elsewhere.
As Ive mentioned  earlier, Ive seen the information as to how Allianz calculated Mr Cs 2016 
premium. And Im satisfied they calculated it reasonably  and that anyone  with the same 
circumstances would  have been treated the same. Im therefore not upholding this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN17618755my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1761875