K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that Close Brothers  Limited placed  a CIFAS marker on his credit file without 
notifying him.
Background
In January 2011 Mr C bought a car funded by a conditional loan provided by Close Brothers.  
In 2013 Mr C sold the car before he had repaid  the loan without telling Close  Brothers. Mr C 
paid his monthly payments by bank card and so was in regular contact  with Close  Brothers. 
Close Brothers became  aware that there  had been  a change of registered keeper and tried 
to contact Mr C, but without success. There was no reply to phone  calls and emails 
bounced. It sent agents to Mr Cs address  but it says his father told the agents he wasnt 
living there. After five months  trying to get hold of him the business  wrote to ask Mr C to get 
in touch and it received  no reply. Close Brothers  then registered the CIFAS.
Mr C continued to make payments and only became aware  of the CIFAS  marker in February 
2019. He complained and said that Close Brothers  had the opportunity to let him know about  
the marker  and asked  that it be removed and he be compensated. It rejected his complaint 
so he brought  the matter to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld.  He said 
that the car was owned by Close Brothers and as it had been sold without notification the 
business was entitled to register a CIFAS  marker  under reason code 5. This covers asset 
conversion. 
Our investigator thought the business had made sufficient  attempts  to contact Mr C prior to 
applying the CIFAS. He noted that later Mr C did get back  in contact with Close Brothers,  but 
it didnt refer to the CIFAS marker.  He didnt think that unreasonable as the CIFAS process 
had been completed and was no longer active  or outstanding.
Nor did he consider  the fact Mr C continued to pay the agreement  off monthly has any effect 
on the CIFAS. The marker was instigated because he broke the terms of the agreement  and 
sold a car owned  by the business  without its consent. Mr C didnt agree and said he had 
been in financial  difficulties at the time and Close Brothers was aware of that.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C entered into an agreement to borrow money and the terms of that agreement were  that 
the car remained in the ownership  of Close Brothers until the loan was repaid.  This means  
he sold something he didnt own and when the owner found  out it tried to find out what had 
happened. It made numerous attempts to get hold of Mr C using the contact details he had 
provided. It even sent an agent to his house,  but his father said he no longer lived there  and 
presumably didnt provide an alternative address.
Even though  Mr C repaid the loan Close Brothers had every right to be concerned as to what 
had happened  to its asset and to register a CIFAS marker on Mr Cs file. It gave him 
sufficient warning. The marker  has since  lapsed and while  it may have been helpful of Close 
Ref: DRN10217552Brother had told him about it in later exchanges it wasnt  required to do so. Mr C says his 
credit rating was affected, but if that is the case I would have expected him to have looked at 
his credit file before.  
That said,  I appreciate  the marker  has caused  Mr C some problems, but I cannot safely  
conclude that Close Brothers did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 
15 June 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1021755