K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy that his whole of life policy had a negligible surrender value  when he 
cancelled it. He considers that the ongoing receipt of commission  by Anthony, Bryant  and 
Company Investment Consultants Limited  (ABC)  the business that sold him the policy  
placed a responsibility on it to review  the policy and advise him that the cost of cover had 
started to exceed the monthly contributions, so eroding the policys value. 
  
background
Mr O took out the policy in 1997. It provided life and critical  illness cover with an initial sum 
assured of £200,000 in return for monthly  premiums  of just over £52. The policy was set up 
on a maximum  cover  basis  and with the level of cover indexed, so the sum assured and 
premiums increased annually, in line with the annual earnings  index. 
The policy was reviewed  in 2007 and Mr O was offered the opportunity  to maintain the 
policys sum assured  at a higher level of £297,000 with significantly increased premiums  of 
around £143  estimated to support the cover until the next review  in 10 years time  or 
reduce the sum assured to a level that was likely to be maintained throughout his life. Mr O 
chose the former option. 
He then continued with the policy until 2017  when, having reviewed  his circumstances and 
ongoing need for cover, he decided  to surrender it. He was then very disappointed to 
discover that the policy had no value. 
Mr O complained to ABC, highlighting that the illustration that had accompanied the 2007 
review documentation  had indicated a potential value for the whole  plan after 20 years  of 
£43,400, assuming  investment returns of 6% per year. (Mr O also made a complaint to the 
policy provider, which has been  dealt with separately.)
Mr O said that given  ABCs ongoing receipt  of commission  it shouldve taken steps to review 
the policys position and keep him informed of how it was working,  particularly in respect  of 
how the cost of cover was increasing and impacting upon the value of the policy. He would 
then have been aware that the illustrative surrender value was unlikely to be achieved and 
may well have taken steps to surrender  the policy sooner.
ABC felt that the complaint had been  referred outside the required time limits. But it added 
that while it could  understand Mr Os disappointment, the policy  had been  sold primarily for 
protection rather than investment purposes and that any values given in respect of potential  
performance were never guaranteed.        
Mr O then referred the complaint to this service. Our adjudicator confirmed with ABC that the 
complaint had been referred in time, which it accepted, but he also didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.  
In brief,  he said that while no terms of business  were available  from the time of the original 
sale in 1997, he thought  it unlikely  they wouldve placed an obligation on ABC to provide 
ongoing reviews.  Equally,  he didnt feel that the payment of commission,  whether at the 
outset or on a continuing trail basis, created  any similar obligation.  
Ref: DRN19052552Mr O didnt accept the adjudicators view, highlighting in particular an additional lump sum 
payment of commission that ABC had received at the point of the 2007 review,  when the 
updated illustration  had been produced. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
I can understand Mr Os frustration with the situation  and why he might conclude  that ABCs 
receipt of ongoing  commission  would place  on it an obligation to provide ongoing reviews.  
But the commission arrangements  in place  relating  to his policy  appear to mirror  usual 
industry practice and are a commercial matter  between ABC and the policy provider. 
Ive seen no evidence  that in this case they were  related to any contractual obligation  to 
reassess the suitability  of the policy at any point.  Indeed, it would be very unusual if they did 
so. Any such arrangement would be a separate matter between Mr O and ABC and would 
be paid for separately. 
It is unfortunate that the policy providers illustration  of 2007 was so positive. But it appears  
to have been produced in line with the regulatory  requirements of the time and to have made 
clear that it was a guide and that nothing was guaranteed. (Not that ABC wouldve been 
responsible for that information in any event.)
Its certainly the case that ABC could have contacted  Mr O in the intervening years to 
discuss the policy. But I dont think there  was any requirement that meant it should have 
done so. Even the additional lump  sum commission paid in 2007 that Mr O has highlighted 
would simply have  been another element of the commission structure originally agreed 
between ABC and the policy provider. 
In summary,  I find Im unable  to conclude that ABC acted incorrectly or unreasonably in 
respect of Mr Os policy. If at the point  of the 2007  review Mr O made the decision to 
continue with the cover on the basis of information  included  in the policy  providers 
illustration then I dont think I can fairly  hold ABC responsible for this.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1905255