K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS) supplied  him with a 
car which wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  
background
In March 2018, Mr W acquired a new car through a four year hire purchase agreement 
financed by BMWFS. The cash price of the car was around £34,000 with monthly 
repayments of around £425. 
Mr W says that when  he got home after taking possession of the car he noticed a number of 
scratches. He said the dealership should have picked these up during any pre-delivery 
inspection. He also had a problem with the SatNav  not working. The dealership fixed  the 
SatNav issue but Mr W says they didnt  repair all of the scratches.   
Mr W emailed the dealership in November  2018 to say the car had started  making a 
whining/rattling noise at the back of the car when  changing gears. He said this had been  
happening for the last month  or two. 
Mr W says he took the car to a garage  which  was affiliated to the dealership. They  inspected  
the noise issue  and said it was to do with the exhaust. Mr W says the garage told him the 
noise was louder  than normal but there wasnt any fault with the car. Mr W then complained 
to BMWFS about the noise. 
The car was taken back to the affiliate garage  in February 2019 for a further  inspection.  This 
time the garage  carried out a repair. The garage told Mr W and BMWFS  the repair had 
solved the noise issue. For this reason BMWFS didnt think it needed to do anything  more. 
Mr W said the noise was still present and the repair hadnt fixed  it. He said the noise is loud 
and hes embarrassed  to drive the car because  of it. He told BMWFS he wanted to reject the 
car. He also wanted  BMWFS to refund his deposit, licence plate transfer fee and his GAP 
insurance premiums. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She didnt think  the car was of 
satisfactory quality. She noted the affiliate  garage  had said the fault was due to a 
manufacturing defect.  She said as there  had already been one failed attempt at a repair,  it 
was fair to allow Mr W to reject the car. She also recommended BMWFS refund Mr Ws 
deposit, licence  plate transfer fee and 25% of the monthly repayments hed made. She didnt 
recommend a refund of the GAP insurance premiums  as Mr W had benefited from the 
insurance. But she did ask BMWFS  to cover any administration  fee Mr W might  incur in 
cancelling it. 
Mr W accepted the investigators recommendations but BMWFS  didnt agree. In summary  it 
said:
Mr W only raised his concerns about the noise eight months  after taking ownership of 
the car. The Consumer Rights  Act 2015  (CRA) says as the fault presented itself six 
months after ownership started, the onus is on Mr W to demonstrate the fault was 
inherent from the point of supply.
A manufacturing defect can occur  at any time in the lifetime of a car. But that doesnt  
mean it was there from the point of supply. 
Ref: DRN14361252BMWFS are willing to replace the faulty  exhaust  with a high performance  exhaust 
that will fix the problem. The noise wasnt affecting the performance of the car and 
therefore replacing the exhaust  with an upgraded one would be a fair and reasonable 
solution. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Ive taken into account  
amongst other things   the relevant law, and in particular the CRA.
Mr W acquired a car through a hire purchase  agreement. Under this type of agreement  
BMWFS is the supplier  of the goods  and is responsible for any complaints about their 
quality. The CRA implies a term into the hire purchase agreement  that the car supplied  by 
BMWFS should be of satisfactory quality. 
To be considered satisfactory quality, the CRA  says the car should meet the standard  a 
reasonable person would expect to be satisfactory, taking  into account the description, price  
and other  relevant circumstances.  I think its reasonable that in the case  of a car, some  of 
the relevant circumstances  would be its age and mileage. 
The CRA also says that the considerations for the quality of the car includes its general state 
and condition, fitness for purpose,  appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, durability and other relevant  factors.  
BMWFS supplied Mr W with a brand new car with a cash value of around  £34,000.  So I think  
a reasonable person would expect  it to be of a higher quality than a cheaper and/or 
previously used car. I think it would also be reasonable  to expect the car to last a 
considerable period of time before any problems occurred.  
Mr W first reported a problem with noise eight  months after taking possession of the car. 
BMWFS says the onus is therefore on Mr W to show the problems were present  on the car 
from the outset. But I think he has demonstrated  this. And BMWFS hasnt been able to 
provide anything persuasive  to suggest  otherwise. Ill explain why. 
When the repair was attempted  by the affiliate garage in February 2019, it was noted that 
the noise was caused by a manufacturing defect.  BMWFS dont appear to dispute this but 
instead it says a manufacturing defect  can occur at any time.  For that reason it says it isnt 
enough to say the fault was present at the time of supply. But I dont agree with BMWFS  
reasoning. 
A manufacturing defect  could only occur during the manufacturing process. So it must  have  
been present  when  the car  or the specific component(s)  was built. And that was prior to it 
being supplied  to Mr W. If the car was built with defective components,  then it follows  that 
the car is unlikely to be of satisfactory quality.  
I accept that a manufacturing defect might not cause a noticeable fault to appear on the car 
for several  months or in some cases years. So its also reasonable to take into account the 
nature of the problem and whether its fair to say the car or components were reasonably 
durable. 
Ref: DRN14361253In Mr Ws case  the noise  problem occurred after around eight months and when it had 
travelled less than 3,000 miles.  Given the age, price and mileage Mr W had covered in this 
time, I dont think it was reasonable to expect  the problem to have occurred when it did. Ive 
also considered  that the garage that carried out the repairs thought the fault was caused by 
a manufacturing  defect, and there was therefore an inherent problem with the car. Taking 
everything into account, I dont think the car was sufficiently  durable and therefore it wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W. 
The repair carried out by the garage  didnt resolve  the problem and the noise  has continued. 
So the car is still of unsatisfactory  quality.  It appears  the car was also delivered with some 
cosmetic damage and only some of this has been repaired. As Mr W was supplied with a 
brand new,  relatively  expensive car, I dont think it was reasonable to expect these kinds of 
issues. So Ive gone on to think about  what would be a fair way for BMWFS to put things 
right. 
BMWFS says it is prepared to replace  the faulty  exhaust with a high performance one. It 
appears Mr W accepts  this would likely  fix the fault  as he initially  requested BMWFS  to 
carry out that exact repair much earlier in the process. But BMWFS werent  prepared  to offer 
that repair at an earlier stage. And it appears  its only now willing to do so because  Mr W has 
asked to reject the car. 
The CRA says that if a repair  is unsuccessful then Mr W can exercise  his final right to reject. 
As there has already been  one failed repair, I think its fair that Mr W can now reject the car. 
While its possible  replacing the exhaust  with the high performance  one might fix the 
problem, theres no guarantee that will be the case.  Mr W has also had an issue  with 
cosmetic damage since the date of supply which doesnt appear to have been fully resolved. 
So given all the wider  circumstances,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for BMWFS  to 
now end the hire purchase  agreement,  take back the car at no further cost to Mr W and 
refund his deposit so he can put it towards  a new car. 
BMWFS says the noise problem hasnt affected  the performance of the car. I dont think  
thats quite right. The car was making abnormal noises, so it wasnt performing as it should  
in that regard. But I accept it didnt prevent the car from being  driven,  or affected  any other 
aspects of the cars performance.  
Mr W says the noise  was so loud at times  that he was embarrassed to drive it. He says 
people often stared at him as he drove past and hed get unwanted comments from friends  
and family.  In the first year of having the car Mr W had only driven around 4,000  miles. And it 
appears his average  usage (in mileage)  decreased  after he reported the problems in 
November 2018.  So on balance, Im persuaded the noise problem did impact  his enjoyment 
of the car and his willingness to drive it. For this reason, I think  its fair that BMWFS refund 
him 25% of each  of his monthly  repayments from when he first reported the issue  in 
November 2018.  
Mr W took out a GAP insurance  policy which he wants  BMWFS  to refund. But I dont think 
that would  be fair. Although Mr W hasnt claimed on it, he was still covered so he has 
benefitted from having the insurance in place. But BMWFS  should  refund the cost of any 
administration fee Mr W might  incur in cancelling the policy,  providing Mr W can evidence  
what hes been charged. 
Ref: DRN14361254Lastly, Mr W incurred a cost in transferring his licence plate to this car. As hell now need  to 
do that again, its fair for BMWFS to refund the initial transfer cost if Mr W provides proof  of 
what he paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  to:
End the hire purchase agreement with nothing  further to pay. 
Collect the car at no cost to Mr W. 
Refund the £2,736.81  deposit Mr W paid, adding 8% simple  interest  per year from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Refund 25% of each  monthly repayment Mr W has made since  November 2018.
Refund the cost of the licence plate transfer and any GAP  insurance cancellation 
administration fee, if Mr W provides proof hes paid these  costs.  
Remove any adverse  data recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1436125