K820x#14complaint
Mr D and the estate  of the late Mrs D say Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr D and the late Mrs D bought the policy in 2006 at the same time as taking out a further 
advance on their mortgage. They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy  in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs D for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £441.60 a month towards their 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £26.22 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs D was employed  as a restaurant  manager. She was entitled to some  sick 
pay, redundancy pay and death  in service benefit  and had £2,000 in savings. She was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
Mr D was employed in manufacturing.  He has told us he was entitled to sick pay, 
redundancy pay and death  in service benefit.  He has said that he also had £2,000  in 
savings. Mr D has said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale.  
Mr D has said that the couple  had other insurance cover  at the time. However he did not 
respond to our request for more details about  this cover. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 1982 and that a 
further advance  was arranged in 2006.  
Mr Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ds representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ds 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN14762792The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Mr and Mrs D arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  a regulated mortgage 
contract. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN14762793In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN14762794misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr D 
and the estate of Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
they suffered  loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr D and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Due to the passage of time, BoS no longer has any of the actual documentation from the 
sale. However, from what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, the PPI would 
normally be presented  as optional and I havent  seen any evidence that would lead me to 
conclude that something different happened  in this case. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs D knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it did provide  advice during this sale. Mr D appears unsure  on this aspect of the 
sale. Looking at what happened when BoS sold Mr and Mrs D the PPI, Im persuaded that it 
provided advice.  The sale was in the context of an interview for further borrowing and BoSs 
usual process in such a circumstance was to provide advice.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. It seems  Mr D cant  remember  clearly  what  happened 
and there  is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy.  This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited information 
about Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mr and Mrs D would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest BoS considered whether Mr and Mrs D 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN14762795-Mr and Mrs D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that their ability to continue 
to meet  their mortgage repayments would  have been put under strain if either Mr or 
Mrs D wasnt working  for an extended  period of time  even allowing for their 
employer benefits and savings.
-Although Mr D says they were  financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. 
There was nothing  about their employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for them to claim.  Although Mr D has said that Mrs D was working  part-time, 
the evidence from the sale shows that she was earning more than Mr D in 2006, so I 
am not persuaded that she was working less than 16 hours per week. Regarding  pre-
existing medical conditions, Mr D has told us about treatment  he had in 2001 for a 
narrowing artery. However, that was five years before the sale and Mr D has said 
that he never had to have any time off work  as a result of the condition.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs D 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs D all of the information  
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN14762796PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ds. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr D has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs D suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs D. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs D suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs D would have  still taken  out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr D and the estate of Mrs D 
suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if BoS had explained 
things properly, Mr and Mrs D would have  acted differently, or whether they would have  
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr D says they wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
Ref: DRN14762797wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it is unclear whether  BoS told them the exact premium at the point  
Mr and Mrs D applied for the policy. Having said that, Mr and Mrs D were  told the cost 
before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number  of years,  so if the costs  
were significantly  at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might 
have raised that with BoS at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs D would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ds 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr and 
Mrs D knew about  or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy 
and had consulted  a doctor  about  in the 12 months before the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs D werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs D be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. Although Mr D says he had a 
medical condition  some time before the policy was taken out and the policy  wouldnt have 
provided cover had he needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr 
Ref: DRN14762798D has told us that he had a procedure in 2001 in relation  to a narrowing artery  but he has 
told us that he never needed to take any time off work as a result of that condition.  So Im 
not persuaded that Mr D would have thought that might  be a reason  hed need  to make a 
claim on the policy.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr and Mrs D would  have been  caught by any 
of the other significant exclusions.  So I still think they had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
D might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs D from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs D, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if they were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs D that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs D would have received full sick pay for 
and their redundancy entitlement  was also likely to be significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs D would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and/or Mrs D be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Ds sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if they were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs D would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN14762799That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs D found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that they would not have taken  
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr D in the position he would have been in if they had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that Mr and Mrs D would not have taken out the 
policy, I am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still 
have taken out the PPI had they been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about 
the policy they were  buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr D compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr D thinks BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2006 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs D and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN147627910my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1476279