K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  Capital One (Europe)  plc couldnt find her account when she wanted  to 
pay her outstanding balance. It unfairly placed  late payment markers on her credit file.
background
Miss G had a credit  card account with Capital One. She called to pay the outstanding 
balance on 13 June  2018. But Capital One couldnt locate her account.  Miss G said she 
called and emailed  repeatedly to try and sort things out. But she didnt get a response.
Although Miss G paid off the balance on her account in November 2018 Capital One 
recorded late payment  markers on her credit  file. Its written off charges totalling  £60. But 
Miss G doesnt feel thats enough compensation for whats happened.
Capital One acknowledged it couldve done  more  to locate Miss Gs account when she 
called in June  2018. Shed given the details for a closed account.  And once the correct 
account had been identified Miss G hadnt been able to pass  the security questions. Capital 
One said it wrote to Miss G but didnt hear from her until October.
Capital One said itd updated  her address details in April 2017 but hadnt received  any 
further updates.  So itd sent letters to the address  it had on file. And Miss G had cancelled 
her direct debit instruction  after the May payment had been received. So it hadnt received 
any monthly payments  from June  2018.
Miss G wasnt satisfied  with Capital Ones response. So she contacted  our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. When Capital One located  the active  account Miss G 
hadnt been able to answer the security questions. And she felt the checks were essential  to 
protect customers and their accounts.  She could see Capital One had acknowledged  it 
couldve done more  to locate the account when shed called. And itd refunded  the late 
payment charges. But she didnt think Capital One had done anything  wrong by not 
continuing the call after she couldnt answer  the security questions.  
Miss G hadnt provided any evidence  to show shed tried to contact Capital  One between  
June and October 2018. So she wouldnt be recommending it pay any compensation. 
Miss G didnt  agree. So shes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Gs frustration.  She wanted to pay off the outstanding balance  on her 
Capital One account. But it wasnt able to find her details. And she now has missed  payment 
markers on her credit file. So Ive looked carefully  at everything thats happened to see if 
Capital One has made  any mistakes.
Miss G contacted Capital  One in June 2018.  She wanted to pay off the balance of just over 
£100. But it seems  Miss G initially provided  details for an old account thatd been closed. So 
Capital One couldnt find the details on its system. 
Ref: DRN16601262When the active account was located  Miss G wasnt able to provide the security responses. I 
appreciate shed done this in the past. But its important Capital One is able to verify that its 
speaking to the correct person every time they call. Because Miss G wasnt  able to pass the 
identification process the call was ended. 
It appears Miss G cancelled her direct  debit instruction to Capital One after the May 2018 
payment had been made. I realise  she intended to pay off the balance. But she was unable 
to do so. And this meant she was no longer meeting her obligation to make monthly 
payments to the account.
Ive seen copies  of letters sent to Miss G from July to October  2018.  They  informed Miss G 
that shed missed her monthly payments. And the letters explained the amount she needed 
to pay to catch up. The letters also explained the consequences of not making the agreed 
payments. The letters  were sent to the address Capital One had on file. But it seems  Miss G 
had moved. And Ive not seen anything  to suggest  she informed Capital One of her new 
details.
Because Miss Gs correspondence details hadnt  been updated she didnt receive any 
monthly statements  or the letters about  the missed payments. But I cant  really hold Capital 
One to blame  for that. It followed  the correct procedures and tried to let Miss G know what 
was happening.  And it was Miss Gs responsibility to keep Capital One updated  when she 
changed address.
Capital One has a duty to inform the credit reference  agencies  how an account is being 
managed. Because the monthly direct debits  had been cancelled it reported  the missed  
payments from June to October 2018.  And I dont think  it would be fair to ask Capital One to 
remove the markers from Miss Gs credit file. It has to accurately report  whats  happened.
I realise Miss G will be disappointed with this outcome. Capital One has acknowledged it 
couldve tried harder  to locate Miss Gs account  when she called in June 2018. But Ive not 
seen any evidence to suggest Miss G made  any other attempts to contact Capital One until 
October 2018. So I think its decision to refund the 5 monthly missed  payment charges 
totalling £60 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And I wont  be asking Capital One 
to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1660126