K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that The Royal London  Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  (Royal  London)  
mishandled a claim made on her sons life insurance  policy.  
background
Mrs Ws son (who Ill refer to as B) took out a life insurance policy  with Royal  London in 
June 2017. B sadly completed suicide in November 2017,  and Mrs W submitted a claim on 
his life insurance policy with Royal London. Mrs W completed the required claims 
documentation and returned this to Royal  London  on 16 January 2018, which  gave them 
permission to contact  the relevant experts  and personnel for information  necessary to the 
claim.
Royal London began assessing Mrs Ws claim,  but it wasnt  until April 2018  that they 
informed her it had been  declined  as a result of an exclusion  relating to deaths caused  by 
self-inflicted injury within the first 12 months  of the policys  inception.  Mrs W complained as 
she felt that Royal London shouldve told her from the outset that the claim was likely to be 
declined, given the circumstances they were aware  of. She says that Royal  London took too 
long to provide  her with an outcome when she couldve been making alternative 
arrangements  to the extent that it has caused  her financial loss. Mrs W further feels  that 
some of the documents requested by Royal London were unnecessary, such  as the 
toxicology report.
Royal London say they asked for all the information  as they wanted to have a complete 
understanding of the circumstances of death before taking the decision to decline the claim. 
They say theyd been sent incomplete information  from the procurator fiscal, which delayed 
the progress of the claim when they had to request the missing  documentation. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Royal  London had 
assessed the claim fairly and within a reasonable timeframe,  and he didnt consider the 
documentation requested to have  been  unnecessary. Mrs W disagreed, as she felt that 
Royal London shouldve  known the cause of death a lot sooner than April 2018 when they 
eventually declined her claim, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im very sorry to hear about Mrs Ws 
tragic loss of her son, and I appreciate that this must  be an extremely  difficult time for her. 
Having considered everything  in this complaint, however, Im afraid Im unable to uphold it, 
which I understand will come as a disappointment  to Mrs W. But Id like to explain  my 
reasons for doing so. 
The life cover that B held with Royal London contained  an exclusion within the policy terms 
and conditions that states We wont pay a claim ifits the result of intentional  self-inflicted 
injury, unless its a claim for death more than 12 months  after your cover  starts or restarts. 
After investigating  Mrs Ws claim, Royal London declined her claim under this exclusion. But 
Mrs W submits that it took them far too long to do so  given that they were  aware  of Bs 
suicide when she initially informed  them of the claim in November 2017  and that this delay 
caused her unnecessary distress and financial loss, as she could have  sold Bs property 
before it had decreased in value.
Ref: DRN10532022I can see that Mrs W notified Royal  London  of the claim  on 20 November 2017, but it wasnt  
until 16 January 2018  that they received the completed claim form that allowed them  to 
formally begin assessing the claim. I appreciate that Mrs W may have told them  the cause of 
her sons  death when she first notified  them of the claim, but I wouldnt expect an insurer to 
decline a claim before having  properly assessed the claim, or without having seen any 
official documentation. 
I also appreciate that Royal London wouldve had sight  of Bs death certificate when the 
claim forms were  returned. But the policy exclusion provides further context around self-
inflicted injury by stating that If the cause of the claim is the death of the person covered, 
intentional self-inflicted injury  means in our reasonable  opinion the most likely cause of death  
is that the person covered  took their own life, whether or not specifically  shown as a verdict 
or cause  of death  in a death  certificate,  coroners report or equivalent documentation. 
The above  term essentially entitles Royal  London to carry  out their own enquiries to be 
satisfied  in their own reasonable opinion  that the cause of death was due to the person 
taking their own life, notwithstanding  any cause of death shown on any other documentation. 
So they didnt  need to accept the death  certificate  at face value, which did not conclusively 
state whether  B had taken  his own life in any event. So I dont think Royal  London acted 
unreasonably by carrying out further  enquiries,  rather than declining  the claim immediately at 
that point.
Having received the claim form, Royal London requested health information from Bs general  
practitioner, as well as documentation regarding the cause  of death from the procurator 
fiscal. The procurator fiscal responded on 8 February 2018 confirming that B had completed 
suicide, along  with a copy of the post-mortem report. The post-mortem report detailed  the 
practitioners opinion as to the cause of death,  where it was explained  that his interpretation 
takes account of toxicological  analysis, but there  was no toxicology report  included with the 
post mortem  report, so Royal London  requested that this document be provided as well.
Mrs W further submits  that Royal London  had enough to decline the claim at this point, given 
the cause of death was confirmed within the procurator fiscals letter and post-mortem 
report, and that there was no need for them to further request the toxicology report. I can 
appreciate Mrs Ws point  of view, but in assessing Mrs Ws claim, Royal London were 
entitled to ask for all reasonable  information  to gain a complete understanding  of the 
circumstances of how B died. And given the circumstances of the claim, I would expect an 
insurer to carry out a full and proper  investigation into the circumstances before deciding  
whether the claim  can reasonably be declined under any exclusion.  So, given that the 
toxicology report was referred to, and informed the basis of the post-mortem report, I dont  
consider it unreasonable that Royal London  would want to request this as well to ensure 
they had a complete picture of what had happened. 
As it stands, it took until 15 March  2018  for the procurator  fiscal  to provide Royal London 
with the toxicology report, and they then issued their reasons for declining  the claim around 
three weeks later on 9 April 2018. I appreciate it took a while  for Mrs W to receive a definitive 
answer on her claim from when it was first submitted, but Royal London gave their answer 
three weeks after receiving everything they required in order to properly assess  her claim, 
which I dont consider to be particularly unreasonable in the circumstances. And given that B 
had completed suicide within 12 months of having  taken the policy,  I dont  consider the claim 
to have been declined unfairly.  
Ref: DRN10532023I understand that the time it took to reach  an answer  on the claim was a particularly  
distressing time for Mrs W, and unfortunately it did take a bit longer than it should  have as 
Royal London were  waiting on information  from third parties.  But I dont consider their 
investigation to have been unnecessary or unwarranted. So it follows that I cant fairly hold 
them responsible for any financial loss or distress Mrs W has experienced. 
Mrs W has also asked  us to consider whether her claim  outcome wouldve been  any 
different if the cause  of death  had been  culpable homicide. But Im afraid such questions are 
beyond the scope of this decision as well as the remit of this service,  as I can only look at 
that which has actually  happened to determine  whether its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1053202