K820x#14complaint
Ms R says Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Ms R had two loans with Uncle Buck in September  and November 2018. Both loans were for 
£500 and were repayable in six monthly instalments.
An adjudicator considered  Ms Rs complaint but did not think  it should be upheld. Ms R didnt 
agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Before lending to Ms R, Uncle Buck asked her to provide some  information about her 
income and expenditure. Ive seen that for both loans  Ms R said she had a monthly  income 
of £1,340 from employment.  Her declared  monthly  expenditure  totalled  £761 for the first loan 
and £850 for the second. These declarations included £350 for credit  commitments and 
£170-£175 for other expenditure. Ive also seen that Ms R said she was living  with her 
parent(s) at the time.
Uncle Buck  also carried  out credit  checks before  lending. These seem to show  that Ms R 
had one outstanding short-term loan at when she applied for her loans with Uncle Buck.  
These checks also appear to show that Ms R had £6,000-£8,000 of debt in the form of loans 
and around £4,500 of revolving credit debt (e.g. credit card debt).
Ive considered what Uncle Bucks credit  checks showed against  the information  Ms R 
provided about her income and expenditure, which suggested she had disposable income of 
around £500-£580  per month, compared  to the repayments for the Uncle  Buck loans of 
around £160 per month. 
I dont think the credit  commitments figure declared  by Ms R is likely to have been  entirely  
accurate in the context of Uncle Bucks credit  search. Ms R clearly had a fairly high level of 
debt, including  existing  high-cost loans  and revolving credit.  £350  doesnt seem to me to 
have been enough to service that debt  and Uncle Bucks credit  search  supports this 
finding.
Uncle Buck  hasnt really  explained in any detail what it did to account  for the level of debt it 
saw on Ms Rs credit file, compared  to what Ms R declared. But despite this, I dont think  it 
acted irresponsibly by lending the amounts it did, on the terms agreed. The monthly 
repayments were significantly less than Ms Rs declared disposable income,  therefore  
Ref: DRN13539012leaving Ms R with additional funds to meet her other  commitments.  And I dont think  these 
applications, which were  for loans  with relatively modest monthly  repayments, warranted  
Uncle Buck  carrying out the sort of in-depth checks (such as asking for payslips or bank 
statements to verify  what Ms R declared) which might have shown these  loans were  not 
sustainably affordable for Ms R.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1353901