K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that a car she has on finance through  PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) 
was faulty, or developing faults, at the point of supply.
background
In January 2018 Miss R took receipt of a used vehicle. The car had completed 30,208 miles 
at the point of supply  and was first registered  in 2012. She financed the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with PSA. 
But she says the car is faulty and has failed its MOT and shes explained that this has led 
her to lose her job. She therefore asked PSA to allow  her to reject the car.
PSA noted that Miss R had first reported  problems  to the dealership in September 2018, 
about eight months  after shed taken  charge of the vehicle. At that time the dealership 
identified issues with a split exhaust  gas recirculation (EGR) pipe and a faulty airbag 
electronic control  unit (ECU). The dealership  hadnt  noted the problems  that Miss R 
subsequently complained  about in the MOT  that was conducted in November. In that MOT 
the issues highlighted were that some  tyres  were  worn and that the supplementary  restraint 
system warning lamp indicated a fault. PSA said that they were  only responsible for faults 
that were present at the point of supply and that Miss R hadnt provided them with evidence  
this was the case.
So Miss R referred her complaint to this service. But our investigator  didnt think  there was 
evidence any of the faults Miss R referred  to had been present from the beginning. She 
noted that the faults the car had in the MOT were different  from those reported  a little earlier 
by the dealership. So she didnt think they could have been present at the onset of the 
agreement and she explained, that for her to ask the business  to take any action, she would  
have to be persuaded that was the case.  She noted  that Miss R had been able to drive  
nearly 16,000  miles in almost ten months  of ownership and she didnt think  it was likely shed 
have been able to do that if the car was faulty  when she got it. So she didnt think  PSA had 
done anything  wrong.
But Miss R was still disappointed. She provided a report from a road side assistance  
company, for a breakdown in late June 2018.  The report  said the turbo  pipe had been 
repaired and a connector needed replacing. But the investigator wasnt  persuaded that this 
was evidence the car was faulty from the beginning so Miss R asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  I know this will disappoint Miss R 
so please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN18387662Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Miss R acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then PSA is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But PSAs responsibility  for the car is not unlimited.  Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards. 
the breakdown  in June 
The mechanic fixed a turbo hose but at this point Miss R had already had the car for some  
time. The fault was repaired at the roadside and Ive not been provided  with any evidence to 
suggest it was a fault that was likely to be present at the point of supply.
I think its most likely  this fault happened at a point after Miss R took receipt of the car. I say 
that because at the point  it was identified shed already completed over 8,000  miles and I 
think it would  have  been unlikely shed have been  able to do that with a broken turbo hose.
So I dont  think theres evidence this fault was present from the beginning and I dont think  it 
would be reasonable to hold PSA responsible.
the dealership  inspection  in September
The dealership noted a split EGR  pipe and a faulty airbag ECU.  
The car had already been in Miss Rs possession for over eight months and shed  completed  
considerable mileage. So I think its reasonable to suggest that Miss R would need to 
demonstrate these problems had been  there  from the beginning. 
Im not persuaded that this is the case. I dont think it likely  Miss R would have been  able to 
complete unhindered, and significant,  mileage  with a split EGR  pipe.  And I think if the air bag 
ECU had been  faulty at the point of supply its likely the warning lamp would have been 
illuminated at that point.  I dont think this was the case as I think, if it had been, Miss R would 
have been likely to have contacted the dealership earlier.
the failed MOT
Issues identified  in the MOT referred  to various  tyre tread problems  and to a supplementary 
restraint system  warning lamp, indicating a fault.
Tyres are a wear and tear item and Miss R had completed almost  16,000  miles in the car 
when the car failed  its MOT. It wouldnt be reasonable to suggest  unacceptable wear was 
present at the point of supply.
Theres been no corroboration but it may be possible the restraint system warning lamp 
refers to the issue the dealership identified in September with the airbag ECU. Im not sure if 
Ref: DRN18387663Miss R had that fixed at the time. I can see the dealership explained  they wouldnt cover it 
under warranty. But, as Ive explained,  I am not persuaded  that this fault was there  at the 
point of supply  anyway: there would probably have been a warning lamp  on if it was. 
So overall, Im not persuaded that there was anything wrong with this car at the point of 
supply and Im therefore not asking PSA to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1838766