K820x#14Complaint
Mrs L, trading as N, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC arranged to provide a card machine  
which she could not use, but was liable for 18 months fees.
Background
As part of her business, Mrs L was supplied a card machine through Lloyds. She entered 
into a three-year contract with a third party.
When the machine  arrived, Mrs L found she could not use it as she had no telephone line or 
Wi-Fi signal.
Mrs L complained to Lloyds as she said she was told at the point of sale that there was a 14-
day cooling  off period and she was not told of the contract length, fees and cancellation  
charges. She thought that as the machine  hadnt  been used, she should  be able to return it 
and cancel the contract.
Lloyds did not uphold the complaint. They said the conversation with the sales advisor was 
clear, the terms and conditions were  agreed by Mrs L and that she had said there was a 
telephone line and Wi-Fi available.  They said she would have to pay 18 months fees if she 
wished to cancel  the contract.
Mrs L did not agree with this outcome and brought the matter  to our service.
The investigator was of the view that the sales advisor made Mrs L aware of all the fees to 
be charged, the length of the contract and the cancellation charges and there was no 
mention of any cooling off period. She also saw a copy of the contract agreement signed by 
Mrs L where this information  was repeated.  She was also of the view that Mrs L confirmed to 
the sales advisor that Wi-Fi was going  to be available in the property. 
Mrs L disagreed and said Lloyds should have offered a cooling  off period and should have 
made it clear  there wasnt one.  This  had been  unfair. So, the matter  has been  passed to me 
for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  is the same  as the investigators  view,  for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
In Mrs Ls initial complaint to Lloyds,  she said shed  been mis-sold  the card machine contract  
and wasnt told about the 36-month contract. She also said she had been told there was a 
14-day cooling  off period. Lloyds disputed all of this. They also said the machine that had 
been provided was the most  suitable one given that Mrs L had stated that Wi-Fi and a phone 
line would be available.
I have listened  to the point of sale telephone call between Mrs L and Lloyds. I heard  the 
advisor, to ensure he could offer the most suitable  card machine, ask if Wi-Fi was available  
on the premises. Mrs L replies Yes, we will have that and the phone  lines put in. I think  this 
Ref: DRN14709722is probably why this particular card machine  was offered and shows  that it is likely that Mrs L 
was aware that Wi-Fi was necessary for it to work.
On this call the contract length was also discussed.  Mrs L was told of the contract  length  and 
cancellation fees. These fees are also shown  on the agreement that Mrs L subsequently 
signed.
Mrs L, in her complaint  to Lloyds and when she complained to us, gave her recollection of 
the telephone calls and the contract  agreement. I am in no way calling into question her 
truthfulness, but the recording of the call provides  strong evidence of what  was agreed,  and 
along with the signed contract, I find, on balance,  the arguments made by Lloyds to be the 
most persuasive. 
There was no mention of any cooling off period during this call, and Ive seen no evidence  
that it was mentioned at any other  point.  Mrs L has a recollection of being told this, but on 
balance I think she was mistaken and no cooling off period  was offered as part of this sale. 
Mrs L has said that Lloyds  should have offered a cooling off period. The three-year contract 
Mrs L was entering into was with a third party, so Lloyds were  not responsible for its terms 
and conditions. It would be unfair  to say Lloyds should have offered this as it was not within 
their gift to do so. Mrs L also said she should  have been told there wasnt  a cooling off 
period. Even if she had been told this, on balance,  I think Mrs L would have taken  this 
machine anyway. Her priority was getting the card reader and believed it would work. I dont 
think a cooling off period was a priority  for her at the point of sale and it only became one 
once she discovered  she was unable to have  Wi-Fi  to make the machine function properly.
I understand Mrs Ls frustration, as she feels it is unfair that she entered  into a contract for a 
card machine that she must continue  paying  for, despite never having used it. However, the 
machine was provided to her as a result of the information she gave, the terms of the 
agreement were discussed and agreed by her and subsequently given to her in writing. 
Having listened  to the call I do not think Mrs L was pressured into the contract and I think  
she entered into it willingly as the product was something that she wanted for her business. 
As such,  I do not think it is fair to say this was mis-sold  by Lloyds or that they have acted 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L, trading 
as N, to accept or reject my decision before 6 January  2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1470972