K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that delays and poor service  from Plus500UK  Ltd has led to losses  which 
has put him in financial difficulty.
background
Mr A traded contracts for differences (CFDs)  through an execution  only account with 
Plus500UK. He complains  that:
There were problems  with the businesss phone app which  meant he couldnt log on 
when he had open  positions.  When he was finally  able to access  his account, his 
positions had been  closed at a loss. 
When he asked to withdraw money,  Plus500UK  delayed the request while  it asked him 
for more information.  In the meantime he used  the money to trade, which  led to further 
losses.
During one online chat, the member of staff replied to him in Spanish.
Since referring his complaint to this service, Plus500UK has closed his account without 
giving him any notice.
Plus500UK said there were no problems with its phone app on the day Mr A said he couldnt 
connect to its trading  platform. And it said it is obliged to carry out checks when it receives  
withdrawal requests to prevent fraud. It apologised for the message Mr A received which  
wasnt in English. And it told us it decided to close Mr As account because hed raised 
concerns about  the losses hed made and the impact this had had on him.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld, concluding that 
Plus500UK had acted  reasonably.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said he 
didnt have problems  accessing any other apps on his phone and it is problems with 
Plus500UKs trading platform that has led to his losses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the financial difficulties Mr A is now experiencing and the impact this 
has had on his health. I want to reassure him that Ive carefully  considered everything hes 
said and the evidence hes provided.  But, having done so, I do not uphold his complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN15855602Mr A told us he often had difficulty accessing  his account and hes sent us screenshots 
which, although undated, show he received error  messages  when he tried to log in. And hes 
told us he was able to use other apps on his phone so the problem  mustve  been something 
to do with Plus500UK.  The messages  make  reference to issues  with the internet connection. 
I can see he engaged  in online chats with Plus500UK  when he had these problems. But 
Plus500UK couldnt  find a problem at its end and it says its other users didnt report  any 
problems. So I think that, in all likelihood, the problems Mr A had in accessing  his account 
werent due to a failure at Plus500UK. So I cant hold it responsible  for any losses  Mr A says 
he made because  he wasnt  able to trade.
I find Plus500UK acted  in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions when it closed 
the open positions on Mr As account, because his account didnt meet  the margin 
requirements.
When Mr A asked  to withdraw  money from his account, Plus500UK was obliged  to ask for 
extra information  to comply with money laundering regulations and to prevent any 
fraudulent activity on Mr As account.  In the meantime,  Mr A chose to use the money to 
trade, rather than withdraw it. This was his decision  and I cant hold Plus500UK responsible 
for any resulting  trading  losses.
During one online chat, Mr A received  a message in Spanish. Almost immediately, the 
message was re-sent in English, so I dont  find that this mistake  disadvantaged  Mr A in any 
way. Plus500UK has explained why this happened and apologised.
Whilst this service has been investigating  Mr As complaint, Plus500UK  contacted  him to tell 
him it had taken the decision  to close his account. In accordance  with its terms and 
conditions, it didnt  need to give Mr A any notice  of its decision because he didnt have any 
trades open. Plus500UK told us it took the decision  because its aware Mr A is experiencing 
financial difficulties and that he couldnt  sustain  the losses hes made. In the circumstances, 
I conclude it was fair and reasonable for Plus500UK to close the account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1585560