K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that American  Express Services  Europe Limited (AESEL) have rejected a 
claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
The claim has been presented by his wife, Mrs T, whos also an additional account holder.
background
Mr T has a credit  card account with AESEL, his wife Mrs T, is an additional account holder. 
In March 2016 they bought some  furniture from a company Ill call F. This included a 
wardrobe, costing  £799, which they gifted to their son. Mrs Ts name was on the invoice.
But there were problems with the wardrobe and F accepted that there  was a manufacturing 
fault. They took the wardrobe back but didnt refund all the money as they made  a deduction 
to reflect  the used value. In total they refunded £604.63.
Mr T complained to F but they wouldnt refund  all the money  so he referred his complaint to 
AESEL saying that F had breached their contract with him and under section 75 he had an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider,  AESEL.
But AESEL  rejected his complaint. They explained  that in order for a claim under  section  75 
to be considered, goods purchased had to be for the benefit of the main  card member. They 
said as the purchase  had been made for their son and was made using a supplementary 
card, it was not covered  by section 75.
So Mr and Mrs T referred their complaint to this service and our investigator provided his 
opinion. He didnt  agree with AESEL. He was satisfied that this was a joint purchase. He 
noted that Mr and Mrs T had both attended  the shop so he thought it would  be fair and 
reasonable for AESEL to support the claim.
He noted that F had confirmed there was a fault with the wardrobe and that Mr and Mrs T 
hadnt been provided with a replacement wardrobe or been able to have the wardrobe 
repaired. So he thought F had breached  its contract with them and he therefore  thought  a 
fair resolution would  be for AESEL to refund  the difference between  the sales  price  and the 
sum Mr T had already been refunded. He also thought AESEL should refund any interest  
that had been charged  on the debt.
But AESEL  disagreed. They said the wardrobe wasnt purchased for Mr or Mrs T but was 
purchased for their son and they explained that section 75 said the item must have been 
purchased for the direct benefit of the purchaser.  Here they said that wasnt the case. They  
went on to dispute  whether  there  was a fault with the wardrobe. They said it appeared to 
have been damaged and that wasnt the same thing. So they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain.
Ref: DRN16655252Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr T made a claim through  them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
who was the contract  with?
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. 
I can see that AESEL have referred us to previous cases where  this has been at issue but 
here I think there was a valid debtor, creditor,  supplier  relationship  as Im persuaded this was 
a joint purchase.  Because:
Mr T accompanied Mrs T to the shop, the purchase was made together
there appear to be valid reasons why Mr T didnt process the transaction, as Ive read 
he has some  disability  which  would,  I think,  be likely to mean Mrs T was more able to 
manage the transaction.
Ive reviewed the account statement  and think its fair to say Mr and Mrs T share  
expenses and that one therefore operates as the agent  of the other
does it matter that the wardrobe was gifted?
I cant see that theres a requirement under section 75 for there  to be a direct benefit to the 
debtor. I dont think, in these particular circumstances, that it matters  whether the purchase 
was gifted. Mr and Mrs Ts son wasnt a party to the contract with F. He doesnt  break  the 
requisite debtor, creditor, supplier link. 
was there  a breach of contract?
Ive seen a record  of the call our investigator had with F. Its clear that they accept there  was 
a manufacturing fault with the back of the wardrobe and they explain that they would 
usually have ordered a replacement back.  On this occasion that wasnt possible as they 
were no longer dealing  with the supplier. 
Ref: DRN16655253In those circumstances I think a full refund would have been  justified  as the contract  was 
breached. The goods were clearly not of satisfactory quality when supplied: there was a 
manufacturing fault.
In the circumstances, for the reasons I have set out above, I can see no reason why AESEL 
shouldnt fairly and reasonably be asked to provide redress here. I think  they should  refund 
the balance of the money thats  not been  repaid  and which  comes  to £194.37. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell American Express  Services 
Europe Limited to:
refund  the balance  of the £194.37
refund  any interest which has been  applied to that debt on the credit  card
pay 8% simple interest on any credit  balance that was present when the claim was 
assessed
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1665525