K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that National  House-Building Council (NHBC) wont  pay his claim under  his 
building warranty because  it said it doesnt exceed  the minimum claim value (MCV).
background
In March 2019 Mr B made a claim to NHBC under  part 3 of his building  warranty, which  
covers NHBCS liability in years  3  10 of the warranty. He was suffering water  coming  in to 
his kitchen through the balcony  above. NHBC sent out an investigator who determined that 
the damage was caused by a defect  covered  under the warranty,  namely  poor detailing at 
the corners of the flat roof, requiring patching. It was determined  that to put right the damage 
would cost £972. Under the warranty the claim must  exceed  the MCV as indexed annually,  
for it to be paid. At the time of the claim this was £1,630.  So NHBC said it wouldnt  pay for 
the damage.
Mr B said this was unfair. His neighbour had had exactly the same problem, with similar 
damage, and NHBC had paid for that. He also felt that a patch repair wasnt sufficient, as his 
neighbour was having  the whole damp proof membrane replaced. NHBC reviewed the 
matter and agreed that it would be fair to have the whole membrane replaced rather than do 
a patch repair. It estimated this would cost £1,409, still below the MCV. 
Mr B subsequently made a claim on his home insurance. He was advised that as the 
damage was due to a defect, his home insurance  wouldnt cover  it. The surveyor  thought  
there was evidence of leaking into the cavity wall. He put this to NHBC  who said there  was 
no evidence to suggest the leaks related to the cavity trays,  it felt the defect  still lay with the 
balcony deck/roof  covering/flashings.
Mr Bs neighbour gave  consent for his investigation  report from NHBC to be considered  in 
connection with Mr Bs claim. The main difference between the proposed  work related  to the 
cavity trays, which in Mr Bs neighbours case  were  found to be poorly fitted but not in Mr Bs 
case. Also in Mr Bs case NHBC  said the damage came  from a different part of the balcony 
and needed less repair.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that NHBC had acted  reasonably. She 
said that there was a difference between the work carried out at the neighbours property 
and that proposed to be carried out at Mr Bs property.
Mr B disagreed  he thought the damage in his and his neighbours property was identical 
and in the same area. He showed  us photos  to demonstrate that the damage had got worse.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The warranty, in years 3-10, acts as an insurance policy  against  damage caused by certain  
defects. It doesnt warrant  that the property is free from defects  and doesnt  cover damage 
caused by all defects.  And when  a repair is assessed at being below the MCV, NHBC wont 
pay for the cost of repair. NHBCs  liability is to pay for The full Cost, if it is more  than £1,000  
Ref: DRN11056822Indexed, of putting right any actual physical Damage caused by a Defect. Whilst there  may 
be the same  defect in two properties  the damage  caused wont  necessarily be the same.
Mr B says the damage to his and his neighbours property is identical so NHBC should  be 
carrying out the same work as it has for his neighbour. In assessing  such  cases we have to 
rely on the expert evidence provided  this service doesnt carry out expert appraisals. Here 
the evidence from both reports carried out by NHBCs investigators and subsequent 
responses to queries  from Mr B is that:
For Mr Bs property  the damage  is consistent with poor detailing at the corners of the flat 
roof. For the neighbour. water may be entering  the cavity  wall construction  via the 
parapet walls  and this may be due to incorrectly fitted cavity trays  to the parapet walls.
In the neighbours case, it was considered  that the cavity  tray detailing around the 
balustrade was contributing to the water ingress  based on where the water staining  was 
inside the property as the staining was substantially  below the location  of the parapet 
wall.
The water  staining at Mr Bs property  was not in the same  area and it was directly below 
the flashing and membrane detail and the repair here would correctly be to address the 
issue with the flashing/membrane in that area.
I think it reasonable to rely on the expert assessment that the main difference  between  the 
two areas  of damage  at the two properties  is related in the neighbours case to the cavity  
trays. NHBC  has confirmed to us that the costs relating to the cavity  trays would have 
brought it over the MCV.
Mr B has pointed  out the letter from his home  insurers  surveyor  where she said: Given
the pattern  of the water on the ceiling, the roof could have  failed causing  water to breach the 
cavity.  We raised this with NHBC who has explained that theres no dispute  that water  is 
leaking into the cavity,  in Mr Bs case it says there  is no evidence to suggest the leak relates 
to the cavity trays (which is the damp  proof course that crosses the cavity).
So I think that overall NHBC has explained why the proposed  repairs  to Mr Bs and his 
neighbours properties are different, and why Mr Bs the cost of the repairs falls below the 
MCV. I understand the problem with Mr Bs property  is getting worse though that wouldnt be 
surprising given the length of time the area has needed repair. I can only suggest he gets 
the repairs done according to NHBCs assessment of the work needed, and if further 
problems are identified  he refer them back to NHBC. I should point out though it is Mr Bs 
responsibility under the policy to take all reasonable steps to reduce damage to his home, so 
he shouldnt expect NHBC to pay if the damage  becomes so bad from being neglected ath it 
brings the cost of repair over the MCV.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11056823
Ref: DRN1105682