K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he has been financing  through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS).
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BMWFS  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I note that BMWFS initially suggested  that this complaint had been the subject  of court  
proceedings and that, as a result, this service were no longer  able to consider its merits. Our 
investigator reviewed the courts decision but recognised that the court hadnt been asked to 
consider the quality of the vehicle  supplied. He therefore thought  we could review Mr Ws 
complaint. BMWFS didnt raise objections to his view and Id agree  with the investigator. Ive 
therefore gone on to consider the merits of this complaint.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr W. The car here 
was around two and a half years old and had completed about 16,000  miles.  
By the point of failure in May 2018  the car appears to have completed a total of 40,000  miles 
and it had been in Mr Ws possession for about  three years. But I dont think  a reasonable 
person would think it usual for a cam shaft or turbo to fail after such a short  time.  
Ref: DRN11440382Im persuaded that the cam shaft and turbo  failure  was probably developing when Mr W took 
receipt of the car because:
there had been a recall on the vehicle  that had not been attended to and I think  its 
reasonable to suggest that a recall of this type is an admission by the manufacturer  
that something may have been  wrong with the vehicle when supplied. 
the rectification  work referred  to in the recall notice would appear  to relate to issues 
that may lead to the type of problem Mr W reported in May 2018. The recall referred 
to the need to:
oreprogram the power  control module to protect your engine  from developing 
a fuel injector problem.
othe need to check  the sealing of the fuel injectors to prevent oil 
contamination. 
an email taken from BMWFSs contact  notes suggests that ultimately if the injectors 
have been leaking  prior to the recall then oil could have  been contaminated with fuel 
to cause these  issues. 
So, I think its most likely that Mr Ws car was affected by the issues  the recall notice referred  
to and that they were the most likely cause of the problems he experienced in May 2018.
Mr W took the car back to the dealership in May 2018 and doesnt appear to have driven  it 
after that date and before it was sold. So, he should  not be responsible  for paying  any 
finance instalments  on the car from May 2018 onwards as he had no use of it because  of a 
fault that was most probably  present,  or developing, at the point of supply.
But its only fair that Mr W pays for the use hes had from the car and, as Ive not seen 
compelling evidence  that the car experienced faults before May 2018,  I think BMWFS are 
being reasonable expecting payments up to that point, in return for the use Mr W has had 
from the vehicle.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
end the agreement if they havent already done  so
refund  any payments  Mr W may have made towards his agreement from, and 
including, May 2018. They should  add 8% simple interest per year to any refund  from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
remove any adverse credit file information subject to the account being  brought  up to 
date
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1144038