K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Admiral Insurance  Company Limiteds process in 
dealing with Mr S Subject  Access Request  (SAR) under Mrs S motor  insurance policy was 
wrong. They consequently believe more compensation is warranted. 
background
Mr S said Admiral failed in its dealing of the renewal of his Mrs S policy  on which  he was a 
named driver. He raised his concerns with Admiral.  He was primarily concerned that its 
communications over the renewal had been  sent to the wrong address, it failed to update the 
change of name of Mrs S upon her marriage to Mr S and it provided conflicting information  
concerning the amount of the renewal quote.  
Mr S also asked Admiral for a SAR, as he wanted  a copy  of the call recordings. He said that 
despite Admiral having  coherently identified him, as it dealt with him both on the phone and 
in writing, it then asked for onerous further  proof  of his identity before it would deal with his 
SAR. He believed  Admirals process in dealing with this was wrong. He took this to the 
Information Commissioner (ICO) who agreed  with him.
Admiral paid Mr and Mrs S compensation totalling £188.55, broken down as follows:
£100 compensation for the issues concerning  the renewal;
£50 for its delay in paying this compensation;
£10 to cover Mr S call costs;
£25.55 was removed from the renewal premium amount.
Mr S said none of that compensated  him for Admirals service  failings in relation to asking 
him for unnecessary proof of his identity when  he made his SAR request.
Admiral was of the view his complaint had been  adequately dealt with but Mr S didnt  agree  
and brought his complaint  to us. The investigator  upheld it saying he thought Admiral should 
pay a further £100  compensation. Neither  Admiral nor Mr and Mrs S agreed. Admiral thought 
it was too much and Mr and Mrs S didnt think it was enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
All this service and I can look at it is the consequence of Admirals lack of service to Mr S 
and not its compliance  or otherwise with data protection regulations,  which was rightly  
referred to and decided by the ICO. But its clear that Admiral imposed the wrong process on 
Mr S when he asked for a SAR as this has been  confirmed by the ICO. Its also clear to me 
that the compensation already paid to Mr S from Admiral doesnt concern its service  failings 
in relation to his request  for a SAR.
Mr S said this caused him a considerable amount of distress and inconvenience. Hes of the 
view therefore the compensation should  be in the substantial category, based  on the time its 
taken him to deal with it all and the stress and anxiety this caused him and his Mrs S. I note 
in the transcript  Mr S forwarded  to us of his initial enquiries with the ICO that he deals with 
Ref: DRN16874802data protection  as part of his job. So unlike most ordinary consumers, Mr S has specialised  
knowledge of data protection generally  and indeed the newer  GDPR  regulations.
Therefore, Im of the view the further  £100 compensation as suggested by the investigator is 
reasonable. As the investigator already explained, this service  doesnt penalise or fine 
businesses like Admiral when they have done  something wrong, we merely compensate for 
distress or inconvenience caused. Here Admiral did do something wrong in its request to 
Mr S of onerous identity  proof when Mr S asked for a SAR but in these  circumstances of 
Mr S experience of such matters, I consider that £100 compensation is adequate.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Admiral  Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S the further sum of £100 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1687480