K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited handled his claim under his 
motor policy  following an accident.
background
Mr T was involved in an accident in July 2018. The police told him not to drive  his car. He 
reported it to esure who also said it would send  a recovery  agent to remove his car. This 
never happened. He had to organise the recovery of his car himself.  
Mr T then said he wasnt provided with a courtesy  car or kept updated  about  his claim and 
sorting out his car. And he said he was very distressed to be informed he was suspected  of 
being fraudulent.  Lastly, he said he also received  threatening  letters.  
So he complained to esure. Esure  apologised to Mr T for failing to recover  his car from the 
accident scene  and said it would reimburse him the cost of this on proof  of the costs  and 
provided those costs were  reasonable. It didnt  think it had failed to keep him updated about 
his claim because it had difficulties in making  contact with him, as it said Mr T never 
responded to its communications. It didnt think its letters were threatening but since it 
couldnt make contact with him, it had to provide with time limits for him to get in touch  with 
it. It said its fraud prevention notice  was sent to all its customers making claim,  so it wasnt  
solely targeted at Mr T.
Esure also said Mr T was initially unwilling for its agents to take his car away  for examination  
of the damage  and to value it. Esure said it then asked Mr T to send over photographs  of his 
car. It said it never  received these so it couldnt progress any claim for his car.
However, esure also apologised that it failed to recognise that Mr T only wanted to make  a 
claim against the other drivers insurers and not make a claim under his own policy.
On this basis, esure paid Mr T £150  compensation. Mr T wasnt satisfied with this and so he 
brought his complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view that because esure didnt take on board that Mr T only 
really wanted to claim against the other drivers  insurers, it should  pay him a further  £100  
compensation. Esure didnt agree so Mr Ts complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Its clear given esures acknowledgement that its service to Mr T following his accident 
wasnt good enough. Obviously when anyone has been involved in a road traffic accident, 
its stressful and concerning. Therefore, I consider its appropriate that coherent  information 
is given by the insurer to its policyholder during the first notification  call, if at all possible.
Esure acknowledges its call handler made several  mistakes  most especially in confirming Mr 
Ts car would be recovered  and then simply failing to organise that. But having listened  to 
the call, I consider she didnt explain things properly to Mr T. Its clear  Mr T didnt that time 
have the details of the other  driver,  but theres no discussion about what Mr T needed to do 
Ref: DRN16018232if he was only going claim via her insurers and not esure. Or how instead to simply make a 
claim on his own policy and let esure  manage everything and what  that might  mean  for Mr T. 
As against this Mr T was very clear  he did only want to claim against the other  driver.  And 
its also clear in his later emails that he didnt understand  the process
Therefore, I dont think its unreasonable to award Mr T a total compensation payment of 
£250 for these  failings  including  the fact that esure simply never recovered his car, despite 
its assurances that it would do so. Its in line with other awards  I have made in similar cases.
For the avoidance of any doubt  I dont think esures correspondence with Mr T was 
threatening. I do agree it was having difficulties trying to make contact with Mr T and that 
consequently the tone of its communications wasnt unreasonable.  I also dont agree it was 
accusing Mr T of being fraudulent and that its fraud prevention notice was simply for 
information only. 
Mr T has now sold his car and said that hes suffered injury  from the accident.  Its also clear 
from the contents of the initial phone call that Mr Ts car was likely to be considered a total 
loss. In those circumstances Mr T wasnt entitled  to a courtesy car under his policy. Esure  
has confirmed that if Mr T want to pursue his claim, he will need  to make contact with its 
claim department and that any settlement  by it (as against the other drivers insurers)  will be 
subject to the excess of £250. Also, as the car is now sold there would be a salvage  
retention fee applied to any settlement on that. I consider this to be reasonable.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require esure  Insurance Limited  to do the following:
Pay Mr T a further £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1601823