K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS)  failed to allow  him 
time to carry out repairs before handing  back his car.
Background
Mr M acquired a car which was funded  by a hire purchase agreement. This came to an end 
in late February 2018. He returned the car to the dealer after having it professionally  valeted 
and it was collected several weeks  later by an agent acting for VFS. Mr M had fitted winter  
tyres and had done some 10,000 mile less than he had been allowed in his contract. He also 
had the car professionally  cleaned before leaving it with the dealer.
The car was inspected on 27 March and collected on 5 April. The agent identified  several  
areas of damage  and in mid April VFS notified  Mr M that he owed £297.36. Mr M disputed  
this and said that he hadnt  been  allowed to repair the damage himself.  VFS rejected his 
complaint and he brought the matter to this service.  It was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He noted the procedure  VFS operated for the return of hire purchase cars and also that Mr 
M had left the car at the dealers premises. VFS had explained  that Mr M remained  
responsible for the car while it was left with the dealer. Our adjudicator concluded that it 
wasnt the dealers  responsibility  to inspect the car and since Mr M wasnt present at the 
inspection he hadnt been able to address  any faults found by the inspector.
He also reviewed the damage  report and concluded that the damage  fell outside fair wear  
and tear as defined  by the British  Vehicle  Leasing  and Rental Association (BVRLA)  
guidelines. One area had been scratched by Mr Ms dog and another had been  poorly  
repaired. The third was damage to a quarter panel  which required blending.
Mr M didnt  agree and said he had been  told he would be contacted by the agent to arrange  
an appointment for inspection and collection. It hadnt done  so and he had been  deprived of 
the opportunity  to carry out any remedial work needed.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate the points put forward by Mr M I dont consider I can uphold his complaint. 
I will explain  why.
VFS outsources  the inspection  and collection of cars to a third party. It followed the 
procedures set down  by VFS. However, it didnt contact Mr M about the inspection  or 
collection of the car as he had left it with another third party,  the dealer. If he had kept the 
car at his house  then the agent would have contacted  him to arrange the inspection. But as 
he had, in effect, handed over the car to the dealer then it was sensible of the agent to make 
the necessary  arrangements  with the dealer.
As Mr M had chosen to leave the car with the dealer, then it was up to him to ensure he was 
told about the inspection and to arrange  to be present  if he so wished. I can understand that 
Mr M may well have  considered the dealer to be part of VFS, but it is a separate  business 
Ref: DRN14721462and it was simply holding  the car on his behalf  until it was inspected and collected. Mr M 
remained responsible  for it while it was being stored by the dealer.
In any event VFS required any repairs to be carried out by an approved repairer  and I doubt 
that the necessary work would have cost any les than Mr M was charged. I appreciate he 
has indicated he could  have done  the work  himself or had it done more cheaply,  but I doubt  
that would  have met the standards set by VFS and so he may well have ended up incurring 
additional expenditure.
I have looked  at report and find myself in agreement that the damage fell out side fair wear 
and tear as set out the BVRLA guidelines  and so Mr M is responsible  for the costs  of the 
repairs required. I have  noted that he did fewer miles than the agreement permitted and had 
put winter tyres on it, but the agreement he signed  doesnt allow  a credit for either of these. 
As such I can see no basis  for upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
13 March 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1472146