K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs R bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs R for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £250 a month towards Mrs Rs mortgage  
balance and other mortgage  related expenses in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  
it cost £12.65 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs R was employed  as a catering assistant. She has told us she was entitled to 
at least three  months full pay, she would receive  a death in service benefit and she had 
savings that were equal at least three  months  salary. She also says she would have been 
entitled to redundancy pay. Mrs R has said she was in good  health at the time of the sale. 
Halifax records show Mrs R made  a successful  claim on the policy in 2005.
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in January 2008. 
Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Rs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs R about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs R and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN15869382The information Mrs R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in January 2008. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN15869383I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Rs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs R and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN15869384did Mrs R know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application  form completed at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there is a box in which to sign if the PPI is 
required. I can see that Mrs R has signed  in this section to confirm  she wanted  to take out 
the PPI. If she didnt want to take out the cover, she could  have  left this section blank.
Ive also seen that a separate  PPI application  form was completed.  This detailed  information 
such as the monthly  benefit and the cost of the premium, along with recording responses to 
some questions about her employment  and health.  
Mrs R has told us that the advisor made  it sound like there would be a problem if she didnt 
take out the cover and she has said she felt rushed and pressured into making  a decision 
about taking the PPI. I cant  know with certainty  what Mrs R was told when she was sold the 
PPI and I accept she may have  felt pressured.  But I havent found any other evidence to 
support that she was told by Halifax that there could be a problem with her application if she 
didnt take out the PPI.
In the PPI section  of the mortgage  application  form it asks Mrs R to consider taking out the 
insurance. And the form required  a signature  only if the applicant would like to take 
advantage of this cover  this isnt what I would  expect  to see if the PPI was a condition  of 
the lending. And as the application for the PPI was a separate  document to the main 
mortgage, I think Mrs R would have  known she didnt have to take out the PPI in order  to 
have her mortgage application  accepted.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs R knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mrs R agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs R with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
Looking at the PPI application form which was completed, it would suggest Halifax took 
some steps  to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs R. On 
the form it asks some  information  about her employment status  and if she had any medical 
conditions. The adviser would have had some  limited information about  Mrs Rs financial 
circumstances from the mortgage application,  but there is no specific  evidence  to show the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mrs R had a need for the policy   by asking 
questions about  her wider  circumstances  such  as existing means. So I dont think it did 
enough to ensure the PPI was suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs R given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN15869385While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs R had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Rs ability  to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay entitlements,  
redundancy benefits she says she would have been  entitled to and savings that she 
had.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs R.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs R. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Rs employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Rs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs R was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs R was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment),  of the approximate costs  
and monthly benefit.  I have reached this conclusion  because the mortgage application 
described the cover as Accident,  sickness  and unemployment insurance and the separate 
PPI application  included information about the premium and monthly benefit.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs R agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs R Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs R all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN15869386In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs R has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs R? To what extent did Mrs R 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs R. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs R 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs R 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs R, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs R would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs R says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs R had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
Ref: DRN15869387product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Rs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs R was given about the cost and the 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs R thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mrs R knew  about or ought  to have known about  or for which she had received 
advice, treatment or counselling in the 12 months before the start date of the policy 
and that recurred  within 24 months of that date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs R be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs R pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs R from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs R was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs R wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions   Mrs R didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs R might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs R 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs R, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
Ref: DRN15869388If Mrs R had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar job or any paid work which, in the insurers  view, her experience, education 
or training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about  what 
she would  have done. And I accept it may have  given her pause  for thought   although its 
possible she may not have been  overly concerned given that if Mrs R was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs R that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs R would have received full sick pay for and her 
redundancy entitlement would also be significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs R would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mrs Rs sick pay or redundancy money  for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs R was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs R 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs R would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs R 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN15869389proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs R in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs R compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs R thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs R, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs R and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs R in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN158693810my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1586938