K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS) 
applied at the end of his Hire Purchase  Agreement. He doesnt feel these are fair and would 
like them refunded.
background
Mr F says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with MBFS in September 2015. He says 
the agreement  ended  in September 2018.  
Mr F says MBFS  applied  a number of end of contract charges that he feels  are unfair. Firstly  
it charged for extra days of rental as the car wasnt returned by the end of contract date. Mr 
R says the car was late being collected  as MBFS didnt contact him to arrange  this despite 
him chasing this up.
Secondly he says he was charged for a service.  But he says the service  was only due as the 
collection was late
Finally he says damage to the car which  MBFS  charged him for happened after her returned 
the car.
MBFS said its collection partner tried on numerous  occasions to contact Mr F to arrange 
inspection and collection of his car but was unable to contact him. Eventually it repossessed 
the car.  It referred to the terms  and conditions of the finance agreement  Mr F signed which 
stated he had to return the car at the end of the contract.
Its charges for damages were in line with British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing  Guidelines 
(BVRLA) but it did waive some of its charges. It also offered to reduce the damage element 
of the charges by 25% .And said this offer was still open to Mr F.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found evidence that the collection partner 
had tried to call Mr F five times and had been unable to contact  him. So she found the 
charge of £347.47 for 37 days additional rental  was fair.
She found the due service date was before the end of Mr Fs contract. So she didnt feel the 
delay in the car impacted  on this. And that it was fair for MBFS to charge for a missed  
service.
Finally she considered all of the damages charged for checking  the individual charges 
against BVRLA guidelines. She felt that one charge of £85 for scuffing on one wheel should 
be removed as she didnt  feel it exceeded  the 50mm BVRLA  guideline. Also that the charge 
for the missing V5c document  - £25 should be waived  since  this was noted on the collection 
report as being  present.
MBFS accepted this view but Mr F didnt.
Mr F said he disputed  the fact the collection agent had tried to call him and asked which  
telephone numbers it had used. He also asked for copies of phone calls with MBFS and the 
company that took the car away to be listened to by our adjudicator.
Ref: DRN11031582And he pointed out the discrepancy  between  the collection report and the bill for damages 
he received
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change her view. She confirmed the 
collection agent had both mobile and landline numbers for Mr F. she was satisfied from the 
evidence provided  that calls had been  made.
With regard to charges  for damage  to the car  the  collection receipt  stated that it wasnt  a full 
wear and tear assessment just a general indication  of the condition  of the car. So she didnt 
feel it was unreasonable that MBFS carried out a full assessment when the car was returned  
and applied  the charges  for damage  that it did.
Mr F didnt  accept this second view.  He asked for an Ombudsmans final decision and asked 
for copies  of calls he had made to MBFS and calls from the collection agent that recovered 
the car getting  in touch to arrange collection and from himself to say this was the first time he 
had been contacted about collecting the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has raised  a number of issues for me to look at.  These are the charge for extra days 
hire the charge for damage and the charge  for a missed service.
In terms of the extra days rental Mr F says he chased up a collection date with MBFS 
several times. So he doesnt believe  he is responsible  for the car being  collected late. He 
has suggested we listen to phone calls to support this.
We asked MBFS  for copies of any phone  calls. It only found one; this was a call on 6 
September 2018. I have listened to that call. Mr B asks when his contract  is due to end  this 
is confirmed as on 24 September  2018 and about the process for returning the car. MBFS 
says it will pass  his details onto its collection agent to be in touch. Its made clear to Mr F 
that the agent will contact him.
From this phone call its clear Mr F would have then known when his contract was due to 
end. MBFS has given  details of its collection agents call logs to show it tried numerous times 
to contact Mr F but was unable to get through  to him. From this its clear  the collection agent 
tried five times to contact Mr F. However  the first attempt was on 25 September 2018 the 
day after Mr Fs contract ended.
We have checked  with MBFS as to how the collection  process  works. As the collection agent  
only seemed to have  contacted Mr F after the end of his contract. I wanted to understand 
how that impacted  on the extra days rental.
MBFS has clarified firstly that its agent first contacted  Mr F the day after his contract ended.  
It has explained that is its usual process.  It accepted a point  I made that it wasnt 
unreasonable for a consumer not to be readily  available the first time the collection agent 
called. So there might reasonably be a delay in collecting a car.
Ref: DRN11031583From what  I understand any short delay  in recovering a vehicle wouldnt lead to any extra   
rental charges. But in this case MBFS has shown that the collection agent  tried to contact Mr 
F five times but was unable to contact him. 
MBFS explained that it charged  for all the extra days rental since it was unable  to contact Mr 
F to collect the car. Eventually it had to uplift the car.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for MBFS to charge for the extra  days  rental. Its clear from 
the phone  call Mr F knew when the contract  was due to end. I believe the collection agent 
made reasonable attempts to contact Mr F to arrange collection but wasnt  able to do so. 
And finally MBFS had to uplift the car as it couldnt  contact Mr F. And during this time Mr F 
continued to have use of the car.
With regard to the charges for damage  our adjudicator  listed  all of these in detail in her view 
so I am not going to repeat that here.  I appreciate that the full damage assessment wasnt 
noted on the collection note. But I am satisfied that note makes it clear it isnt a full 
inspection. So I dont  find it unreasonable, or surprising, that a full assessment was later 
carried out that identified specific areas of damage that fell outside  of accepted wear and 
tear.
I have however looked at these charges and the relevant BVRLA guidance and I agree with 
our adjudicators assessment that all the charges are fair with the exception  of one charge 
for scuff marks. The evidence for that isnt entirely  clear to me from the photos but MBFS 
has agreed to waive  the £85 charge  so I see no reason to consider that any further,
I also agree  with our adjudicators point that it would be unreasonable  to charge for a 
missing document  (V5) when this was noted as present on collection. That implies to me the 
document was lost somewhere in transit and it wouldnt be reasonable to make Mr F liable 
for that. MBFS has agreed  to waive the £25 charge for that and I think that is fair.
In terms of the missed  service. as that was due before the actual end date of the contract its 
clear to me that Mr F should  have  had that service  completed but didnt do so. I can see 
from the email trail that Mr F sent us that MBFS emailed him on 8 August 2018  to remind  
him the service was due. Mr F has told us MBFS told him he wouldnt need to have the 
service done but he hasnt given us any evidence of this. The email  trail also shows  Mr F 
booked the car in for two previous services  so he would have known annual  inspections 
were due and when.
On this basis I think Mr F was aware  a service was due, the delayed collection date had no 
impact on this.  So I think its entirely reasonable for MBFS to charge  for that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement  Mercedes  Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  should  waive  one 
charge for damage of £85 and the charge for the missing V5 document of £25.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Ref: DRN11031584Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1103158