K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained about how U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) used his financial information
when administering  his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr C didnt want UKI to retain  his credit or debit card details. He complained  to UKI that they
failed to comply with that request, gave  him confusing information  about it, and didnt reply to
some letters and emails. He wanted them  to confirm that theyd deleted his data, and to 
change their practice about  such data.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought  that
UKI hadnt acted  unreasonably. Mr C didnt agree, and so his complaint was passed to
me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on the case  on 1 November  2018. I said that I intended to 
partly uphold his complaint. Both UKI and Mr C commented on my provisional decision,  and 
I deal with their comments below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows. We know  that under data protection  legislation  
insurers can retain and process data where necessary for certain permitted purposes,  but 
that it should not be excessive. However we dont decide if theres been a breach of data 
protection legislation, as thats a matter  for the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO).  
Our role is to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case - taking 
into account any relevant  law and guidance. So although  Mr C had asked us a number of 
questions about  legislation and rules governing the use of the data, I explained in my 
provisional decision that I didnt intend to go into detail about  those. However  I explained that 
we could consider  whether UKI treated Mr C fairly and reasonably when dealing with his 
complaint about  their use of his credit card information. I thought  that UKI should  be able to 
clearly explain to him whether they did keep  his credit card information and, if so, why.
It was not in dispute that Mr C had asked UKI not to retain his credit  card details. He told us 
that this was because hed previously  been a victim  of credit  card fraud (- though not with 
UKI) and he didnt want it to happen again. 
Mr C seems to have  interpreted my provisional  decision  as stating that Mr C had not been a 
victim of fraud  in the UK. But in my provisional decision I didnt comment on the geographic 
location of any fraud.  I dont think the location of any fraud Mr C might  have experienced is 
material to my decision anyway. What is material, and what I took into account, is that Mr C 
told us that hed experienced credit card fraud  and so was concerned about who had his 
card details. Thats why he didnt want UKI to hold onto those details.
The investigator considered that it was fair of UKI to retain the last 4 digits  of Mr Cs credit  
card information because,  broadly,  it was for the purposes of administering his insurance 
and its use wasnt excessive. So he didnt think that UKI had done anything  wrong.  Mr C was 
still unhappy about that, and about UKIs poor communication.
Ref: DRN14987102I could see, and hear from recordings  of Mr Cs calls with UKI, that over time UKI had either 
not replied to his requests or had given him different answers  about  whether they kept his 
credit card information and why. These  included that UKI did keep the information,  for anti-
money laundering reasons, or to meet other regulatory requirements, or in case  they had to 
give him a refund.
They also said that they didnt retain all of the card information,  just the last 4 digits.
However, alternatively, they said that they did retain  all of the credit card information, but 
only the last 4 digits were  visible to certain  staff. On another occasion UKI said that they 
didnt keep any credit  card information at all, and offered Mr C £50 in compensation for 
mistakenly saying that they did. In one policy renewal call, when Mr C asked UKI again not 
to retain  his card details,  UKI promised  to delete  them. However UKI later told us again that 
they didnt hold any credit  card information for Mr C and sent us a screenshot purportedly 
proving this. But Mr C said that on a subsequent  renewal of his policy that UKI did still have 
his credit card details.
So I didnt think that UKI had treated  Mr C fair and reasonably. Mr C pays his premium
annually, so I didnt  think that it was fair for UKI to retain all or any of his credit  card data 
when they couldnt give any definitive reason  why that should  be necessary. And, as theyd 
given him such different  and contradictory information about the matter, I thought that their 
communication with him had been poor.  Theres no complaint that UKI have lost or misused 
his data, but I didnt  think  that they had clearly answered his questions or allayed his 
concerns about  this. Theyre reasonable concerns  because he told us he had been  the 
victim of fraud  before  and he understandably wants to mitigate  it happening  again and wants 
reassurance about  this. And I also thought  that UKIs dealing with his complaint has put him 
to time and inconvenience  and distress. And so I thought that UKI should pay Mr C 
compensation for that. I said that I intended to partly uphold Mr Cs complaint and require  U 
K Insurance  Limited  to remove Mr Cs credit  card data from their records  and confirm to him 
that theyd done that. I also intended to require UKI to pay Mr C £200 in compensation less 
£50 if UKI had already paid that to him, which was unclear at the time of my provisional 
decision.
Mr C and UKI both commented on my provisional  decision. Mr C did not comment  on the 
proposed compensation award  or on what I provisionally required UKI to do. But he wanted 
to know what I meant  when Id said that I intended  to partly uphold his complaint. He felt that 
I should either uphold it in full or not uphold it. However where a complaint has different 
elements this Service is able to uphold some elements and not others.  The element in my 
provisional decision that I didnt intend to uphold was Mr Cs complaint that UKI should be 
required to change their practice about credit card details retention.  
Ref: DRN14987103I can see that he remains unhappy that this service cant  require  businesses  such  as UKI to 
make it clear  to customers that they will retain card details on their data base and give the 
customer the option of declining  this. However,  as I explained  above, this Service cannot 
stipulate what practices a business should  adopt  about data retention or make  a decision 
that there  has been breach of date protection law. Thats because that is the role of the ICO. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I did intend to uphold  the remaining parts of Mr Cs complaint 
that UKIs  service had been poor and that they had not adequately explained to him if or why 
they retained his credit  card details. 
UKI responded to my provisional decision too. They said that they had no choice but to 
retain Mr Cs credit  card details and couldnt remove them  from their records.  They said 
Regrettably, that is not possible. UKI has to record  all transactions it makes,  including  
limited details of how it makes them. They also said that when a consumer pays  by credit 
card a record of the transaction,  including limited details of the card used, are retained for 
6 years.  This is unavoidable. UKI is legally obliged to record  the transactions it makes. 
UKI did accept that they hadnt  explained this to Mr C very well. I would agree with that. But 
they thought that the £50 theyd paid him to compensate him for that was enough. They  
thought that if Mr C had experienced distress  and inconvenience it wasnt  because of their 
actions, but because of their legal obligations . because  UKI is obliged to record  the 
transactions it makes  electronically with payment cards.  They  added  I think  if [Mr C] is 
unhappy with how electronic payment methods are used he avoids them  completely. I dont 
think a further award of compensation  will resolve his fears.
So UKI have now given their definitive  view that they are legally  obliged  to retain a 
consumers credit card details. I find it disappointing  that UKI still havent justified this by 
reference to the specific  legal requirement or requirements on which  they rely. Nor have  they 
made any suggestions about  what they might do to allay Mr Cs fears  about  use of his credit 
card information, such as by making  that information  restricted  or anonymised, or in some  
way assuring him that theyd protect it. I think it would have been reasonable for them  to 
have done this and I still think that they should  do this. However  they have at least come to a 
definitive position after the misinformation  and contradictory information that UKI have given 
him and us to date.  But clearly their claim to have a legal obligation to retain  credit  card 
details is likely to impact  on a consumers powers to request that a business delete or 
remove them.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  its not this Services role to make decisions about  
whether or not a business  is in breach of data protection legislation. It follows  that where a 
business claims that they are under a legal obligation to retain  data, this Service should not 
require them to do something which is potentially in breach of such  a requirement. And so I 
dont require UKI to remove Mr Cs credit card details from their records. Although  I do 
appreciate that he feels strongly about  this, I think that whether or not Mr C is entitled to 
require UKI to remove his data in these circumstances  is a matter for the ICO, and Mr C may 
wish to raise that with them now. 
However as regards whether UKI have acted fairly and reasonably towards  Mr C and as 
regards what compensation they should  pay him, I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision. I didnt  think that a provisional award  of compensation would resolve Mr Cs fears. 
Thats not the purpose of compensation. As I explained,  I think that an award of 
compensation is reasonable because UKI failed to adequately explain to Mr C at an early 
stage if and why they retained his credit card details. 
Ref: DRN14987104They also gave him and us contradictory  information over time, and I think that their actions 
caused Mr C distress  and inconvenience.  I think that £200 does fairly reflect that level of 
distress, but I said that payment should be less the £50 if UKI had paid him that £50 already. 
UKI say theyd paid Mr C the £50 in about November 2017. In Mr Cs reply  to my provisional 
decision, he said that £50 that was paid into his bank account in December 2017  andso  I 
am prepared  to accept  that this could be the £50:00 payments that UKI are referring to.
Taking all of the above into account, I partly uphold  this complaint in that I find that UKI have 
not acted fairly or reasonably as regards their information and advice to Mr C about their 
retention and use of his credit card details, and I require them  to compensate  him for that as 
above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision that I 
partly uphold Mr Cs complaint and I require  UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £200 in 
compensation, less the £50 which it appears  they have already paid him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them  Mr C 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If UKI consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr C how much they have taken off, and give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1498710