K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about a Total  Mortgage  Protection (TMP) insurance policy sold to 
them by Bank of Scotland plc. The policy included payment  protection insurance (PPI) and 
life insurance. Mr and Mrs A think the TMP was mis-sold to them.  
background
Mr and Mrs A took out the TMP policy with a further  advance on their mortgage in 2008. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The TMP policy only covered  Mr A.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because:
Mr and Mrs A wouldve completed  a separate application form for the TMP. And Bank  of 
Scotland has recorded the answers  they gave to questions about their circumstances 
and their health during that process. So, I think Bank  of Scotland  made  Mr and Mrs A 
aware that they had a choice about  buying the TMP policy, and that they chose to take it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the TMP  policy to Mr and Mrs A, and it seems to have 
been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time. Mr A had 
some sick pay through his work,  but the PPI part of the policy wouldve paid out on top of 
this if hed been off sick, for up to 12 months per claim. It also provided cover  in case  he 
was made redundant. 
While  Mr and Mrs A had some  endowment  policies, these were taken into account when 
Bank of Scotland recommended the level of life insurance cover. 
Its possible that Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it 
did. But even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs A would still have  bought it. This is because  the 
cost wasnt too high relative to the benefits  it provided. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
Mr and Mrs A dont  appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
The life insurance  had a decreasing term  which means the cover  reduced as the 
mortgage did. That was appropriate  given it was intended to pay off part of the mortgage  
if Mr A died.
While  the life insurance didnt cover  the full amount borrowed, it took account of the other 
cover Mr and Mrs A already  had in place. So, they werent over-insured. 
Ref: DRN14385182It could be said that Mr and Mrs A was underinsured because  there  was still a gap 
between the overall level of cover  across all their life and endowment policies and how 
much was owed on the mortgage. And the life insurance wouldnt have lasted as long as 
the mortgage term. But this has not caused  any financial loss to Mr and Mrs A  as more 
appropriate cover  wouldve cost more. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs As comments, including  what  theyve said about  
suffering from financial difficulties, poor health and difficult  living conditions. But these points 
dont change my conclusion. The evidence doesnt suggest that the TMP was mis-sold to 
them. I know theyll be disappointed with this, but I hope my explanation is clear and that 
their situation improves  soon. 
We can provide details of organisations that can provide free help and advice on dealing 
with debts. So, if Mr and Mrs A think that may be useful, they should let us know.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1438518