K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs S bought PPI at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in one of 
the banks branches. The policy  was in Mr Ss sole name and gave him protection against  
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings 
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the PPI was optional,  and they had to 
agree to take it out. When Mr and Mrs S applied for their mortgage the options to select or 
decline PPI were set out with equal  prominence. They  indicated  that they wanted  it and 
signed separately to confirm this. They then completed and signed a separate  PPI 
application form. Overall, I think they agreed  to take out PPI knowing they had a choice.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S and I think it seems to have been  right for him based
on what Ive seen. Mr S cant recall his sick pay entitlement but the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for all accident  and sickness claims. 
It also gave him redundancy protection for up to 12 months. Mrs S said they had savings of 
around £4,000,  but the PPI would have allowed them to use these for other living  costs  
whilst Mr S wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. Mr and Mrs S had 
borrowed quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home.  Given  how serious  
the effects of not keeping up with their mortgage  repayments could have been,  I think the 
PPI would have  been useful for them if Mr S was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I can see the cost was made  clear on the mortgage  quote and on the 
PPI application  form, and the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  But I 
dont know what Mr and Mrs S were told about  the main exclusions and limitations of the 
policy. However, Mr S doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  exclusions 
or limitations  (such as those affecting  people with pre-existing  medical  conditions  or on 
certain types of employment contract). Overall,  I dont think better  information wouldve  
changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because  of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN15331912Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1533191