K820x#14complaint
Ms W is unhappy  about the fees and charges shes incurred on an overdraft attached to her 
account with Barclays Bank Plc. She feels the charges were excessive and added  to her 
financial hardship. 
background
Ms W opened her Barclays account  with an overdraft facility in 2003. From around 2007, 
Ms W relied  on her overdraft more  and Barclays started to charge her for using it. She feels  
these charges were  unfair as she was getting  in more debt and at times  the charges were  
taking around a tenth  of her salary. Ms W also suffers from mental health issues, and so at 
times she ignored her financial  situation  because she found  it hard to cope. She feels  
Barclays have added  to her financial hardship by applying  the charges and would like a 
refund of all charges since 2007.
At first, Barclays said it would only let us look at charges from the last six years. And they 
said the charges  they applied to Ms Ws overdraft  were  fair and correct. But they did refund 
some charges as a gesture  of goodwill in 2007  and again in 2017. Barclays also said Ms W 
didnt tell them the extent of her financial hardship  or health problems. But once they 
became aware,  they offered to place a marker  on her account  to ensure its managed in the 
right way going forward. 
Once our adjudicator started reviewing  the complaint, Barclays  gave  us consent to look at all 
charges applied from 2007 to 2018.  Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She found 
the charges had been correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions, and she was 
satisfied Barclays kept Ms W informed about  the level of charges. Our adjudicator  also found 
that Barclays tried to find out more about how Ms W was managing her finances in 2011  
but she didnt  respond to them. Nonetheless, they refunded  some  of the charges applied as 
a goodwill gesture. 
Ms W didnt  agree. She said the adjudicator had got the goodwill refunds wrong, and while 
she recognised  the charges may have been  applied  correctly, she didnt  agree  they were  
affordable. Ms W also said she didnt respond  to Barclays in 2011 because  she couldnt face 
dealing with things  at the time due to her mental  health  issues.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, Ms Ws complaint has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I recognise this will disappoint Ms W so Ive 
explained my reasons  below.
The Supreme Court ruling in 2009  says that charges cant be challenged  on the basis theyre 
unfair or too high. They can only be challenged if theyve been  applied incorrectly, against 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Ms Ws bank account set out the charges Barclays can apply if 
Ms W uses the overdraft. Ive seen from the statements, Ms W used her overdraft regularly 
from around 2008  and therefore Barclays applied charges. Those charges are in line with 
Ref: DRN10836652the amounts Barclays were entitled to apply.  I appreciate Ms W feels  the charges  were 
excessive, but the terms on which the account  has been provided are clear so I dont think  
Barclays did anything wrong by applying the charges.
Ms W has said that she was suffering with her mental health, and in financial difficulties. 
Shes said at times the charges were around a tenth of her income, and therefore the 
charges added to her financial hardship.
I accept that Ms W was consistently  overdrawn and that Barclays  had a duty to treat her 
both positively and sympathetically if she was experiencing financial hardship and ill-health. 
But I cant see that Ms W ever addressed this issue with Barclays  directly,  despite their 
offers to help her. Ive seen at least two letters sent to Ms W in 2011  which  invited her to 
contact Barclays to discuss  any financial problems  she was having. I havent seen anything 
that suggests Ms W took Barclays  up on these offers. I appreciate she says she couldnt 
face it at the time because of her health,  and I dont doubt it has been a really difficult  time 
for her, but I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for not giving her support sooner. I say 
that because Ms W would have needed to tell Barclays if she was struggling   she didnt and 
so they wouldnt  have known anything was wrong.
I can see from the bank  statements that the account  was regularly overdrawn but that 
doesnt necessarily  mean  there were financial difficulties as customers manage their 
accounts in different ways. 
From what  Ive seen I cant see any evidence that Ms W raised  health  issues  prior to raising  
this complaint either. Im pleased to see that when Barclays were  made  aware of the extent 
of Ms Ws health and financial situation,  they offered to apply a marker to her account to 
ensure her account  is managed in the right way going forward. And Im pleased  Ms W 
agreed to this so she has the appropriate support from Barclays.
While Ive found the charges were applied correctly,  Ive thought about the refunds Barclays 
have given Ms W previously. I appreciate our adjudicator quoted  the amounts incorrectly in 
her view. Ive seen that Barclays offered  to refund Ms W around £1,500 of charges as a 
gesture of goodwill in March  2007   and she accepted this in June 2007 which  is when the 
amount was paid.  They  also refunded her around  £160 in September 2017. This isnt 
something they had to do  but Im pleased they did. And I hope their goodwill offer went 
some way to help Ms W at the time.
I know this isnt the decision Ms W was hoping for, but based on everything Ive seen,  I cant 
fairly say Barclays shouldnt have applied the charges or that they applied  them  incorrectly. 
While I appreciate the difficult situation  Ms W found herself in, banks arent always expected 
to waive  or refund charges.  Theyre expected  to treat customers in a positive  and 
sympathetic way and Im satisfied they tried to help Ms W but she didnt respond.  Im 
pleased theyve put a marker  in place going forward, and I hope Ms W feels  she will now be 
able to tell them if she finds herself struggling with her finances or health  in the future  so they 
can offer her the appropriate support. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN10836653Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1083665