K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained Barclays Bank  UK PLC were  negligent  in advancing her £16,500 in 
2006 and 2007. These  funds allowed her to pay for cash transactions and international 
money transfers which were a scam.
Mr H, Mrs Ms brother, holds a power of attorney for Mrs M and has brought  her complaint to 
the ombudsman  service.
background
After helping clear out Mrs Ms house  with family in late 2018, Mr H started to see Mrs M had 
carried out a lot of transactions vastly  out of the normal  during a three-year period from 2006 
to 2009. He noted this was funded in part by an advance Mrs M had got in August 2006  of 
£15,000 on one of her Barclays  accounts.  Mrs M also cashed in other savings policies and 
released more equity in her property (later in 2010).
Mr H raised his concerns  about what had happened with Barclays. Mrs M had held a number 
of accounts with them over the years. As this had happened more than six years before,  
Barclays said they were unable to look at this further. Mr H brought  his sisters  complaint to 
the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator felt Barclays  was right. The advance Mr H was complaining about mostly 
took place in 2006 so there was no doubt  this was more  than six years  ago. Similarly the 
scam transactions and whether Barclays should  have known about those and tackled Mrs M 
all take place before 2010. He felt more  than three  years had passed since Mrs M became 
aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that she had cause for complaint  as our 
rules required.
Mr H asked an ombudsman to review  whether this complaint was within jurisdiction.  He 
provided additional medical evidence  to show his sisters condition over an extended period. 
An ombudsman at the service completed  a provisional jurisdiction decision in November  
2019. She believed this evidence demonstrated there were exceptional circumstances 
behind Mrs M being  unable to bring  her complaint to our service. Both Barclays and Mr H 
accepted this outcome without a decision being  required.
There had, however, been  considerable time since the issues being complained about. 
Although Barclays could provide archived statements about  Mrs Ms accounts, they no 
longer held any customer notes from this time or any details of any affordability assessment 
theyd have carried out in 2006.  Mr H had compiled a detailed  spreadsheet and evidence 
which was shared with Barclays.
Having looked  at all the evidence our investigator  decided he couldnt  uphold the complaint. 
He couldnt tell for sure whether Barclays had raised  any concerns or not with Mrs M about 
the number of cash withdrawals she was making. And also it was unfortunately the case  we 
couldnt find out from Mrs M what her reasons were  for making these withdrawals and 
transfers.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to review Mrs Ms complaint. 
He was shocked that Barclays  had retained  so few records. He was convinced  theyd been 
negligent in looking  after Mrs Ms financial  affairs.
Ref: DRN15057752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. I have already been in touch with both Mr H and Barclays  to 
explain my thinking  on this case. Ive covered the three different aspects of this complaint 
having reviewed  all of Mr Hs detailed  evidence.
jurisdiction aspects
No mention was made of the power  of attorney  held by Mr H on Mrs Ms behalf since mid-
2012 in the provisional  jurisdiction decision completed by a colleague.  This should  have 
been taken into account as this re-set the clock  for when the eligible complainant could have  
known they had reason to complain.
Mr H has told me that he knew nothing of what had happened until late-2018.  I completely 
appreciate that and understand this situation. Unfortunately  this fact wouldnt be enough  to 
change what our rules say. However  I dont have to consider a decision on this aspect as 
Barclays accepted  what our ombudsman said back in November. This therefore provides us 
with authority to consider the complaint.
£15,000 advance
Mrs M took an advance of £15,000 in three  amounts in August 2006. She took a further 
advance of £1,500 in 2007. As our investigator explained, the guidelines and codes of 
practice around lending  were different  in 2006  than now.
Without information on how Barclays assessed the £15,000 advance  given to Mrs M, it 
would be unfair  to automatically  assume  they didnt consider the criteria around affordability 
at the time. Its also true Mrs M repaid this advance  either by cashing in other  savings or 
policies. Barclays would  have been  allowed to take into account Mrs Ms wider financial 
circumstances at the time. I wont be deciding the original advance  was unaffordable 
because the limited evidence we have  doesnt  show that to be the case.
account activity
Ive already confirmed  to Mr H there were few regulations in the mid-2000s  to say how banks 
should review their customers account  activity. I dont believe Mr H disputes his sister made 
all these transactions. His concern is that Barclays did so little to stop Mrs M from making  
regular cash withdrawals and a range of unusual transactions.
The problem is I cant be sure they didnt raise their concerns with her. Frauds and scams  
have been around for some time and consistently withdrawing cash would be part of a 
pattern which  banks may well have  identified. Banks  did pay attention  to customers 
withdrawing cash regularly. And I suspect  Mrs M went to the same  branch every time she 
was withdrawing  cash  so staff would have  been likely to know and recognise her.
It is possible that Barclays asked  her what was going on. From the nature of scams  like this, 
I suspect Mrs M may well have been schooled  to lie or provide some story  to explain what  
was going on. In those  days I suspect banks may well have backed off when provided with a 
convincing story.
Ref: DRN15057753That may well have  happened.  I absolutely  cant be sure because of the limited evidence 
available. It would be unfair to penalise Barclays for the lack of evidence  theyve been able 
to provide here. Particularly as one of the reasons  the Financial Conduct Authority places 
rules on what  complaints we can consider is because it is accepted  otherwise  financial 
institutions would need to retain customer information indefinitely.  And thats not required.
Im pretty sure Mrs M was the victim of a quite  horrible  scam but it wouldnt  be fair or 
reasonable to hold Barclays liable  for this now.
I appreciate how unfair Mr H believes this is. His whole attitude throughout this complaint 
has been completely  fair. He was never expecting Barclays to refund all the payments Mrs M 
made but rather to compensate for the additional  distress. I am sorry I cant ask Barclays to 
do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint against  
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on Mrs Ms 
behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1505775