K822xcomplaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited  - trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr B between December 
2016 and February  2017. A summary  of Mr Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidWeekly  
InstalmentsAmount Max 
Repayment
1 11/12/2016 19/07/2017 24 £100.00 £37.45
2 08/01/2017 18/08/2017 24 £350.00 £169.70
3 23/01/2017 18/08/2017 24 £150.00 £225.50
4 06/02/2017 19/07/2017 24 £50.00 £244.05
Mr Bs complaint was reviewed by two of our adjudicators. The first adjudicator  partly upheld  
the complaint  and thought  loan 4 shouldnt have been given as they thought Mr Bs 
borrowing was an indication that he wasnt managing his money. Sunny disagreed  and 
asked for an ombudsmans review. 
Whilst the complaint  was waiting for a decision, another  of our adjudicators reviewed the 
complaint again  but didnt think it should be upheld.  They thought that whilst Sunny should 
have done further checks, as it wasnt clear what those checks  would show,  they couldnt 
say Sunny was wrong to lend to Mr B. 
We didnt hear back from Mr B but as the complaint  was already waiting for an 
ombudsmans decision, it was passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
Ref: DRN13982742the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Both adjudicators didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans 1 to 3. Mr B didnt  respond  to 
either set of findings.  As there no longer appears  to be a dispute about these loans, I wont  
be making any further findings on them. This just leaves loan 4 for me to consider. 
Sunny has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving  any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr B about his employment status  and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £1,516.67.  He also declared his outgoings were 
£767. Sunny  says it also searched Mr Bs credit file. Ive seen a copy of the findings and 
there werent  any recent  adverse entries  like defaults or county court  judgements (CCJs) 
recorded on it at the time the loan was taken out.
Looking at loan 4 in isolation,  it could be argued  that a pattern was beginning to emerge 
which might  suggest Mr B was struggling  to repay his loans sustainably. Loan  4 was taken 
out when loans 1, 2 and 3 were still running. But the amount  he was borrowing had 
decreased significantly.
So, based  on what Sunny  would have  known at the time, I dont think at this point it would 
have been aware  that Mr B was using  the loans in an unsustainable  manner. 
The loan was Mr Bs fourth one with Sunny in two months, so I think  Sunny should have 
been looking  to build  a clearer picture than it did about Mr Bs finances before lending him 
this loan. Asking to see things such as his bank statements, or for copies of his payslips 
and/or bills. 
But, in saying this, Mr B hasnt provided this service with any information about his financial 
position at the time, such as bank statements or a credit file. So, without any further  
information, I can only conclude that while Sunnys checks  didnt  go far enough, I cant say 
an error has been made as I dont know whether it would have thought  the loan was 
affordable for Mr B. Therefore, I cant say Sunny was wrong to have provided Mr B with loan 
4. 
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Mr B, but I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion. I note that Sunny had made a goodwill 
gesture to write  off any outstanding balance it will now be up to Mr B to choose to accept  this 
offer or not. But I do not direct Sunny to make any specific  award. 
Ref: DRN13982743my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Bs complaint and make no award against Elevate Credit  International 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1398274