K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains Studio Retail Limited allowed fraud to happen on her catalogue shopping 
account. 
Mrs B also complains about customer service issues she experienced with Studio Retail  
Limited.
background
Mrs B complains about the following:
Fraud on Mrs Bs account
In early January  2018, Mrs B received notification that the email address on her catalogue 
shopping account had been changed. Mrs B contacted  Studio to explain this change  wasnt  
made by her. Mrs B was told at this point that no orders had been made and that there 
would be a block placed on the account until Studio looked into what  happened.
In mid-January 2018, Mrs B received a letter  confirming one of the items she ordered was no 
longer in stock  and that the amount  for this item would be credited to her account. It was at 
this point Mrs B realised that the block hadnt been  placed on her account. So, Mrs B 
contacted Studio again and they told her theyd put a note on her file. Mrs B says she asked 
for confirmation from Studio that they were looking into what  had happened. However, she 
says she didnt hear anything from them.
In March 2018, Mrs B says she received  a letter from Studio letting her know  a new account  
had been opened in her name. Mrs B says this had been done without her knowledge  or 
consent. Studio say they set up a new account  and Mrs Bs genuine account balance  was 
transferred over. They  say this was done  in line with their fraud closure processes as they 
found Mrs B had been a victim of fraud. Studio said this wouldnt have impacted Mrs Bs 
credit file or credit score.
Studio also said Mrs B was still required to make the minimum payment when the new 
account was set up and that they made Mrs B aware of this. As a gesture of goodwill, Studio 
said theyd refund three default sums on Mrs Bs account totalling £36. And they also offered 
her £100  compensation. Mrs B said she didnt receive a refund for the three default sums 
and she also didnt  accept  the £100  compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things and said it didnt appear Studio had put a block  on Mrs 
Bs account as they said they would   the fraudster  was able to still access  the account. He 
also said Studio hadnt  done  anything wrong in opening a new account for Mrs B and that 
there wasnt any evidence  to suggest that the opening of this account had impacted Mrs B 
negatively. So, whilst  it took Studio some  time to conclude their fraud  investigation and write 
to Mrs B, he thought Studio put Mrs B back in the financial  position she wouldve been  in had 
the fraud not happened.
Studio chasing  Mrs B for the outstanding amount  on the account
Mrs B says Studio continued to chase her for the outstanding amount on the account despite  
them carrying out a fraud investigation.  Mrs B says they shouldve placed the account on 
Ref: DRN13856992hold during the investigation. Mrs B doesnt  think its fair a default marker has been placed 
on her credit  file and that the account has been passed to a debt collector.
Our investigator said that whilst some  businesses may stop collection  activity during a 
complaint process,  theres no obligation on them doing so. Also, from the information 
available, Studio didnt charge any interest  on the outstanding balance  on Mrs Bs account 
from January 2018 to April 2018. As Studio concluded their fraud investigation in March  
2018, our investigator  didnt think Studio  had done  anything wrong in adding interest and 
charges to Mrs Bs account from May 2018 onwards. Our investigator thought Studios 
reporting of Mrs Bs account  was accurate, so he didnt think Studio  needed to do anything  
more.
Subject Access  Request  (SAR)
In September  2018, Mrs B says she made  a SAR to Studio for information they held about 
her. Mrs B says she received a response from Studio almost two months  after her request  
this response said they had not yet received Mrs Bs proof  of residency. Mrs B says this was 
the first letter  she received from Studio  and she hadnt received  a request for proof of 
residency before this.
In January 2019, Studio responded to Mrs Bs SAR and provided her with her information.  
Mrs B doesnt think Studio  have provided her with all of the information  she says the 
format of the notes  supplied  only show parts of the comments for each day/activity on the 
account. Studio confirmed  this is the only information available and they had nothing further 
to provide.
Our investigator said as Mrs B had previously referred her complaint about the SAR to the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO), theyd be better suited to look into anything  Mrs B 
didnt feel had been provided. Mrs B did this and has told us that Studio  havent carried out 
the recommendations put forward by the ICO.
Impact on Mrs B
Mrs B has said this was ongoing  for two years  which  has been  very stressful for her and has 
significantly impacted  her health.  Mrs B also says theres been an impact on her other credit 
accounts as a result of Studio opening  a new account for her. In addition to this, Mrs B feels  
things were made worse  by Studio not responding to her, not providing her with information 
shes requested and also taking some  time to investigate the fraud on the account.
As a way to resolve Mrs Bs concerns, shes asked Studio  to:
Provide all the information they hold on her account as per her SAR.
Remove any credit searches they carried out when  they opened the new account  in 
March 2018.
Remove the default and refund the default  charges.
Refund all interest  charges applied during the fraud investigation.
Write  to her letting her know how they are going to keep her information safe going 
forward.
Our investigator said having considered  everything Mrs B told us about the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused her, he thought £500  compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. He also said Studio should  pay Mrs B the £36 they offered for the default  
Ref: DRN13856993charges. But he didnt think Studio needed  to amend Mrs Bs credit file or reimburse  Mrs B 
any interest she may have incurred  on her other credit  cards.  
Studio agreed  with the investigators  recommendation.  But Mrs B didnt. She said Studio 
chased payments  for the outstanding amount for the whole time they were  investigating  the 
fraud, which she didnt  think was fair. Mrs B also said Studio hadnt been honest about  when 
they passed her account to a third-party debt collector and reiterated  that Studio  didnt  put 
the account on hold whilst  they carried out the fraud investigation. Mrs B reiterated the stress 
and anxiety this has caused her throughout the two years. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud on Mrs Bs account
Whilst both parties agree  that Mrs B was a victim of fraud, Mrs B doesnt think Studio 
handled things  very well. In particular, Studio told Mrs B that they would place a block  on her 
account. However, this didnt happen, and the fraudster  was able to access  the account  
again and place an order. Its disappointing  that this happened, and I can understand this 
wouldve caused Mrs B to worry. It seems the block wasnt placed on Mrs Bs account as a 
result of an error on Studios part. 
Studio said as Mrs Bs details were compromised, they set up a new account and transferred 
Mrs Bs genuine balance over. At this point, a new account number was produced for Mrs B 
and they sent Mrs B a letter confirming the new account  number. The letter  also explains 
that this will allow Mrs B to continue shopping with them and confirmed the terms and 
conditions for the account remained the same. Studio say this was in line with their fraud  
closure process. However, Mrs B was unhappy Studio chose to do this. As the fraudster had 
access to Mrs Bs original account, I think Studios decision to open a new account for Mrs B 
was fair to avoid further unauthorised orders. Ultimately,  there  was still a balance owing to 
Studio from Mrs Bs genuine purchases  which Mrs B wouldve needed  to pay back. 
However, I do think Studio couldve let Mrs B know in advance that this was what they were 
going to do so she was aware of their reasoning behind this decision.
Mrs B says the opening of the new account  impacted her credit file. Mrs B has said another  
business decided  to reduce her credit limit when reviewing the account she holds with them. 
Mrs B has provided us with a copy of an email from this business where theyve explained  
that upon review  of her account,  they had made the decision  to decrease her credit  limit. Mrs 
B says this was sent to her soon after the new account was set up by Studio.
I can appreciate this must have been frustrating  for Mrs B. However,  there are many  reasons 
why a business may decide to decrease a credit limit. And I can see in this particular email, 
the business have said they regularly review the account customers hold with them to 
ensure they dont borrow more than they can afford. And that this is done  using information 
on how the account has been managed as well as information given  to them  by a credit 
reference agency. So, having  thought about this carefully, I cant say for certain that the 
business decided  to decrease  Mrs Bs credit limit as a direct result  of Studios actions. 
Ref: DRN13856994Mrs B complains that Studio carried out a full credit search when  deciding  to open the new 
account for her. Some lenders carry out a hard  search  one that leaves a trace on a credit 
record and can impact  a credit score  while others  only carry out a soft search, which  
leaves no trace. Studio have confirmed that a soft search was carried out when the account  
was set up so it wouldnt  have impacted Mrs Bs credit score.  Studio have told us that Mrs 
Bs previous account, where the fraud occurred, was closed with a zero balance. So, I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that a full credit  search  was carried  out for the new 
account.
Mrs B doesnt think Studios security measures are robust enough as she says the fraudster 
was able to easily access her account.  Its not entirely clear how Mrs Bs account  was 
compromised, and it seems the fraudster had some  of Mrs Bs information,  such as her 
email address, to be able to access her Studio account. I can understand Mrs B wants  
reassurance that her data is safe and also wants the reassurance that this wont  happen 
again. And whilst  Studio  have said they continuously improve  and monitor online security, 
its not the role of this service to ensure  what security measures Studio have in place.
Studio chasing  Mrs B for the outstanding amount  on the account
When the new account was set up for Mrs B, her genuine outstanding  balance was 
transferred over. This didnt include  any transactions  made  by the fraudster.  So, Mrs B 
wouldve still been responsible for the outstanding amount. 
Ive looked at the accounts terms and conditions and can see they say interest may be 
charged in relation to missed or partly made payments. Ive looked at statements for the 
account and I can see interest wasnt charged  from January 2018 to April 2018  despite no 
payments made towards the outstanding  balance. Studio sent Mrs B arrears  letters  in June, 
July, August and a further two in September 2018  these letters told Mrs B she needed  to 
make payments towards  the account and confirmed the new account number rather than the 
old one. Studio also confirmed in a letter to Mrs B in August 2018 that her genuine balance 
was transferred to the new account.  However, I cant  see any payments were made. 
I can see from Studios internal contact notes that Mrs B continued to communicate with 
them in July and August  2018 about her concerns over the account  and its security.  
However, not all lenders  will put an account on hold whilst theyre  looking into a customers  
complaint. So, whilst Mrs B may not have felt matters with her account had been resolved, I 
dont think Studio did anything wrong in letting Mrs B know  her account was in arrears. And 
asking for her to make payments towards the account. I say this because I think she knew  
the outstanding balance  on the new account  was hers as she had previously questioned the 
item which had been ordered by the fraudster on the old account. 
Mrs B is unhappy that the account  has been defaulted and also that its been passed  to a 
third-party debt collector. As Mrs B didnt  make payments towards  the account for at least  
four months, I think it was fair for Studio to default the account. And I can see from the 
information provided the account defaulted  on 14 October 2018. I appreciate Mrs B says she 
wasnt sure if she should  pay an account she hadnt  opened or authorised.  But as Ive 
explained, the new account  was opened  with Mrs Bs true outstanding balance   this was 
confirmed in Studios  letter of August 2018.  So, she was required to pay at least  the 
minimum payment under  the accounts terms and conditions, but Mrs B didnt do this. 
Having carefully thought  about this, I wont be asking Studio to remove the default.  
Ref: DRN13856995I note Studio have  agreed to refund Mrs B three default charges totalling  £36 but its not 
clear whether theyve  done this yet. So, I think its fair they refund the charges on the basis  
that this was what they said they were going  to do. In terms of passing  the debt on to a third 
party, its Studios  decision to do this. And I can see they made Mrs B aware of this 
possibility in one of their letters in September  2018  if she didnt pay off the balance. So, I 
dont think Studio have  done anything wrong.
Mrs B says Studio havent been honest about  when  they passed her account to the debt 
collector. She says they told her the debt was handed over in November 2018 and her credit  
file shows this happened in October  2018. I can see from the information provided that the 
account was defaulted on 14 October 2018   which is the date Mrs B refers to. And the 
internal screenshot Studio sent shows the debt was sold to the debt collectors on 23 
November 2018.  
I know Mrs B has had some concerns about  how the default has appeared on her credit  file 
with one particular  credit reference agency as she says it shows two defaulted accounts, 
rather than one. The credit reference  agency  has confirmed that this appears correctly  on 
Mrs Bs credit  file - the original debt shows as being passed to the third party  debt collectors 
and this is how it would appear to any future lenders. So, I wont  be asking Studio to do 
anything further  in relation to this.
Subject Access  Request  (SAR)
Mrs B took this part of her complaint to the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO).  And I 
note the ICO made several findings  about  the information provided under the SAR. The ICO 
also said they had asked Studio to review Mrs Bs SAR and check  that they have provided 
her with everything they hold. Since  then,  Mrs B has told us that Studio hasnt carried  out the 
ICOs recommendations. However,  our service isnt able to enforce Studio to carry out any 
recommendations the ICO may have put forward. So, this isnt something  we can help with. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about everything both Mrs B and Studio have told us. And I think  more could 
have been done to help Mrs B. She had the stress and worry of a fraudster  accessing  her 
account and then subsequently ordering items  on the account. Whilst the order was stopped,  
Studio didnt block the account like they said they would.  It was then down to Mrs B 
contacting Studio again to explain that an order was placed on the account. I think this would 
have caused further worry and stress to Mrs B to find out the fraudster still had access to her 
account and her details.
Mrs B also had to wait three months  for the fraud  investigation to conclude.  Mrs B didnt hear 
anything from Studio until she received a letter letting her know that a new account had been 
set up. And as Ive already explained,  whilst I think this was fair for Studio to do, I think  they 
couldve let Mrs B know in advance,  so she knew what to expect.
There were a few occasions where  Mrs B had written to Studio in relation to her account. But 
Studio didnt always get back to Mrs B. The times Mrs B did hear from Studio, she says she 
felt the letters were generic and didnt address her concerns.  Mrs B was clearly very worried 
about everything that was going on and I can understand why Mrs B was feeling  frustrated  at 
not hearing from Studio. Mrs B then appointed  a representative to communicate  with Studio 
on her behalf as she felt like she wasnt getting anywhere with Studio and this was causing 
Ref: DRN13856996her a great deal of stress.  But when the representative tried to contact Studio, they were 
refused the opportunity to speak to anyone at Studio. 
I understand there was some miscommunication  around Mrs Bs SAR and I cant  see any 
real reason  behind the delay in providing Mrs B with her information. So, I think  this caused  
further inconvenience to Mrs B at an already stressful  time.
Mrs B has told us about the worry and anxiety this issue has caused  her. In addition to this, 
Mrs B has experienced sleepless  nights  worrying  about the status  of her account and 
whether the fraudster would have been able to access  it again. Especially as Studio havent 
been able to tell Mrs B exactly how the fraudster was able to access her account. Mrs B has 
provided us with details about the impact  all of this has had on her health  and Im really  sorry 
to hear of the difficulty and stress this has caused Mrs B. 
Studio have already agreed  to pay Mrs B £500 compensation. And taking everything into 
account, I think this is fair compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. So, 
while I understand Mrs B will be disappointed, I wont  be recommending Studio to pay Mrs B 
more than this. 
I think it was fair for Studio to default the account when they did for the reasons Ive already  
explained, so I wont be asking them to remove this. However, Studio have said theyll 
refund the £36 for the default charges applied. And I think  they should  do this if they havent 
done so already.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I uphold  this complaint. And I require 
Studio Retail  Limited to:
Pay Mrs B £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Refund the default fees of £36 if they havent done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1385699