K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc didnt change his mortgage to a capital repayment 
one when he asked  them to, and that this took a number of years  to happen. He has also 
raised a number of concerns about  the service that they have provided to him.
background
In 2003, Mr M took out a mortgage originally with Alliance and Leicester (now  Santander)  on 
a capital repayment basis over a term of 15 years. He then took out two further loans, one in 
2004 for £6,100 and another one in 2006 for £28,000. These were taken out on a capital 
repayment basis and were to be paid over the remaining term of the mortgage.
Mr M wanted to change his mortgage from capital repayment to interest  only so he called 
Santander in May 2009 asking if this was possible.  He says he mentioned  to Santander that 
he would  like to change  his mortgage back to capital repayment or make  overpayments at a 
later date. Santander agreed to the change  and the mortgage changed  to interest  only from 
July 2009.
In March 2013, Mr M called Santander as he wanted  to find out what  the procedure  was 
when his mortgage was due to end in five years  time. Santander said they could go through  
the options with him and help re-arrange the mortgage. Mr M called again in June 2013  and 
Santander said they may be able to extend the mortgage term if he took out a new product.
In April 2016, Mr M enquired about changing the mortgage from interest only to repayment.  
He told Santander  that he was employed  and received  a weekly  salary.  Santander  asked 
Mr M to find out about a credit commitment he had and to get back to them.  
Mr M called Santander again  in December  2016 to change his mortgage to capital 
repayment and after asking some questions, Santander established that Mr M was 
self-employed as a sub-contractor.  Santander  said that they needed Mr M to provide two 
years evidence of his self-employed income.  This application didnt proceed  at this time.
In April 2017 Mr M spoke to Santander and he explained he was no longer working and 
Santander explained they could look into changing his mortgage  to capital repayment once 
he was working again.
In August  2017,  Mr M made  an application to change to a capital repayment mortgage over 
a longer term. It was noted at the time that Mr M was a sole trader for eight months so 
Santander asked  for further information which included a P60 in order  to show his 
employment before Mr M became self-employed. Mr M said he would try and find the P60 
but the application didnt  proceed any further.
In May 2018, Mr M said he had been  self-employed for one year and Santander asked for 
information about his income  and expenditure which he provided in June 2018. Santander 
then contacted Mr M for an accountants  certificate but Santander said some information  
was missing but then in July 2018,  it was submitted  again and was accepted by Santander. 
The application completed in September 2018.  Since then, Mr M has re-mortgaged with 
another lender and repaid his Santander  mortgage in full  in February 2019.
Ref: DRN16976422Mr M wasnt happy with what Santander had said. He said he wanted to change  his 
mortgage to capital repayment but he said that Santander kept asking for various income  
information in order for them to see if it was possible, and he says  it took a long time to get 
this changed over. 
Because he was still unhappy, he brought the complaint to our service where it was looked 
at by one of our investigators. Our investigator was satisfied that Santander didnt do 
anything wrong  in how they dealt  with the switch  to capital repayment.  He also didnt  think 
that Santander had fallen  short on the service that they provided him  so he didnt  uphold  
the complaint.
Mr M disagreed with what the investigator said. He said that Santander:
prevented him from getting his finances  in order
prevented him from choice in other  products
didnt give him the right to change his mortgage
failed in their contractual obligation
withheld basic consumer rights
they mismanaged  his account from 2009
they caused him financial difficulties
they caused him emotional stress
they increased his potential  future financial difficulties
they increased his potential  future emotional  stress
As he disagreed with the investigator  he asked the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman. So it has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mr M has said and I know  he feels very strongly  
about his complaint. He has made  additional detailed  comments  in support of his views 
which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  I am grateful for these detailed 
submissions. However, I trust that Mr M will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. It is to set 
out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
Ref: DRN16976423mortgage changes  to capital repayment
Mr M has said that he believes that Santander  misled him when he changed his mortgage  to 
interest only in 2009, because  he said they told him that he would be able to change it back  
to capital repayment at a later date if he wanted to. He says he wasnt  told that hed need  to 
make an application  to do so and he thought it would be a straightforward process.
I dont doubt that Mr M was led to believe, at the time, that he would be able to change his 
mortgage back to capital repayment  at a later date.  The rules and regulations have changed 
over the years and they have become stricter than they used  to be in terms of what was and 
now is required of a lender. This is why things would  have been more difficult for Mr M to 
make this change when he wanted to, some years later.  Those changes couldnt  have been 
known about at the time.
Because the rules are now much  stricter than they used to be, any material changes  to a 
mortgage will need to be considered carefully  by a lender before they allow changes to 
happen. Because Mr M was asking to change  from interest only to capital repayment, this 
would mean  that his monthly payments would increase  considerably so it would only be fair 
that a lender should consider that this was something that was affordable before allowing the 
change to take place. In this situation,  Santander wanted to make sure that Mr M would be 
able to afford the new monthly payments that would take effect. It wouldnt be in his best 
interests to make  the change if he couldnt.  I dont  think  this is unreasonable.
Its evident from looking at the notes provided  by Santander and the information  that Mr M 
has provided, that he asked for this change to happen on a number of occasions and had 
various discussions with Santander about it. From the notes, it suggests that Mr M couldnt 
provide all of his income information when it was asked for and at one point, they discussed 
possibly adding his wife onto the mortgage, but this application didnt proceed.
I have listened  to the telephone calls that Mr M had with Santander about wanting to change 
his mortgage to capital repayment, and I agree that Santander requested  some  information 
about his income.  Having  listened to these calls and having looked at the system  notes  that 
Santander have  provided, I dont think that the requests that Santander  made were 
unreasonable. I say this because Mr Ms employment changed a number of times and his 
income was derived from a number of sources.  So I can understand why Santander wanted 
to check this to make  sure that Mr M could afford the new monthly payments.
Santander also asked  Mr M to find out about  a credit  commitment  he had and to get back  to 
them. I appreciate  that this commitment may have only been for a small amount but I dont 
think Santander did anything wrong in asking  for this information. This formed part of their 
checks to ensure the requested change  would be affordable to Mr M.
When the final application was made in August 2018, Santander had obtained all of the 
information they needed and the accountants certificate that had all of the information 
required on it, for the application  to be successful. It doesnt look like this information  was 
made available to Santander  any earlier. This, along with his source  of income  changing on 
a number of occasions, appears to be why it took Mr M longer than he wanted to get the 
change to his mortgage. I cant hold Santander  responsible for this as it was fair for them  to 
want to check that Mr M could afford the change to capital  repayment.
Ref: DRN16976424In this case, Mr M wanted to make a significant  change to his mortgage which  would result  in 
his payments increasing. Santander wanted  to carry out an affordability  assessment to make 
sure that he could afford that increase. If he couldnt, this could have put him in a difficult  
financial situation further down the line. So I think  the checks Santander carried out were 
reasonable and in Mr Ms best interests.
I appreciate Mr M may not agree. But I wouldnt expect a lender to make  a significant 
change such as this, where it is increasing  the monthly cost, without first making sure that 
change is affordable. Mr Ms income was difficult to understand,  as it had changed  a number 
of times. I believe this is what led to a number of discussions and requests being made  not 
because Santander  had acted unfairly.
So while I appreciate that Mr M found this very frustrating,  Im satisfied that Santander acted 
reasonably and fairly in the way they dealt with him with the changes  he wanted  to make to 
his mortgage.
customer service   telephone call with Santander
Mr M is unhappy  with a telephone call that he had with one of Santanders advisers in 
August 2018.  Mr M says he feels that the adviser  was insinuating that it was his fault 
because he originally changed his mortgage to interest only.
Ive listened to this call but I cant  say that the adviser did anything intentionally to upset 
Mr M. The adviser could have maybe explained things a little bit better than he did but I dont 
think he was trying to blame Mr M for what had happened.  I think its fairer to say that the 
adviser was trying to provide information to Mr M about his mortgage, so I cant  agree that 
the adviser was unreasonable  in the way the telephone call was conducted.
Santanders offer
I have noted that Santander have made an offer of £150 to Mr M. This is because he was 
charged a fee of £150 when he redeemed his mortgage. They offered to:
pay Mr M £150 to represent the fee that he paid; plus
8% simple interest from the date of redemption to the date of settlement (minus tax) 
Mr M told our investigator that he doesnt want to accept this offer. If he should change  his 
mind, he should contact Santander and let them know, although there is no guarantee that 
this offer will still be available.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1697642