K820x#14Complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Metro Bank  PLC added a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System 
(CIFAS) marker against her name.  She says this has led to her having  her bank account 
closed. And she wants Metro to remove her CIFAS  marker. 
background
Ms C opened an account with Metro Bank  in 2017.  
In July and September 2017  two payments  were  made into Ms Cs account:
12 July 2017  £6,707.62
21 September 2017 £5,566.14
Soon after receiving the September  payment Metro received a SWIFT  notification  from 
another Bank, Ill call B, who said their customer didnt authorise the payments to Ms Cs 
account. Before  Metro could retrieve the funds just over £5,566.14 was transferred out of 
Ms Cs account to three payees via faster payments. As a consequence Metro  decided to 
close her account. 
Metro also thought Ms C had misused her account  so applied a CIFAS marker. Metro didnt 
ask Ms C any questions about  the payments into her account before making the decision to 
close the account and apply the CIFAS marker.
Ms C says that she only became aware  Metro had loaded the CIFAS marker  when another  
bank closed her account  in 2018. Ms C complained to Metro, asking for the CIFAS marker to 
be removed. Ms C told Metro:
shed been  approached by an acquaintance, Ill call A, at a gathering  which took 
place at her home address 
A advised hed give her money as part of a saving scheme for a house deposit. 
she gave A her Metro  sort code and account  number and he started  depositing 
money into her account
she withdrew this money  and saved it in her house
only when Metro  blocked her account  did she realise this might not be a legal 
scheme
she tried to contact A but couldnt  get hold of him  and because she was 
embarrassed she deleted his contact details and all messages from him
When Ms C complained to Metro  they responded to say that when they receive a report on 
fraud they have an obligation to act  and they thought the markers were added  fairly. 
Ms C wasnt  happy with Metros response  so complained to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Cs complaint and asked both Ms C and Metro 
further questions. 
Metro provided evidence that three  new payees were  set up on the 12 July 2017 prior to the 
first transfer of the fraudulent  funds on the same  day. On this day two faster payments were 
made to two of the new payees,  and an account to account transfer  was made  to the third. 
Ref: DRN18265352£2,400 was also withdrawn in cash.  Ms C had £0.16  in her account prior to the fraudulent  
funds being received on the 12 July 2017,  after these transactions  she had a balance  of 
£27.78. The same three payees were credited with faster payments after the fraudulent 
payment on the 21 September  2017.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint  having looked at the circumstances  of the 
events and the way in which the fraudulent payments were  used  he thought Metro had 
sufficient evidence to load the CIFAS marker.  
Ms C didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for her complaint to be passed 
for an ombudsman for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why below. 
Metro said it applied the CIFAS marker  because bank B said their customer didnt authorise 
the payments  made into Ms Cs account. So Ive looked at whether Metro was fair to apply 
the marker,  based  on the evidence it had and the investigation it carried  out and what the 
rules say about applying such markers. 
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of sufficient  depth  to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS,  which at that time was that Metro needed to have enough 
information to make a formal complaint  to the police or other relevant law enforcement 
agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed  cases  of fraud,  rather than mere 
suspicion. In addition, CIFAS guidance set out businesses  are expected  to retain the 
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.  
Having reviewed Ms Cs account of events and the evidence Metro have provided,  Im 
satisfied that Metro have sufficient  evidence  for the CIFAS marker to be recorded  on her file. 
In coming to this view,  Ive taken into account the following reasons:
Metro have provided evidence to show the inward payments received on the 
12 July 2017 and 21 September 2017  were  fraudulent
Ms C had an opportunity  once her Metro account was closed and she identified the 
scheme may not be legal  to return the fraudulent funds to Metro. But, as she told 
our investigator, she benefited from the funds  spending the money on car repairs
Ms C hasnt  provided evidence to demonstrate  any form of contact with A
Im satisfied  Ms Cs explanation  that her online banking  details  may have been 
obtained at her house during the party  is unlikely 
there were multiple online banking  log ins between  July and September 2017  and a 
high number immediately  prior to and after the fraudulent funds were deposited
Ms C hasnt  explained how her mobile phone was accessed to set up the new 
payees or the last 4 digits of her Metro debit card were  obtained  both of which 
were required  to set up new payees
Taking everything into account,  I find that Metro have met the burden of proof  required by 
CIFAS to add the marker.  So Im not going  to ask them to remove the CIFAS marker.  
Ref: DRN18265353my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1826535