K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont refund cash  withdrawals from her account  
that she says she didnt make.
background
Miss B contacted HSBC on 11 April 2018  to report that shed lost her bank card.  She says 
she discovered that there had been  cash withdrawals from 13 January to 10 April 2018  that 
she didnt recognise.  By the time she reported  things these totalled  over £6,700.  She said 
that shed never told anyone  her PIN and had only allowed her partner to make a contactless  
transaction using  her card in the past. Miss B says she didnt check the balance on her 
account during  this period  as she was busy and had some  hospital appointments.
HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding this money. The withdrawals  were made when  the chip 
on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered each time. The last genuine use 
of the card before the transactions  was on 12 January 2018 and it was a day before the first 
disputed one took place. There had also been genuine transactions using the card by Miss B 
in between these  disputed ones. Miss B said she had been in possession of the card and 
hadnt disclosed the PIN to anyone. So HSBC  thought she had authorised the withdrawals.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that he thought that 
as there  were over 40 disputed transactions it was likely Miss B would have  noticed  if her 
card had been taken  and replaced so many  times.  And he noted that there  were  no balance  
enquiries or sustained attempts  to use the maximum daily withdrawal allowance.
Miss B didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She felt like her partner was 
being accused of making  these withdrawals. And she said she was a light sleeper and would 
have noticed if hed gone out to make  the withdrawals  most of which were late at night. 
She said that she didnt  want to provide  any further  information about her complaint  to our 
investigator but wanted an ombudsman to review it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if these payments 
werent authorised  Miss B wouldnt generally  be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at her complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Miss B either  authorise the payments on the account, or allow  someone else to use 
the card?
Ive reviewed the information about  these payments provided by HSBC. I know  that Miss B 
believed that her card had been cloned. But Im satisfied that for each disputed  withdrawal 
the chip on the genuine card was read. There was only one incorrect PIN attempt on 18 
January 2018  but the correct PIN was entered seconds later. And each withdrawal  was 
Ref: DRN18062462made after the correct  PIN was entered. So Im satisfied  that the payments were 
authenticated and I need to decide  now whether Miss B consented to them.
Im going  to rule out as highly unlikely  an unknown third party taking  the card. I say this 
because the first use of the card came  over a day after the last genuine one when Miss B 
used her PIN. A fraudster somehow in possession of her card and PIN would be unlikely to 
wait that long before using the card and would also have tried to take out the maximum 
amount available - rather that the first disputed withdrawal of £20 and then the series of 
further withdrawals.
As our investigator has said Miss B used  the card for genuine payments during the period 
and so the card would have needed to be returned to her and then taken each time without 
her knowing.  I dont think an unknown third party  could have done that.
I know Miss B says she didnt disclose  her PIN to anyone close  to her. Shes upset  at any 
suggestion someone with regular access to her home including her partner could do this. 
And she didnt want to talk further to our investigator about this possibility. I take the view 
that it would  be difficult to think that even someone  close to her could  have taken her card 
and replaced it so many times. Some of the payments were at night as Miss B says but 
others were  during  the day and sometimes within an hour of genuine payments with the 
card. Im struggling to see how, even if Miss B never checked her bank account as she says,  
that these withdrawals could all have taken place  without her noticing.  
My finding  doesnt  rule out her consenting  to someone else using her card.  And so I dont 
think that even  if there was CCTV as Miss B wanted it would necessarily resolve  whether the 
person withdrawing  the money was acting with her authority.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here but will consider what I think is most 
likely. And having  considered all the available evidence Im afraid that I think that the most 
likely explanation is that Miss B did consent to the withdrawals and so they were authorised. 
So I dont  have a basis to require HSBC to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1806246