K820x#14Complaint
Ms H complained that Curtis Banks Investment Management Ltd had failed  to meet  their 
obligations to her when administering her self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). Specifically 
in the way a single investment was dealt with.
Background
In 2012 Ms H was going through divorce proceedings. As part of the settlement with her 
husband its understood that funds from his SIPP  were transferred into a SIPP  in Ms Hs 
name. Ms Hs SIPP was administered by Alliance Trust Savings Limited at the time. Ms Hs 
SIPP was opened  in July 2012.
Ms Hs representatives say this activity  completed around 4 September  2012, following the 
decree nisi being made. Ms Hs representatives have referred  to Alliance Trust as being the 
former incarnation of Curtis Bank.
A single investment was then made using the funds in Ms Hs SIPP.  This investment was 
made in a company closely linked to Ms Hs ex-husband. Its said the main  thrust  and 
responsibility for the work  done in relation to Ms H making this investment was by an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) that Ms H used. This IFA was again closely linked to 
her ex-husband. A complaint has been  made and considered separately in relation to this 
IFA.
Alliance Trust  received instructions from the IFA to make the investment. Ive seen  reference  
to the instruction form being dated  5 November 2012. It appears Ms H accepted signing this 
instruction but she has said this was done  under stressful circumstances and without having 
the contents explained to her. The investment  was made in December 2012.
It isnt suggested  Curtis  Banks ought  to have known that Ms H believed she was mis-led 
when she signed  documents. But representatives  on behalf of Ms H went  on to suggest 
Curtis Banks failed  in their regulatory obligations  to know their client  (Ms H). And her 
representatives suggested Curtis  Banks ought  to have contacted Ms H to confirm she was 
aware of her instructions and to provide  her with information that would  have allowed her to 
have stopped the investment. Ms H was particularly unhappy with the level of holding  she 
said differed significantly  from what had been  promised and intended by the IFA, the 
company in which she had invested  and her ex-husband. Overall Ms H has felt the company 
she invested in, stole the funds from her SIPP; and that Curtis Banks could have  acted in 
such a way that would have prevented this.
Ms H also complained that Curtis  Banks were slow to advise her on the performance of the 
SIPP investment  and with the valuation of her holding. Her representatives were unhappy 
Curtis Banks hadnt advised in this way, save for providing information  on how a valuation  
might be obtained.
Curtis Banks rejected the complaint. They set out that any complaint made  about  events that 
took place in November 2012 and in relation to the starting of the SIPP ought to be directed 
to Alliance Trust; as Curtis  Banks had bought the scheme book of business from them  at a 
later date. 
Ref: DRN12812382They went  on to set out that they were an execution-only SIPP provider and what that 
meant. In summary they said they played  no part in the investment choices investors  made; 
nor was it their responsibility  to monitor or advise  on an investments performance. 
Curtis Banks said their obligation involving ensuring any investment selected  met their 
acceptable investment  criteria at the time of acquisition. But beyond that their role isnt to 
assess suitability for an investors own individual needs. 
They said that like any SIPP provider, they would only allow investments to be placed by the 
individual plan holder, or their appointed representative. And they explained that 
confirmation of who had investment authority for Ms H in 2012 would need to be sought from 
Alliance Trust.  They  went on to provide the name  of the IFA they had on their records.  This 
name accorded with the name  of the IFA who Ms H said acted for her at the time.
Curtis Banks went on to explain  what could  be done  in relation to obtaining a current  
valuation, but set out that they had no direct influence over the administration  of the 
company in which the funds were invested. Curtis  Banks said Ms H and her representatives  
were aware they had contacted the company in which she was invested requesting a 
valuation of the shares held; and said they shared  the frustration being expressed about  this.
Ms Hs representatives referred  this complaint,  along with others against other parties it was 
said were involved,  to this service.
Curtis Banks went on to tell us they didnt  become the administrators  of Ms Hs SIPP  until 21 
January 2013.  By which time the SIPP had already been started  and the investment made. 
The January  date was when the SIPP was acquired  as part of a whole scheme transfer from 
Alliance Trust.  They  said that Alliance Trust continued to exist and any complaint or request 
for information ought to be made  to them. Curtis  Bank didnt think  this part of Ms Hs 
complaint in relation to due diligence  ought  to be considered against them as it was prior to 
their involvement.
Curtis Banks said they didn't  assume any of the liabilities of the previous administrator.  
Curtis Banks sent us various  further  material including  information  in relation to their 
acquisition of the SIPP business,  the terms relating to their SIPP  accounts  and the 
transaction history  from Ms Hs plan (which shows the investment was acquired on 10 
December 2012  for around £245,000).
Our adjudicator issued  her view on this complaint. She also looked  at the other  complaints 
made; but I am only looking at this complaint made against Curtis Banks.
The adjudicator accepted  that at the time the SIPP started and when the funds of around 
£250,600 were transferred in Ms Hs SIPP, the SIPP was administered by Alliance Trust. 
And Alliance  Trust continued  to administer the plan until January 2013; so including on 10 
December 2012.
She accepted that Curtis Banks didnt assume  responsibility for the administration  of Ms Hs
SIPP until 21 January  2013. She also accepted  Curtis Banks didnt assume  any liabilities  of 
the previous administrator when the administration of the SIPP moved  to them.
So she didnt think responsibility  for any complaint made about the administration  of Ms Hs 
SIPP at the time the investment was made ought to be considered  against  Curtis Banks. Any 
complaint ought  to be directed to Alliance Trust to consider. 
Ref: DRN12812383The adjudicator also accepted what Curtis Banks had told us about  their role and that theyd   
provided Ms H with details of the invested  companys required process for sale based on 
what it was understood  Ms H wanted to know. 
Overall she concluded  Curtis Banks hadnt done anything wrong here.
Ms H and her representatives said they wanted  an ombudsman to make a decision.  In 
summary they said:
Ms H had to have a new SIPP set up in 2012 as her husbands  SIPP couldnt be 
reassigned to her.
They continued to stress what regulatory  checks and obligations ought to have been  
fulfilled before and when  the SIPP was set up and at the time of the investment.
They continued to refer to this being the responsibility of Curtis  Banks.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
Ms H made other complaints against  other  parties, including  the IFA. Id like to highlight that 
I am only considering  the complaint made  against Curtis Banks and not against any other 
entity.
Based on everything  Ive seen I accept that at the time Ms Hs SIPP  was opened  (July  2012) 
and when funds  were transferred in and the investment made, Curtis Banks didnt administer 
or have  responsibility  for Ms Hs SIPP. 
I accept that it wasnt until 21 January 2013  when they took over the entire SIPP  business 
from Alliance Trust that Curtis  Banks had any responsibility to Ms H and her SIPP. I also 
accept they didnt take on retrospective responsibility or liability  for activity  that took place 
before then.
So if Ms H wants  to complain about  the way her SIPP  was administered in 2012  such  a 
complaint would need to be made  against the business that was responsible for 
administering the SIPP at the time (understood to be Alliance Trust)  to enable them the 
opportunity to consider it.
I think this has been explained clearly previously  by both Curtis Banks and our adjudicator. 
And whilst Ive seen Ms H and her representatives asked for an ombudsmans decision and 
continued to complain Curtis Banks  didnt administer  things right in 2012;  I dont  think they 
have made  any submissions setting out why they dont  accept  that Curtis Banks didnt have 
responsibility in 2012.  Nor have we been  told if any attempt  has been made to contact 
Alliance Trust  about this; not that this information  alone would alter my decision.
I think the only complaint  I am able to consider is that Curtis Banks failed to advise Ms H on 
the ongoing performance of her SIPP and to assist her in the sale of the investment.
Ref: DRN12812384But I also dont think Curtis Banks  did anything wrong here. I accept they did what  they were 
required to do in administering  the SIPP on this issue. And Ive seen they acted to set out 
what needed to be done to sell the investment.
In any event, I dont think  Ms H and her representatives have disagreed  with what  Curtis  
Banks and the adjudicator have previously  explained and said about this. There  may have 
been some  mis-understanding,  as there  did continue to be some suggestion that Curtis  
Banks ought to have  been providing  some sort of ongoing advisory service to Ms H. But I 
accept that was not the service provided by Curtis Banks, who were solely the SIPP 
providers here. 
Final decision
So for the reasons given I reject the complaint made  on behalf of Ms H against Curtis  Banks  
Investment Management Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.  
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1281238