K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  unfairly  cancelled  his gadget insurance policy  
and declined  his claim.
background
Mr V made a claim to Amtrust on 10 January 2019  after his laptop stopped working.  He sent 
Amtrust a quote for repair from the manufacturer. On 22 January Amtrust approved  the 
quote and said it was happy  for Mr V to get the laptop repaired.  Then  the manufacturer  told 
Mr V it wouldnt carry out the repair after all as the laptop was out of the warranty  period. On 
28 January Amtrust said its supplier  would collect and repair the laptop. The supplier  said 
that it wasnt economical to repair the laptop.  On 5 February Amtrust offered Mr V £562 to 
settle the claim based on the original cost of the laptop less 10% depreciation.
Mr V told Amtrust he wasnt happy with the settlement amount. He said it wasnt enough to 
replace his laptop on a like for like basis.
Then Amtrust told Mr V that the direct debit instruction to his bank to pay the premium  had 
been cancelled  and so he hadnt  actually been insured at the time of the claim as his policy 
had been cancelled.
Mr V didnt think that was fair. He said according  to the policy  terms Amtrust should  have 
contacted him after the first missed  payment  if it had been unable  to collect a premium 
payment and it hadnt done so.
Amtrust said as a goodwill gesture it would pay him £624 being  what  Mr V had paid for the 
laptop in 2011. Mr V wasnt happy  with that. He said if his policy  hadnt  been unfairly 
cancelled by Amtrust, he would have been  entitled to challenge the settlement.
Mr V brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld  it. She thought Amtrust 
should:
collect the premium and reinstate the policy;
replace the laptop on a like for like basis or offer a cash settlement in line with the policy 
terms; and
pay Mr V £50 compensation.
As Amtrust  didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that Amtrust correctly followed the procedure set out in the policy for a 
missed instalment payment. The policy said where Amtrust was unable  to collect  a premium 
payment, it would contact  the policyholder by email after the first missed collection 
requesting payment of the premium.  If it didnt receive payment by the next collection date 
and the next payment was also missed,  it would cancel the policy with immediate effect and 
send an email confirmation of the cancellation. 
Ref: DRN13280632Thats not what happened here.  Amtrust didnt contact Mr V about the missed direct debit 
payment until about six weeks  after the payment was due. It didnt give him a chance to pay 
the outstanding premium.  If it had done  so, its likely  in my view that Mr V would have paid 
the amount due and then his policy wouldnt have been cancelled.
Its not in dispute  that Mr V cancelled the direct debit. He says that was in error.  Amtrust 
says that means  it didnt  have to follow the procedure  referred  to above. I disagree. The 
policy doesnt say that Amtrust will only follow this procedure if the policyholder wasnt  
responsible for the direct debit  payment  not being made. So I dont think that makes  any 
difference to what Amtrust should have  done following the missed payment.
Since I think the policy was unfairly  cancelled, Amtrust should reinstate the policy subject to 
Mr V paying  the outstanding premiums. He bought  a new laptop almost  two months after 
making his claim. So I think  if his policy hadnt  been cancelled, hed have paid two further 
instalments of the premium. Mr V says he would have cancelled his policy  after that point.  In 
view of the way Amtrust  handled his claim, I believe its likely that he would  have done  so 
since it was a monthly rolling  policy.
Amtrust based its settlement offer on what the original laptop had cost Mr V. I dont think  that 
was the correct approach. The policy said:
In the event that your claim is authorised and your gadget is deemed beyond  economical 
repair and will therefore have to be replaced,  we will endeavour to replace it with an identical 
fully refurbished or new (where a refurbished item is not available) item. This is not a new for 
old insurance. Should this not be possible the Administrator will replace it with a fully 
refurbished or new (where  a refurbished item is not available) item of a comparable 
specification or the equivalent value.
Instead in order  to treat Mr V fairly, I think Amtrust should settle the claim (since  Mr V has 
replaced the laptop in the meantime) on the basis of what  it would cost it to provide a 
refurbished or new laptop  of a comparable specification.
Mr V suffered  the trouble  and upset of being without a working laptop for almost  two months, 
his policy  having  been unfairly cancelled and his claim declined because  he didnt accept 
Amtrusts revised settlement offer. In the circumstances  I think its fair that Amtrust should 
pay him £50 compensation for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Amtrust  Europe Limited to:
reinstate Mr Vs policy for a further two months from the date of cancellation subject to 
him paying the two outstanding instalments  of the premium;
settle Mr Vs claim on the basis referred  to above subject to the remaining policy terms;
pay Mr V £50 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Ref: DRN13280633Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1328063