K820x#14complaint
Mrs B, as attorney for Miss P, complains about  the way HSBC UK Bank Plc has handled  an 
Enduring Power of Attorney (EPA).
 
background
Mrs B says she met with HSBC in September 2018  and asked  to be added  to Miss Ps 
account under a Power of Attorney to assist  with her banking if she had to go into hospital. 
She says she told HSBC that Miss P still had full mental capacity. Mrs B says she didnt 
know at that point that the registered EPA was incompatible with HSBCs form for someone  
with full mental capacity.  HSBC accepted  and processed the EPA and for a time Miss Ps 
account was frozen  and some payments werent  made. Mrs B wants  HSBC  to process all 
payments on Miss Ps account, to cover any bank charges incurred while  the account was 
inhibited and pay compensation for the court  fees for cancelling the EPA registration.
HSBC said in its final response that the Enduring Power of Attorney had been processed 
and stamped by the Office of Public  Guardian  (OPG) which considered Miss P was 
mentally incapable. If Mrs B would  like to change the EPA she should contact the OPG. As 
HSBC received this legal document confirming Miss P was mentally incapable its bound by 
a duty of care for its customer and has to abide  by its procedures.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The EPA document has been  stamped by the OPG which  implies  Miss P is mentally  
incapable. HSBC  has explained that because of this it now considers Miss P is 
mentally incapable. Thats reasonable.
HSBC also says its legal department  advised putting the EPA in place and it did so 
on 23 November 2018 in line with its duty of care to customers. And until the EPA is 
revoked it must stand  as a legal document.  Thats fair and reasonable.
The EPA was stamped by the OPG  on 26 April 2018 before Mrs B registering it with 
HSBC. Its not fair to hold HSBC responsible if Miss P retains  mental capacity when 
the document suggests she doesnt. 
HSBC hasnt made an error or acted  unreasonably. And she cant ask it to do 
anything.
Mrs B doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says in September  2018 
the EPA was reviewed by a member  of HSBCs staff who commented that it was good  it was 
registered. Mrs B then completed the banks power  of attorney application form. HSBC 
couldve contacted  either Mrs B or Miss P if there was a problem with the application. It took 
HSBC a month to put the EPA into place  which  is unfair  and unacceptable.  During this time 
account functions were  restricted. Its suspicious that the EPA was only put into place after 
she contacted  this service  and this prompted  HSBC  to seek advice from its legal team. She 
has now applied to the OPG to cancel the EPA. The form for that only allows reference to 
the person who hasnt  got capacity. She is waiting to hear from the Court.
Ref: DRN15834382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P signed an EPA form in 2005 naming Mrs B as her proposed  and future attorney. And 
Mrs B also signed the form acknowledging  that she understood that she had to apply to the 
Court for registration of the form under the Enduring Powers  of Attorney Act 1985 whenever  
Miss P is becoming or has become mentally  incapable.
It appears the EPA form was sent to the OPG  in October 2017 and it stamped it as 
registered  on 26 April 2018.  This wouldve been done on the basis  that the OPG  was told 
Miss P was no longer mentally  capable. From that date Mrs B became Miss Ps attorney 
under the EPA.  
There may well have  been some confusion between the effect of the EPA and a general 
power of attorney when Mrs B spoke  to HSBC in September.  And it may well be that the 
effect of the registration of the EPA wasnt  properly understood by the banks staff or 
explained to Mrs B. As result Mrs B was given and completed a general power of attorney 
application form designed for a person who still had mental capacity.
But whatever happened  Im not convinced this made any real difference  to whats happened 
as by the time Mrs B saw the bank the EPA was registered and she was already Miss Ps 
appointed attorney.
HSBC wasnt responsible for the EPA registration application and it wasnt made as a result 
of the meeting in September 2018.  The registration was actually completed  months  before 
that in April 2018. Consequently  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to 
reimburse the Court costs  for applying to cancel the registration as Mrs B would like.
After the September meeting HSBC realised that the EPA was registered,  which  recognising 
Miss P wasnt mentally capable, and appointed Mrs B as her attorney. And that this was 
incompatible with the Power  of Attorney application  form completed  by Mrs B which  was 
designed for persons with mental capacity.
I think it was reasonable  for HSBC to consider what to do at this point and to eventually  take 
legal advice. Not least as it had conflicting information about  whether or not Miss P was or 
wasnt mentally capable.  I also think it was reasonable for it to inhibit  the account for a 
relatively short time to protect Miss P until things became clearer.  It also says it had to carry 
out checks. Overall  I dont  think HSBC unduly delayed dealing  with matters. 
The simple  fact is that the registered EPA is a legal Court document which  HSBC must  
respect and abide  by. And having been  made aware of it I dont think  its done anything 
wrong by considering Miss P to be mentally  incapable and by recognising Mrs B as Miss Ps 
attorney.
Mrs B says Miss P is mentally capable of handling  her finances and an application has been 
made to the Court  to cancel the EPA registration and her appointment as attorney.  But until 
that application is dealt with by the Court  Mrs B remains  Miss Ps attorney and HSBC is 
acting reasonably by not cancelling the EPA or removing it from its records.
Ref: DRN15834383Taking everything into account  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to do 
anything more. And although  I recognise  Mrs Bs frustration I dont see any compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B as attorney 
for Miss P to accept or reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1583438