K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that their application to Santander UK Plc for a mortgage was 
declined.
background
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs R were  relocating and buying a new property. Theyd  sold their 
home and were renting in their new city. They  had an initial appointment with Santander in 
September 2018 when they discussed  their mortgage requirements. 
Mr and Mrs R were told at the meeting that, because Mr R only had one years  accounts for 
his business, this was outside  Santanders  lending criteria. But because Mr and Mrs R had 
previously had a mortgage  with Santander,  the adviser thought it would be a strong case  for 
the underwriters to override the lending criteria.
In late November 2018 Mr and Mrs R found  a property they wanted  to buy and made an 
appointment with Santander for 23 November  2018 to begin  the mortgage  application  
process. On 6 December  2018 the application was declined. 
Although initially  in September 2018 the adviser  had been optimistic that this might  be an 
exceptional case, the underwriters didnt consider Mr R met Santanders lending criteria.  The 
adviser contacted  the underwriters to discuss this further, but was told on 14 December  
2018 that the application didnt fit lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy  that the application  had been  turned down. They  complained to 
Santander that Mr Rs income was sufficient to service the mortgage and that he had worked 
in the same role for more  than two years. Santander didnt uphold the complaint, although it 
acknowledged that, in error, it might have led Mr and Mrs R to believe that the application 
was likely to have been successful. Santander  paid Mr and Mrs R £150 compensation for 
any trouble and upset  caused by this.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to us. An 
investigator considered  it, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs R asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. Mr and Mrs R have made some further comments,  
which I summarise  below.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were treated unfairly and they dont know  why it took Santander 
so long  from September to December  to decline their application for a mortgage. Mr and 
Mrs R say that their credit  was impeccable, they had substantial assets and at the time Mr R 
was earning in excess of £100,000. So they consider  Santanders decision to decline the 
application to be unfair. 
Mr and Mrs R also question why, if Santanders policy is not to lend to a self-employed 
person with less than two years accounts,  they were told that this could be appealed if its 
going to be declined anyway.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Ref: DRN19598702In September  2018 Mr and Mrs R enquired  about a mortgage. This was not a formal  
mortgage application, as Mr and Mrs R hadnt yet found a property to buy. They  were  made  
aware that the lack of two years accounts for Mr R might be a problem but that, for certain 
occupations, it was possible for the underwriters to override this. 
Im satisfied that the adviser thought that Mr Rs line of work was one of the occupations 
which fell into this category. Based on what he knew at the time, I think  this was a 
reasonable belief for him to have had, so I dont think he deliberately  misled  Mr and Mrs R.
The application process began on 23 November 2018, and Santander  confirmed it had 
declined it on appeal  on 14 December 2018.  I dont think this is an excessive amount of time 
for the application  to be submitted, considered,  rejected, appealed, reconsidered and finally 
declined.
I can understand why the adviser  in September 2018 thought that Mr R might  fit into the 
category of occupation  which would allow an override  for less than two years  accounts. But 
after scrutiny, Santander  decided  that Mr Rs line of work didnt fit into any of the categories 
that would  allow an override. In the circumstances, Im satisfied Santander was entitled  to 
decline the application, as it didnt fit its lending  criteria.  
I dont have any power to tell Santander  what criteria it should have in place; thats  a matter 
for its own commercial judgement. Its not based  entirely on affordability or income. So 
although Ive noted what Mr and Mrs R have said about their finances, that wasnt  the 
deciding factor for the refusal  of the application.  I also dont have any power to impose my 
own decision  on Santander and tell it that it should have offered a mortgage  to a customer 
who does not meet its lending criteria. 
So although  I appreciate Mr and Mrs R were disappointed, Im not persuaded Santander has 
done anything  wrong in its decision to decline the application. Santander gave  the 
application proper  consideration,  declined the application on appeal  and reached  its decision 
fairly after it applied  its lending criteria. 
I see that Santander has already paid Mr and Mrs R £150 compensation for customer 
service issues.  I am not making any other order or award.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1959870