K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc blocked her debit card on a number of 
occasions. 
background
Ms B told us that RBS first blocked her card on 24 June  2018 when she tried to use it in a 
restaurant. It happened again in a shop three days later on 27 June. She phoned  RBS on 29 
June and it told her the card would be re-activated  at midnight. But in another  shop a few 
days later on 6 July her card was declined again. She phoned  RBS on 7 July and the agent 
told her it was because shed entered the wrong  PIN. But she says she didnt  enter a PIN. 
Since making her complaint shes had problems with RBSs service. She didnt get letters  
from RBS, it didnt call her back when it said it would do so and she made a number of 
phone calls and was kept waiting a long time.
In its final response letter  RBS said the problem  was because Ms B didnt enter her PIN 
correctly. And when RBS unblocked her card she didnt reactivate it at a cash machine.  But 
it could see that this had been  a stressful situation for her. So it credited her account with 
£25 compensation.
The adjudicator asked RBS to clarify the reason  why Ms Bs card was blocked as she said 
she didnt enter her PIN. But RBS said that it only keeps that information for six months so 
couldnt provide  it. But it said that at the date of the final response letter the information  
wouldve been available.  And that letter said the reason for blocking the card was due to 
Ms B entering her PIN incorrectly.
Having asked for and seen  further  information from RBS the adjudicator  concluded that RBS 
had authorised the relevant payments but they werent processed. So the money didnt leave 
Ms Bs account. But due to the passage  of time he was unable to say what had gone wrong. 
On balance he thought it must be due to either an error with the card or with the PIN not 
being unblocked.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Bs frustration at not being  able to find out exactly why there was a 
problem with these  three  transactions.  RBS initially said it was because  she entered  her PIN 
incorrectly on a number  of occasions. But Ms B says she didnt use her PIN. RBS cant now 
give us the information it relied  on in its final response letter. But there isnt any doubt that 
there was a problem  with Ms Bs card and she had to phone RBS on two occasions  to try 
and sort out the problem.
It seems  that Ms B was able to pay for the three  transactions by other  means so, although I 
know she wont agree  with me, in those circumstances  I dont think she would reasonably 
have suffered more  than momentary inconvenience and embarrassment. And when she 
phoned RBS on the first occasion Im satisfied  the agent tried to help her advising Ms B how 
to unlock her card by going to a cash machine. When  she phoned on the second occasion it 
could see from its system records that she hadnt  done that.  
Ref: DRN13555052RBS ordered Ms B a new card on 30 June 2018 although she said it didnt arrive until 10 
July 2018. But since then she doesnt  seem  to have had any similar problems with that card. 
I know Ms B will be disappointed with my decision but looking at all the information  provided 
by both parties I dont  have enough  evidence to conclude that the problems with the three 
transactions were  the fault of RBS. And as Ive said I dont think the problems with them had 
more than a minor impact on Ms B as she was able to complete the transactions by other  
means of payment.
RBS has paid Ms B £25 compensation  for its poor customer service after she phoned to 
complain about  the problems.  She says thats  not enough. But I cant tell RBS how it should  
deal with and handle complaints. Its complaint handling  is not, under our rules, what is called 
a regulated activity.  If Ms B wants to take her concerns about  RBSs complaint handling 
procedures further  she will need  to refer her concerns to the Financial Conduct Authority.
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Ms B but for all the reasons Ive given I dont think  
its done anything  wrong. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1355505