K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a fixed sum loan agreement  financed 
by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He wants  all outstanding payments  
on the agreement  to be cancelled.
background 
Mr S is represented in this complaint by his wife but for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
Mr S tells us that he acquired the vehicle  through a dealer Ill refer to as T in late October 
2018. He says within a couple of days of having  the vehicle he experienced problems with it. 
And he reported issues with changing gears  and the clutch  pedal. He says he returned the 
vehicle to T and asked  for an exchange  of vehicles. But this didnt prove possible. 
Hitachi told us that Mr S had complained in early  November 2018 that the vehicle wouldnt 
change gears and that there was a fault with the clutch pedal. It said the vehicle had been 
inspected by T and no faults  had been found. And it confirmed that a later inspection  by an 
independent company Ill refer to as E had produced a similar  finding.  It said the vehicle 
had been left at Ts premises by Mr S even though hed been notified he should collect it. 
Hitachi told us it had later arranged a sale of the vehicle back  to T for £7,000.  But that Mr S 
would have to repay  the remaining balance on the agreement.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
nothing to show the vehicle wasnt fit for purpose. And he thought Hitachis offer to organise  
the sale of the vehicle  for £7,000 was fair. He said that whilst this would leave Mr S to pay 
the balance of the payments he didnt  think he could  ask Hitachi to do any more.
Mr S didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve  the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr S has had such  an upsetting experience after he acquired this vehicle. And 
Im aware hes suffered from ill health  which makes  such  problems even more distressing.
I should explain that Im aware theres  another  complaint which  is related to the sale of this 
vehicle which is being looked at by another ombudsman.  That complaint refers  to the nature 
of the finance  agreement. Im only looking at the issues of whether the vehicle was of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply to Mr S. And whether Hitachi should be able to 
recover the balance  of payments due on the agreement.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr S has a like claim against Hitachi as 
he does against  T for breach  of contract and/or misrepresentation. For the purposes of 
section 75, a breach of contract is where a supplier fails to do what  the contract  says it must, 
either expressly or impliedly.  For example, theres a breach of contract where  the goods are 
not up to standard.
Ref: DRN13595542As this complaint  is brought against  Hitachi, its important for me to explain  that Im looking 
at the way in which  it dealt  with Mr Ss claim. Im not deciding  on the merits of any underlying  
claim he may have against T. But in determining if Hitachi has treated Mr S fairly Ill take this 
aspect into consideration.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act of 2015  goods must be of satisfactory quality  at the point  
of sale. And satisfactory  quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car.
Ive been provided  with information which shows that after Mr S returned the vehicle it was 
inspected on two occasions. Firstly by T, in November  2018. And latterly by E on 7 January 
2019. Whilst Ts inspection cant be considered to be independent, as its findings were  
confirmed by E I think that Im entitled  to rely on both reports.  Neither inspection  revealed 
any faults. As theres no plausible information  that the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory  quality I 
dont think theres been  any breach of contract for which Hitachi  should  be liable. 
As the finance  agreement was a fixed sum loan, the ownership of the vehicle passed to Mr S 
upon payment  of the purchase  price. Following the investigators view it seems that Mr S 
agreed to allow Hitachi  to organise the sale of the vehicle  back to T. That transaction went  
ahead and the money was paid on 24 April 2019  and credited to Mr Ss account. 
Im aware theres since been a suggestion by Mr S that Hitachi  shouldnt have sold the car. 
But as thats not something  that relates to the quality of the vehicle Im not making  any 
finding on this point.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Mr S entered  into a finance agreement  to pay for the supply  of 
this vehicle. Im unable to find any plausible information which  would make me think  the 
vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. So I cant  see any reason why 
Hitachi shouldnt be able to seek repayment  of the loan.
Im of the opinion that Hitachi has dealt with the complaint fairly and Im not requiring it to do 
anything else. Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr S Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1359554