K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy Tradewise Insurance Company Limited (Tradewise)  has declined his car 
insurance claim. 
background
On 16 September  2018 Mr As car was stolen. So he made a claim to Tradewise. 
Tradewise asked Mr A if he had an MOT certificate. But he wasnt  able to provide one. When 
discussing the claim with Tradewise he said he thought he did have a valid MOT in place. In 
a later conversation  Mr A told Tradewise he didnt think  he needed to have an MOT because  
he bought the car new in 2015 and an MOT wasnt  needed for the first three years.
Tradewise reviewed the information it had been given by Mr A but decided to reject  the 
claim. It said Mr A didnt have an MOT on the car. And the terms and conditions  of the policy  
explain that Mr A isnt covered if he doesnt have  an MOT.  
Mr A was unhappy with this decision  so he made  a complaint. Tradewise issued a final 
response maintaining  its decision to reject the claim due to the above  exclusion. It also said 
Mr A had given a false statement about his MOT  in order to progress his claim. So Mr A 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  but decided not to uphold  it. He felt that Tradewise 
couldnt rely solely on the car not having  an MOT to reject the claim. But he was satisfied  
Tradewise had fairly declined the claim on the grounds Mr A had provided  a false  statement 
which had an effect on the value of the claim. 
Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has now been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold it 
for largely  the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain  why below. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr A not having a valid MOT
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive seen a copy  of the terms and conditions for this policy. These  state that there  is an 
exclusion from cover  if the car doesnt  have an MOT. But, like the investigator,  I dont think  it 
would be fair or reasonable to reject the claim for theft just because  there wasnt  a valid 
MOT. This is because the purpose  of this exclusion is to make sure the car is roadworthy 
and it lowers the risk of the car being  involved in a claim following an accident. But Mr As 
Ref: DRN18999232car was stolen  the car having a valid MOT wouldnt have  made a difference. So, Im not 
satisfied the lack of MOT is a fair reason to decline the claim. 
False statement
Tradewise has also declined the claim because of the inconsistent statements Mr A gave 
when he was asked  about the MOT. I cant know for sure exactly which  version of events 
took place here. But in order for Tradewise to fairly  decline  this claim it has to show Mr A 
made a false statement  which  has affected the value  of the claim. 
The terms and conditions  provided by Tradewise say the policy will not be effective if Mr A 
has made a false statement in support of his claim. Having listened  to the calls provided, Im 
satisfied he initially told Tradewise a garage had carried  out his MOT before telling it he 
didnt think he needed one due to purchasing the car new. Therefore on balance,  I dont 
think its unreasonable for Tradewise to have concluded that one of Mr As statements were 
false. 
Ive also considered if the false  statement  has had an impact on the value of the claim here. 
After discussing his settlement with Tradewise Mr A was aware that a car not having an 
MOT will likely affect its value and subsequently any potential amount he was due after it 
was stolen. So Im satisfied Mr As statements about  the MOT had an effect on the value of 
the claim.  Therefore, Tradewise has reasonably concluded Mr As false  statement about the 
MOT was an attempt to pursue the claim.   
conclusion 
Overall, I think Tradewises decision  to decline the claim is reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1899923