K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed  to remove a restriction on his account  for 
cash withdrawals. Hes also unhappy with its process for complaints and submitting 
information to the safeguarding team.
background
Mr S received a letter from HSBC  in January 2019 to say he needed to provide information  
to their safeguarding  team. He was told that if he didnt do this his account might  be 
restricted. Mr S tried to submit the information  through his online banking  facility but he says 
this service wasnt available. So he called HSBCs  safeguarding team  instead.  
The call got cut off halfway through and Mr S rang customer  services  who he says 
completed the remainder  of the questions. HSBC agreed to pay Mr S £50 compensation 
because the safeguarding team didnt  try and call him back  straightaway. 
Mr S tried to withdraw money from a cash machine around a week  later but it didnt work. 
When he called HSBC  he was told there  was a restriction  in place by the safeguarding team. 
HSBC agreed to remove the restriction so that Mr S could  withdraw  the money he needed. 
Mr S called to complain two weeks later about  what had happened. He was told there  was 
no longer any restriction  on his account and HSBC agreed to pay him a further  £50 
compensation. 
A few weeks  later Mr S still had problems withdrawing cash so he complained  to HSBC 
again. HSBC explained that the restriction had been  correctly applied. This was because 
Mr S hadnt  answered  all of the questions that the safeguarding team  needed to know.  It 
said hed need  to speak to that team to lift the restriction on his account. 
Mr S was unhappy with HSBCs response  and wanted further compensation for the 
problems hed experienced. He said hed spent several hours on phone  calls with HSBC  
which could have been avoided. He didnt think HSBC had followed their own published 
complaints process  as they refused to review  his complaint after a final response was sent to 
him. Lastly he also wanted HSBC to provide  a facility  to submit information  to the 
safeguarding team  through internet banking. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He agreed that HSBCs  service 
had been poor. He said HSBC should  have communicated better  with Mr S so that the 
restriction could have  been lifted sooner. But he thought the £100 compensation HSBC had 
paid for those mistakes  was fair. This was because Mr S was able to get access  to his 
money each time he called so the impact  on him, whilst  inconvenient,  wasnt significant. He 
didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong during its complaints process or by not offering 
an online  facility. 
Mr S didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls where  Mr S says he was told the restriction on his account  was 
Ref: DRN17976662removed. I agree with him that he was led to believe during these calls that he would have 
no further problems  with his account. However, it appears that HSBC didnt follow its own 
processes correctly in order  to permanently resolve the problem.  
Mr S rightly  believed he had answered all of the questions HSBC needed after his first call 
with the safeguarding team and then later the same day with customer services.  
Unfortunately due to the customer services representative following the incorrect  process,  
Mr S hadnt  completed  all the required questions.  
When Mr S called a few weeks after his first issue at a cash  machine, he was correctly told 
the safeguarding  team  still needed to speak to him. But he was also incorrectly told the 
restriction on his account was removed. The safeguarding team  called Mr S the same day to 
try and resolve the problem. During that call Mr S said he was busy  and agreed to a call 
back three days later. The safeguarding team did call back  at that time but Mr S didnt 
accept the call. I understand this was because he was abroad,  but Mr S didnt tell HSBC  
that. 
I can understand why Mr S didnt call HSBC back  as he assumed everything had been 
resolved previously. And HSBC  hadnt  told him why the safeguarding team still needed to 
speak to him. So it wasnt until he had issues with the cash machine a second time that he 
needed to call again. At this stage HSBC did correctly explain that the safeguarding team  
still had a couple of questions outstanding which is why the restriction  wasnt fully removed.  
So HSBC  did eventually  give Mr S the correct information and the restrictions have since  
been lifted from his account. 
I can see how frustrating this experience has been for Mr S. And I appreciate  hes had to 
make several  sometimes lengthy  phone calls to HSBC to try and resolve the problem. 
The overall service from HSBC should  have been  better. But I can see that Mr S was given 
access to withdraw money  from his account every time he alerted HSBC to a problem. So 
the impact on him wasnt significant, although  I accept it was inconvenient and unnecessarily  
time consuming. 
Ive also considered that the only restriction applied to Mr S account was in relation to him 
being able to withdraw money at a cash machine.  His other banking facilities  continued to 
work normally. So again, the impact  on his day to day ability  to manage his finances  wasnt  
severely impacted.  This is demonstrated by the fact he only needed to withdraw cash twice 
over the course  of one month (and was still able to do so after discussing  it with HSBC first). 
Taking everything into account,  I think the £100 compensation HSBC  has already paid is fair 
compensation for the mistakes  it made  and the impact its had on Mr S. 
Mr S also feels  HSBC  didnt follow its complaints process correctly.  Ive considered what  
Mr S has said, but Ive not seen anything to make  me think HSBC  acted unfairly  in the way it 
dealt with Mr S complaints. I can see it considered  the points hed made and issued a final 
response letter. Mr S was given the opportunity to escalate his concerns with our service at 
that point. 
Lastly, Mr S wants HSBC to ensure there is a way to submit information to the safeguarding 
team through online banking. I note HSBC  say in the letter it sent to Mr S that an online 
facility existed. Im not sure why this wasnt available to Mr S when he tried to use it. But it 
isnt my role to interfere  in how HSBC decides  its best to collect  this type of information.  
I have however thought about whether its processes meant it treated Mr S unfairly  in any 
Ref: DRN17976663way. As HSBC did offer other suitable alternatives to provide the information,  I dont think it 
did.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint as HSBC UK Bank  Plc has 
already done enough  to put things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1797666