K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about advice given by Quays  Wealth Management Limited (Quays) to 
transfer his personal  pension  to a self invested personal pension  (SIPP) with a new provider 
and invest via a Discretionary Fund  Manager (DFM).  
background
Ive considered Mr Hs complaint before.  I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2021.   
In it I set out the background to Mr Hs complaint which Ive recapped here:
Mr H was contacted  by Quays  who offered  to review his pension  arrangements.  Quays 
issued a suitability  report on 16 October  2015.  It recorded that Mr H was 57, married  with 
two grown up non financially dependent children. He was employed, earning around  
£15,000. He owned his own home worth about  £200,000 and had £96,000  in savings. He 
was a member of his current  employers  pension scheme. He also had a paid up personal 
pension invested  in the providers with-profits fund. He intended to retire gradually over the 
next eight years. He wanted to know if there  was any merit in switching his personal pension  
to another provider.  His attitude to risk (ATR)  had been assessed as medium (5 out of 10).
Quays recommended that Mr H transfer  the value (quoted as £107,156) of his personal 
pension to a SIPP. And that he use a DFM to invest the bulk of his fund. 
The transfer value  of £114,505.17 was paid into Mr Hs new SIPP on 13 November 2015. 
On 25 November 2015 Quays wrote  to the DFM  confirming that £109,000  had been  sent to 
the DFM by the SIPP provider in respect of Mr H. Quays  adviser said:
Using the Dynamic Planner risk profiling tool, I can confirm that the clients ATR is 5 out of 
10  Balanced Risk. 
Please invest in line with the Discretionary Fund Management agreement.
Quays emailed the DFM on 10 December 2015. Quays said that it had become aware that 
the DFM intended  to implement a single  asset  solution for Mr Hs pension  which  was in 
breach of their agreement  and against  the regulators principles. Quays warned it would 
need to report  this to the regulator. 
The DFM  wrote to Quays on 8 January 2016 saying  it intended to invest  Mr Hs fund in line 
with his ATR. The intended percentages for asset allocation were  set out. The DFM went on 
to say that £109,000 had been temporarily  invested in an OWG  bond.  That would be 
reduced to £65,400  with the remainder held in cash until it was invested in line with the 
stated asset distribution.
Upon receiving this, Quays reported the DFM to the regulator on 11 January 2016. Quays 
also says it and the SIPP provider asked the DFM to return  to the SIPP the money it had 
received. But the DFM didnt respond. 
The DFM  went  into administration  in June 2017.  
Mr Hs representative complained to Quays on 9 January 2019.  It said the SIPP  was 
unsuitable for Mr H; Quays  had undertaken inadequate risk profiling and had failed to 
Ref: DRN10896842consider Mr Hs capacity for loss; Quays hadnt ensured that the risks were fully explained to 
Mr H; Quays hadnt properly assessed Mr Hs needs  and objectives and had failed to explain 
the higher charges associated with the SIPP. 
Mr Hs losses  were calculated at £99,367.32. That was the difference between the estimated 
value of Mr Hs personal pension had he retained it and the value of his SIPP (£11,565.95 in 
the cash account)  plus 20% of the estimated value of his DFM portfolio (£21,708.82). That 
was on the basis  that the DFMs administrators  had said that investors may receive that 
proportion of their money back. 
Quays issued  its final response on 25 February 2019. It rejected the complaint. Quays said 
there was nothing to indicate Mr H would suffer any financial  loss. The administrators of the 
DFM were working with the regulator and others to return  assets  to clients  accounts during 
the early part of 2019.
Quays said Mr H hadnt been classified as a sophisticated client. Hed scored 5 out of 10 
using approved risk profiling software and taking  into account other information gathered. He 
was assessed  as a medium risk investor  which was consistent with how his personal 
pension had been invested. Quays recommendation  was suitable. A SIPP was suitable for a 
client who wished to access a DFM.  The charges for the SIPP and the DFM  were broadly  
similar to those of the ceding scheme. Full details  were  given  in the suitability  report and 
accompanying documentation.  
Mr H hadnt been  advised to invest in an unregulated product. The agreement between  
Quays and the DFM (a regulated firm) prohibited  the DFM  from purchasing any non 
standard investments. The DFM was instructed to invest in line with Mr Hs ATR. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He issued his view on 19 March  2020. He 
upheld the complaint. He said that the regulators view, set out in its January  2013 alert,  was 
that providing suitable advice about  pension transfers into a SIPP required consideration of 
the overall investment strategy. 
Mr H intended to retire  gradually over eight years. His personal pension  didnt have an 
income drawdown facility.  But his existing provider did offer personal pension  plans to 
facilitate income drawdown so Mr H could  have transferred to another plan with the same 
provider. He didnt  need the wider investment choices offered  by a SIPP. A DFM wasnt  
necessary and created further charges. If hed stayed  with his existing provider the charges 
would likely  have been lower. 
Quays had instructed the DFM to invest in line with Mr Hs balanced ATR. It was clear, from 
Quays email to the DFM on 10 December 2015, that Quays was aware  that the DFM  had 
decided not to implement the instructed investment  proposition. The adjudicator said hed 
have expected Quays to have immediately recalled the money back into the SIPP, rather  
than allowing the DFM  to implement its single asset solution of the unregulated OWG bond. 
The adjudicator set out how Quays  should redress Mr H. Essentially Quays would be 
responsible for all Mr Hs losses.  
Quays didnt accept the adjudicators view.  Quays  main points were:
The option to use a drawdown  contract with Mr Hs existing provider had been 
considered but discounted, due to the charges  in excess of 2% pa. Using  a DFM  
hadnt increased costs  unnecessarily. 
Ref: DRN10896843The adjudicator  had acknowledged  that the DFM had breached the contractual  
agreements in place  and that Quays had taken the appropriate  action  reporting the 
DFM to the regulator. And both Quays  and the SIPP  provider had immediately asked 
the DFM to transfer the money back into the SIPP but the DFM  didnt respond.  
Quays had recommended the transfer  but hadnt  provided any advice on the specific  
funds. Fund choice was the DFMs responsibility.  All the signed  agreements reflected 
that. And it was standard practice when a third party fund manager is appointed. 
The adjudicator considered Quays comments. But he still wasnt  persuaded that Mr H had 
been given suitable advice. Even if moving  to a plan which offered drawdown with the 
existing provider would have been more  expensive, the proposition recommended to Mr H 
wasnt suitable and his objectives  could  have been  met without  employing  a DFM. And a 
SIPP wasnt  necessary  as Mr H didnt need  access to a wider investment selection. If hed 
been given suitable advice his pension fund would never have been  with the DFM.  
Quays remained unhappy. It said:
The adjudicator  had agreed  that a drawdown  contract was required to meet Mr Hs 
needs. The adjudicator also now agreed  that recommendation wasnt more 
expensive. 
The fact find recorded:  Client would like to invest in a fund that can take advantage 
of market circumstances to derive  a return. Client  likes the idea of active  
management and in particular a fund manager  who would have discretion to buy and 
sell investments instantly on his behalf  to take advantage of short  term opportunities. 
Quays was only responsible for the investment it had recommended  not for an 
alternative chosen by the DFM.
Wed said liability was with Quays even though: the DFM (a regulated investment 
firm) had broken its contractual agreements in place  with Quays, the SIPP provider 
and Mr H; the agreements  all prohibited unregulated funds;  the DFM supplied diverse 
investment portfolios,  which  were never implemented; the DFM  lied to Quays, the 
SIPP provider and Mr H; and the failed DFM had then illegally passed on clients  data 
to Mr Hs representative, about whom Quays made a number of comments.
The complaint  hadnt been approached  in an impartial  manner. Quays  was being 
asked to provide  compensation  to Mr H of about £150,000 because a third party 
regulated firm had stolen Mr Hs money.  Quays isnt accountable for the fraudulent  
activities of the DFM.  
The adjudicator commented that, although Mr H may have said he was interested  in the idea 
of active management,  it wasnt for Mr H to decide  what was suitable  for him. His stated 
objectives could  have been  met without a DFM. Quays advice wasnt suitable.  The 
subsequent issues  wouldnt  have occurred if Mr H hadnt been  advised to transfer to a SIPP  
and use a DFM. Responsibility to correct Mr Hs position fell to Quays. The adjudicator 
confirmed the complaint  would be referred to an ombudsman. 
The documentation  Ive seen includes an investment management agreement between 
Quays and the DFM dated 1 October  2015.  Amongst other things I note: 
The recitals say Quays will introduce clients to the DFM  who will provide an 
investment dealing service and make investment decisions on behalf of the client 
within agreed ATR parameters.
Ref: DRN10896844Section 1.1 defines Allowable  Investment as any investment which is permitted to 
be acquired from time to time with the current list of allowable  investments set out in 
Schedule 2.
The Standard Investment List set out in that schedule includes corporate bonds  and 
shares listed on the London  Stock Exchange or a recognised overseas investment 
exchange with a link (now defunct) to the regulators website.
Section 6 set out the DFMs powers  and duties. Section  6.2 required the DFM to 
manage the fund in accordance with the investment objectives, performance 
measures and restrictions notified.  And having  regard to the need for diversification 
and suitability of investments.  The DFM was only permitted to undertake  transactions 
in allowable investments (as defined).
Ive also seen the agreement with the DFM that Mr H signed on 20 October 2015. Amongst 
other things  I note:
The first page says, under the heading  Involvement of Independent Financial 
Adviser, that Mr H will instruct  his adviser  to provide the DFM on an ongoing basis  
with information  concerning Mr Hs objectives, ATR and circumstances on the basis 
of which  [the DFM]  will assess the suitability  of investments.
Clause 4: the service  provided is the management and investment of the monies in 
the portfolio. The DFM will make  investments that are, in its judgment,  suitable  for an 
investor with the investment objectives and risk profile notified by the adviser.
Clause 5: the DFM  will review the investments it arranges on Mr Hs behalf to ensure 
as far as practical  the overall portfolio matches Mr Hs willingness  to run risks.
Clause 6: there are no restrictions relating to the management of the portfolio or the
transactions the DMF  could arrange on a discretionary basis relating  to the types  of
investments or markets, the value of any one investment, or the proportion of the 
portfolio invested  in any individual  or class  of asset  except as set out. The exceptions  
included not investing more than 10% of the portfolio in any security  that isnt listed or 
quoted on a regulated market.
Clause 8: the DFM  wouldnt be responsible  for losses or depreciation in the value of 
the portfolio or any element in it unless that loss had been caused by negligence or 
dishonesty on the DFMs  part.
Schedule 1 dealt  with discretionary  fund management. It said, when the client signed 
a contract with a DFM, the client agreed - within specified  limits   that the DFM could 
invest the clients fund in a range of investments.
There was a section  about risk. Where an adviser was in place  the adviser would 
discuss with the client and assess the clients willingness to run risk and how much 
he could afford to lose. The adviser would tell the DFM what  level of risk was the 
right one for the client. The DFM  described its four model asset portfolios (aggressive 
growth; growth and income; conservative; and defensive).
About  the advisers relationship with the DFM  it said that adviser obtained information 
from the client to decide what objective  to set and what instructions are given to the 
DFM as to risk tolerance.  The DFM  then makes the investments   the DFMs duty 
was to identify  the investments.
The DFMs terms  and conditions have also been provided. Part 23 dealt with overall  
investment objective  and risk. Clause 23.1 said the DFMs investment policy  was generally 
risk averse within the equity and bond market  and based on a five year time horizon. So the 
DFM could meet its responsibilities  to a clients investment needs, the client  should tell the 
DFM his broad investment objectives,  the degree  of risk acceptable  to the client  and the 
clients knowledge and experience in financial  services.  The requirements would be applied 
Ref: DRN10896845to the portfolio as a whole  and not necessarily to individual investments. Overall  investment 
priorities were set out  capital growth, income  or a combination of the two. Clause 23.3.2 
set out various  risk categories and the sort of investments that would normally be 
recommended.
There were specific terms for discretionary investment management.  Part 1 said the DFM 
would have regard  to the clients  general  investment objectives and the degree of risk 
indicated in the client agreement. And that the DFM would assume there were no 
investments or types of investments the client wished  the DFM not to recommend or markets  
other than indicated in the client agreement.  Subject to that the DFM could recommend any 
investments within  the meaning of the regulators rules.
Im also setting out the provisional findings I reached:
I agree  with much of what the adjudicator said. In particular, I agree that Mr H didnt need a 
SIPP or, despite what he may have said about wanting his fund to be actively managed,  a 
DFM. 
His pension fund was relatively modest, as was his income. I dont see he was in a position 
to make substantial further contributions. He didnt  have  much investment experience or 
knowledge. I dont  think he had any need  to invest in a wider range of assets  that might  be 
available with a SIPP. Or that he needed  to use the services of a DFM and incur the 
additional charges that would result. To the extent that the transfer was driven by those  
factors it was unsuitable.  
Mr Hs existing plan didnt  offer a drawdown  facility. I agree, if hed wanted to start accessing 
his pension fund flexibly, hed have needed to transfer to a different product, with his existing 
or a new provider, that offered income  drawdown.  
But I dont think what Mr H said about wanting to access his pension  fund flexibly and the 
timing was fully explored. Mr H was still working, as was his partner, and had substantial 
savings. He owned his own home mortgage  free and had no other debts or liabilities. Im not 
sure he had any immediate need  to transfer  to a drawdown plan. It may have  been  better  for 
him to have  met any additional income  or capital  needs from his savings and left his pension 
fund to continue  to accumulate. I note that the client review form or fact find records  that he 
wanted to try to grow  his personal  pension plan as much as possible. That may have been 
the rationale for a DFM  but as Ive said I dont think that was appropriate.  I think moving to a 
drawdown plan was premature. That possibility could have been revisited once Mr H did 
start to reduce his working  hours  and if he then needed to top up his income from his 
pension fund. 
I can see why the adjudicator considered  that Quays should meet all Mr Hs losses  those 
losses wouldnt have been  incurred if Mr H hadnt  acted on Quays advice to transfer  to a 
SIPP and use a DFM to invest his fund.  
But I think we do need to look at what happened  to Mr Hs fund after it had been passed to 
the DFM for investment. Im not looking at any complaint about the DFM and we wouldnt 
consider a complaint about the DFM given that it is now in administration   although it might  
be possible  for Mr H to make a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS). Ive concentrated  on Quays part in the matter. Im not making  any findings about 
what the DFM did. But, in deciding Mr Hs complaint about Quays,  Ive taken into account 
the DFMs involvement. 
Ref: DRN10896846Quays says the DFM was responsible for the investments.  The DFM agreement said it 
would identify and select investments. But that doesnt mean the DFM will always  be 
responsible for all investment losses.   
Quays told the DFM that Mr Hs fund should be invested in line with his medium  ATR. I think 
that assessment  of Mr Hs ATR was credible.  It was based on answers he gave  to a risk 
tolerance questionnaire.  I think he indicated he wanted to take some degree of risk. And I 
think his financial situation was such that he had some  capacity  for loss and able to take 
some degree of risk.  
Quays expected the DFM  to invest Mr Hs fund in a portfolio of investments that, overall, 
were suitable for a medium  risk investor. The client  agreement makes it clear that the DFM  
is required to take into account, in identifying  and making investments, the clients ATR as 
notified by the clients  adviser.  And ensure that the portfolio recommended matches  the 
clients willingness to run risks. 
Clause 6 gives the DFM  a wide discretion in selecting investments. There is a restriction 
which Quays might point to has having  been breached  by the investment in the OWG bond. 
There may be some suggestion  that wasnt a permitted investment. But the list of allowable  
investments included corporate bonds. I cant immediately see any specific  exclusion that 
might apply to the OWG  bond. The exceptions included not investing more than 10% of the 
portfolio in any security  that isnt listed or quoted on a regulated  market.  But, from what  Ive 
seen, the OWG bond may have been listed on a division of the Nasdaq  Nordic alternative 
stock exchange.  
But I havent looked further into whether the OWG bond was an allowable  investment or not. 
Thats because I think the bond  represented more risk than Mr H had indicated, via Quays,  
that he was prepared to take.
The investment agreement between Quays and the DFM  dated  1 October 2015 makes it 
clear that the DFM was obliged, when investing  on a particular clients  behalf, to do so in 
accordance with the clients agreed  ATR. The DFM was also required to take into account 
the need for diversification. I understand that here all the money  transferred to the DFM  for 
investment (£109,000)  was invested  in a single asset  the OWG bond. 
I understand a series  of bonds  were  issued by Optima  Worldwide Group (OWG), an 
investment company which  had acquired the DFM in September  2014. I think the bonds  
were invested (by acquiring equity or making loans)  in UK or overseas businesses  and 
secured by a fixed or floating charge on corporate  assets, including  shares,  patents,  
machinery, vehicles and property. The investment involved making corporate loans to 
businesses that needed capital and couldnt access it by other means.  I think  that suggests  a 
high level of default might  be incurred and which might  not be adequately covered by the 
security taken. The bond was likely to involve a considerable degree of risk. 
It also promised a return of 8% pa. At the time the Bank of England  base rate was around 
0.5%. The return indicated far exceeded what might be available from a standard savings 
account. That would suggest that a considerable degree of risk was likely to be involved. 
And investing in a single  asset  meant there  was a lack of diversification which increased the 
level of risk further, especially as the bond was itself higher risk. 
Ref: DRN10896847I dont think investing  all the funds passed  to the DFM  in the OWG  bond  was compatible with 
a medium ATR. I think  the bond  represented more risk than Quays had indicated that Mr H 
was prepared to take. 
Quays did express unhappiness to the DFM. And Quays reported  the matter  to the regulator. 
The adjudicator said that Quays should  have recalled the money. But I dont think, once the 
money had been  passed  over to the DFM, that Quays or the SIPP  provider, could have 
reversed the transaction.  And it seems  that both Quays and the SIPP provider asked the 
DFM to return the money but the DFM didnt cooperate. And despite assuring  Quays  that it 
wouldnt invest clients in other than readily realisable investments as defined  by the FCA 
Glossary. The OWG bond was illiquid and cant be described as readily  realisable.  
Ive taken into account the DFMs part in the matter in deciding fair redress and the extent  to 
which Quays is responsible for Mr Hs losses. 
I went on to set out how Quays  should redress Mr H. 
Quays accepted my provisional decision and my proposed redress. 
Mr H also accepted the decision in principle. But his representative  suggested  my proposed 
redress should be amended: First, Mr Hs loss should be based  on the notional value of his 
previous pension, rather than the benchmark Id suggested. And, secondly, Mr H was still 
liable for charges in respect of his SIPP so an award for those should be made. 
In my provisional decision Id said that I didnt know what the current  position  was with Mr 
Hs SIPP. The original SIPP provider had ceased  trading and a new provider had stepped in. 
But I didnt know if Mr H had any funds left in his SIPP  and if he was still being  charged SIPP  
fees. I said Mr Hs representative should let us know what the position  was in response  to 
my provisional decision. 
As it seemed Mr H was still incurring  SIPP fees I considered that and we then contacted 
Quays. We said my (provisional) view was that the SIPP  was unsuitable and Mr H only had 
the SIPP because  of Quays unsuitable  advice.  In the circumstances I thought it would be 
fair and reasonable to include an award  in respect of future SIPP  fees of two years at the 
current rate to allow time for the situation  with the DFM to be sorted out and the SIPP to be 
closed. I said the award  would  be conditional on Mr H producing, if Quays required, 
evidence that the SIPP remains open and that Mr H is liable for ongoing  fees. 
Quays replied.  It asked  us to get evidence from the current SIPP  provider regarding  the 
annual fee (which it believed was £228  pa). It would then add two years fees at the current 
rate. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted my provisional decision in principle at least.  I dont have 
anything to add to what Ive already said about the merits of the complaint.  
As to the redress, what I set out in my provisional decision is based on the notional  value of 
Mr Hs pension, had he remained with his existing provider. Ive said Quays needs to 
Ref: DRN10896848compare that with what his fund would  have been worth had it been invested  in line with his 
medium ATR  which is where the benchmark comes in. That reflects Quays part in the 
matter  its unsuitable advice to transfer  to a SIPP.  I didnt think,  for the reasons I explained, 
that Quays was responsible for all Mr Hs losses. So a comparison with what his fund would 
have been worth had he remained with his existing provider and the current  value of his 
SIPP wouldnt be appropriate. 
As Ive set out above, we explained to Quays that Id considered if an award for ongoing 
SIPP fees should be made.  Quays  has accepted what we said and has asked us to confirm 
the annual fee so that Quays  can add it to the redress  payment. Weve put that in hand and 
well let Quays know once  weve had confirmation  from the SIPP provider as to the amount 
Mr H is being charged.  
Ive said two years SIPP  fees. I think thats a reasonable  period  within  which to expect that 
the issues concerning  the DFM to be sorted  out, allowing for the SIPP to be closed if Mr H 
wishes and further  fees avoided. 
In some cases we might  allow a longer period, perhaps if the SIPP  cant be closed because  
it holds an illiquid asset, the value of which is uncertain and its unclear  if any value will be 
realised at some point in the future and, if so, when. I dont think  the situation  in this case  is 
quite the same. Here the DFM is in administration and so the timetable for any value to be 
realised from the assets held by the DFM should be shorter and more  reliable.   
We are making enquiries of the SIPP provider to ascertain the current fees payable  by Mr H 
and well notify Quays once we hear further so that the appropriate amount (equivalent to 
two years SIPP fees at current rates)  can be added to the redress payment. 
Aside from that my views remain as set out in my provisional decision. Ive repeated the 
redress below, adjusted  to reflect what  Ive said about the SIPP fees.
fair redress
As Ive said,  Im not convinced the recommendation  to transfer was suitable. I think  Mr H 
should have been advised to retain  his existing pension plan. 
To redress Mr H, Quays should  compare  what Mr Hs fund would have been worth  if hed 
remained with his existing  provider and what it would have been worth if it had been  invested 
in line with his medium ATR. 
The FTSE Private Investors  Income  Total Return  Index  would  be an appropriate comparator. 
Mr H wanted capital  growth and was prepared  to take some  risk. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Income total return index) is made  up of a range of indices with different asset classes,  
mainly UK equities and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
The calculation should be done from the date of the transfer to the SIPP  up to the date of my 
final decision. An up to date transfer value  will need to be obtained  from Mr Hs previous 
provider. 
The loss, if any, should be paid into Mr Hs pension plan to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment  should allow for the effect  of charges 
Ref: DRN10896849and any available  tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If Quays is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Hs pension plan, it should be paid direct 
to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. So the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow  for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Hs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  
at the selected  retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If 
Mr H would have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction should  be applied  to 
75% of the compensation.
Quays must  also pay Mr H the equivalent of two years SIPP fees at the current  rate. 
Quays must  also make a payment  of £300 to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience that 
Mr H has suffered. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Quays Wealth Management  Limited must redress Mr H as Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1089684