K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about  their mortgage  endowment policy. They are unhappy with 
the amount they received  at maturity, which was less than they paid into the policy and less 
than half the amount the policy was targeted for. In addition, Mr and Mrs P say they were 
told at the time the policy was sold it would pay off their mortgage and leave them with a 
surplus. The Royal London Mutual  Insurance  Society Limited is responsible for the advice 
Mr and Mrs P received.
background
Mr and Mrs P arranged  their endowment policy in 1994. The policy has a sum assured and 
target value  of £27,000 and a term of 25 years. It was invested equally between with-profits  
and managed funds.  
From 2000  Mr and Mrs P were  sent letters by Royal London telling them  there was a high 
risk of their policy not reaching its target value of £27,000 at the end of the term. They  raised 
concerns about  the size of the shortfall  and performance of the policy in 2000,  2011, 2018 
and 2019. 
Royal London provided Mr and Mr P with a detailed explanation of their policy  and its 
performance in 2011. It provided them with rights to refer their complaint to this service,  but it 
doesnt appear they did. A similar  explanation  and referral rights were  also issued in 2018 in 
response to Mr and Mrs Ps concerns. When they raised their concerns again  in 2019, they 
were referred back to the 2018 explanation and referral rights.
In 2005 and 2016 Mr and Mrs P also indicated that they were  looking at altering their 
mortgage arrangements to deal with the shortfall. 
It appears that Mr and Mrs Ps concerns  about  the information they were  given at the time of 
the sale were referred to the business  that sold them  it. It also seems likely that an offer of 
compensation was made in 2012,  which Mr and Mrs P accepted.
The policy matured with a shortfall  in excess of £11,000.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy following the responses from Royal London  and referred 
their complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our adjudicators, who didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the adjudicators  conclusions  and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  They said they had an endowment policy with another  
company and that one paid out what it said it would. As such, they consider their policy with 
Royal London must have been  managed badly.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P paid their premium each month and Royal London had to invest the premium,  
taking costs as and when required from the fund. As far as I can see that is exactly  what it 
did. Growth  over the 25 year term has turned the premiums paid into a maturity  value which  
unfortunately was less than hoped for.  
Ref: DRN16726732Mr and Mrs P were  warned  about the policys  progress. It was made  clear  that the policy 
was not performing as expected and was unlikely to reach its target value. Mr and Mrs P 
were encouraged to take action to deal with this situation and it appears they looked into 
doing so on more than one occasion.
If I were  to uphold his complaint I would need  to be able to explain exactly why. Here, Royal 
London did what it had to do. Mr and Mrs P have known about the poor performance of the 
policy for some time and that the maturity value wasnt  guaranteed.  I know  that 
Mr and Mrs P believe the performance  of this policy in comparison with another  is evidence 
that Royal London did something wrong.  If I look across the industry I see most businesses,  
indeed most  investment classes, having  similar  problems. The economic and regulatory 
situation is very different now from what it was in 1994. That is nothing to do with this 
business. 
I dont know where Royal  Londons investment returns sit in any table  of results but it will 
no doubt be more  successful than some but less successful than others.  Being able to say 
that, looking back, different investment decisions would  have  been  more profitable than the 
ones actually taken  is a statement of the obvious.  To make judgments like that, however, 
would be to use hindsight  in making a decision.  I cannot use hindsight  in making a decision.  
A very large number of decisions  over a 25 year period relating to investments,  costs and 
charges have been made by the investment managers at Royal  London. Those decisions 
were made in a regulated environment with layers of governance, independent scrutiny 
(such as by actuaries and the regulator) and oversight. Royal  London is correct  in saying 
some of the factors influencing returns were  outside its control. Even  if I were  to try and drill 
down to individual decisions it is very unlikely that I could point to an individual decision  or 
set of decisions which were, without using hindsight, so manifestly bad or wrong that redress  
should be paid.  
I am afraid the simple fact here is that Mr and Mrs P invested in an investment product which 
has performed badly (or not as well as hoped). I have seen no grounds for upholding this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 June  2019.
Derry Baxter 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1672673