K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains in his capacity as the director of a limited company (Ill call R) about 
Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to reject  a claim under a commercial insurance  policy.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in August 2019  and set out the background to the complaint 
as follows:
Rs premises were broken into and thieves  stole  a quantity of cash and tobacco products. An 
amount of damage  was also caused while forcing entry.
Aviva instructed a loss adjuster  and an investigation  was carried  out. During this CCTV 
footage was viewed and while a burglary was apparent Aviva concluded that the claim was 
fraudulently exaggerated. This was based on the quantity of tobacco products alleged to 
have been taken. Mr A had submitted  a claim for 427 packets (circa £5,000)  but Aviva  said 
the bag the thieves carried out suggested  a lot less were taken. Aviva rejected the claim on 
the basis that the claim was exaggerated for financial  gain.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  Aviva  had sufficiently 
shown that the claim was exaggerated or fraudulent.  She said Aviva should  consider the 
claim and work out a figure based on the evidence available and add interest to that amount. 
She also said that Aviva should remove any fraud  marker it had added and pay Mr A £300  
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Aviva disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  the case on the basis  that it was for 
Mr A to prove his loss. And he couldnt do that because he had no system of stock  control  
inventory and his method of calculating  what was missing relied on the shelves being  full at 
the time of the burglary.
I explained why I thought  Aviva should  settle Rs claim as follows:
Under the policy R is covered for damage, theft and business interruption all of which are 
subject to financial limits  and policy terms. But where a claim is fraudulent or fraudulently  
exaggerated Aviva  may,  among other things, refuse to pay a claim.
There is no dispute that a burglary took place and that property  was damaged  and items 
taken. The crux of the issue in dispute is about the quantity of tobacco  products taken. From  
the outset Mr A said he didnt know what quantity  was taken and he made a best guess 
advising Aviva  of the methodology used to calculate the loss. I dont think its unusual  for a 
small business like R not to keep real-time  stock quantity figures; purchases are made  and 
stock sold. While there are requirements  in terms of making various  returns to relevant 
authorities about profit and loss and VAT there isnt such a requirement  for real-time stock 
levels.
I have viewed the CCTV provided and it shows different angles of the thieves  taking tobacco  
products and putting them into a bag. The challenge for Mr A though  was providing accurate 
information to support  his claim.  I dont  think the methodology  Mr A used to calculate  the 
tobacco loss was an unrealistic method but I accept Avivas concerns that accuracy was 
inherently challengeable. It relied  on Mr A being accurate about  the start stock  level and he 
said it was usual to restock  before  the business closed for the evening. 
Ref: DRN14507832I am persuaded that Mr A in presenting his claim gave sufficient caveats and explanation 
such that while it was fair for Aviva to challenge the accuracy, it wasnt  in my view 
deliberately untruthful such that it can be said to be fraudulent or fraudulently exaggerated. 
That said,  the next issue is how to put things right. The burden is on R to prove  the loss 
claimed and in the absence of contemporaneous stock  levels  Im not satisfied  Mr A has 
provided enough information  to show 427 packets were stolen. From the CCTV images  and 
photographs of a bag apparently containing  circa 420 packets, I am persuaded the bag of 
tobacco the thieves carried out was significantly smaller and highly unlikely  to contain the 
number of packs claimed. 
I accept that proving the exact amount is virtually impossible but comparing the CCTV 
images to the bag said to contain the same amount of tobacco  I think it reasonable to 
conclude it is approximately one fifth of the size. And so Aviva should pay one fifth of the 
amount claimed.
The investigator asked  Aviva to pay compensation to Mr A for distress  and inconvenience.  
But a limited company  is a separate legal entity from the people who run it. So we cant  
compensate the directors or shareholders personally. There may be occasions  where  we 
think the limited company  has suffered  inconvenience  but I see no evidence  of such  in this 
case. As such I dont  intend to make a compensatory award.
To put things right I said Aviva should do the following:
Remove any fraud marker in relation to this claim  from any database it may have 
been recorded on
Pay one fifth of the amount claimed  for tobacco products adding  simple interest at 
8% per year from the date of burglary to date of payment 
Pay the £300 cash adding simple interest  at 8% per year from the date of burglary to 
date of payment
Resolve the damage  caused during the forced entry either by repairing it or paying a 
cash settlement adding simple interest at 8% per year from the date of burglary to 
date of payment  (Mr A will need to provide evidence of the cost he paid for the 
damage caused which doesnt  include any upgrade  to more secure measures. Such  
evidence would  usually be a receipt issued  after repair and payment).
replies to my provisional  decision
Rs representative responded asking  if legal fees and costs  in relation to pursuing  the matter.  
And Aviva didnt accept  my provisional decision. Avivas main  points are summarised as 
follows:
Its clear that 427 packets were  not stolen, and R hasnt provided an explanation but 
maintained the figure was worked out afterwards. 
This is a clear exaggeration and its not accepted the quantity claimed was a guess.
The fact that I have said Aviva should  pay one-fifth of the claim shows Rs calculation 
is flawed.
R has said it would accept an amount that Aviva thought represented the loss. But 
any customer genuinely believing they have lost something wouldnt  accept  a lesser 
amount.
The policy is clear that Aviva may refuse  to pay a claim where  it is fraudulently 
exaggerated or supported by a false statement.
Ref: DRN14507833my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the replies, to decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this case centres  on the issue of whether the exaggeration was fraudulent and/or 
the claim supported  by a false statement.
I remain satisfied that the amount initially claimed for tobacco  products is, in all likelihood, 
more than was actually taken. But I am mindful that Mr A gave a methodology of how he 
calculated that amount  based on the usual activity of an evening where he would  replace  the 
stock. Its apparent that activity may not have taken  place,  or to the extent that it usually did. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that the claim may have been 
exaggerated in so far as the amount claimed was more than was taken.
But the exaggeration has to be fraudulent, so Ive thought again about this. Fraud  isnt 
defined in the policy and Aviva has referred  to Mr A attempting to gain financial benefit  from 
part of the claim he isnt entitled to. The Fraud Act 2006 provides useful information about 
fraud and so Ive taken  this into account,  particularly  what it says about fraud by false 
representation.
It seems  to me that Mr A made a representation  about the tobacco products he thought had 
been taken, which has turned out to be incorrect. But the question is whether he acted 
dishonestly in giving this information  intending to make a gain for himself  (or another). From 
all the information  Ive seen the methodology used by Mr A to calculate what he thought  had 
been taken was made known to Aviva. And in the original report  to Avivas loss adjuster its 
recorded that Mr A didnt  know exactly how many cigarettes had been taken. It was always  
an inherently flawed  methodology  because it was conditional on the storage  cabinet being 
stocked and Mr A could only say that was something he usually did. 
I accept that there was some equivocation and uncertainty on Mr As behalf when he was in 
discussion with the loss adjuster. But it was always clear that he was guessing the quantity 
stolen using a conditional methodology that was always made  clear  to Aviva. It was apparent  
from the initial reports to the loss adjuster  that Mr A didnt know  exactly what had been taken 
and how hed tried to calculate  what his loss was. Taking everything into account  Im 
satisfied that the information on quantity  was incorrect. But Im not satisfied that Mr A acted 
dishonestly knowing the representation was or might have been untrue or misleading. 
Rs representative has asked if the fees for legal  representation in dealing  with the complaint 
against Aviva can be covered. I explained  to the representative that these are not costs wed 
usually require Aviva  to pay. And having thought  about this further Im not satisfied it would 
be fair to require Aviva to do so in this case. We are a free service  and the representative in 
their professional role will have their own duty in advising Mr A about the extent of legal 
costs involved and also other options to pursue his complaint. This was a relatively  simple  
matter of a rejected claim and Aviva issued a final response stating that the matter could be 
referred to us free of charge. Im not going to require Aviva  to pay the representatives legal 
costs.
Ref: DRN14507834my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and to put things Aviva must do the following:
Remove any fraud marker in relation to this claim  from any database it may have 
been recorded on.
Pay one fifth of the amount claimed  for tobacco products adding  simple interest at 
8% per year from the date of burglary to date of payment. 
Pay the £300 cash adding simple interest  at 8% per year from the date of burglary to 
date of payment.
Resolve the damage  caused during the forced entry either by repairing it or paying a 
cash settlement adding simple interest at 8% per year from the date of burglary to 
date of payment  (Mr A will need to provide evidence of the cost he paid for the 
damage caused which doesnt  include any upgrade  to more secure measures. Such  
evidence would  usually be a receipt issued  after repair and payment).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A on behalf  of 
R to accept or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1450783