K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2009. 
Mrs B says Black Horse  Limited mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold during a telephone call at the same time the loan was taken out.  During 
that telephone call, Black Horse shouldve made Mrs B aware the policy was optional.   
Unfortunately Black  Horse  no longer has a copy  of the call recording  from the actual sale but 
it has given us a call script it says would  have been used by its representatives at the time. I 
can see from the script that it wouldve asked Mrs B if she wanted to add the cover. From 
what I know about how Black Horse sold these policies at the time, nothing Mrs B has said 
makes me think the representative didnt follow the script. 
Black Horse  has also provided a copy of Mrs Bs credit agreement. On there is has a section 
headed optional payment protection plan,  and it asks applicants  to sign separately from the 
borrowing to agree to taking  the PPI. On Mrs Bs form shes  signed in agreement  to take out 
the PPI. 
So overall, I think Black Horse made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Black Horse  recommended  the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
Mrs B says she was suffering from a medical condition  she had at the time. Looking  at what  
shes told us about her condition, it seems  like it was controlled. So I think  its unlikely Mrs B 
would have thought this would be the main reason she might have needed to claim on the 
policy in the future. And it doesnt look like she wasnt affected by any of the other exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  So I dont 
think Black  Horse was wrong  to recommend the policy was suitable  for her.
Mrs B says she would  have received six months  full followed by six months half sick pay 
benefits from her employer. The PPI would have  paid the monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Mrs B was made unemployed and for 24 months if she was off work due to an 
accident or sickness. The policy would have paid out alongside to any sick pay she wouldve 
got  allowing her to use her employer benefits for other important expenses.  And it doesnt 
look like she had any other  means to make  her repayments if she was too unwell to work or 
became unemployed. So I think she couldve found the policy  useful.  
From what  Ive seen its possible the information  Black Horse gave Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But it seems  like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN13641712Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Black  Horse didnt tell     
Mrs B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1364171