K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about Michael  Meese  and Associates  (Meese  and Associates),  an 
appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited (Tenet). A representative initially made  
the complaint  on Mr Rs behalf. The representative  said Meese and Associates switched 
Mr Rs personal  pension  plan to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP), so he could make  
an investment in a commercial development in Spain called Resina Golf. The representative 
says the transaction was not execution only, as Tenet suggests. It says Mr R was given 
advice by Meese and Associates. And that the advice was unsuitable. 
background
the complaint
Mr R is one of a group of four consumers (who were part of a wider group  of investors)  who 
have brought  similar  complaints  to us. In the complaint form submitted to us on behalf  of 
Mr R, his representative says:
Mr R was introduced to Meese  and Associates in order  to invest in a golf course  in 
Spain (Resina Golf). 
Mr R was told by Meese  and Associates advisor  that he too was investing in the 
development.
Mr R was informed by Meese and Associates that he could switch his pension into a 
SIPP to finance  the investment.
Meese and Associates arranged a switch to a SIPP, and then a further switch to a 
different SIPP.  
Mr R has since discovered he owns shares  in a company  which owns land adjacent  
to a golf course and has planning permission to develop, but that there is no intention  
to complete the development.
Mr R did not understand what execution  only meant and thought  the documents he 
signed (which confirmed Meese and Associates had acted in an execution only 
capacity) were part of the switch  or transfer process.  
Tenet is not right to say that the transactions were carried  out by Meese and 
Associates on an execution only basis. Mr R was given  advice. 
Mr R cant  now transfer his pension  elsewhere  and is trapped  in the SIPP,  continuing 
to pay charges. 
Resina Golf
The investment Mr R made took the form of shares  in an unlisted  company called Resina 
Golf. The business  of the company was property development.  It intended  to purchase land 
adjacent to a golf course  in Spain  with a view to acquiring planning permission and then 
building a number  of luxury villas on in it. The lifespan of the investment was forecast  to be 
five to ten years. 
Ref: DRN13390842the investment group
Mr R (and the other three consumers who have made  similar complaints) was one of a 
group of nine friends and family who each made a number  of property investments. All those 
in the group were introduced to the property investments by a Mr S. Mr S had previously 
worked as a regulated advisor but, at the time of the Resina Golf investment, did not work  for 
a regulated business and was not authorised  to carry out any regulated activities. 
Some of the group (who have not made  complaints) have provided witness statements, 
which Tenet has submitted to us. The statements are broadly  similar, and include  the 
following recollections: 
The investors were all introduced  to Resina Golf by Mr S. 
Mr S had led them to consider using their frozen pensions to invest  in Resina Golf.
A number of the group had visited Spain to view the land Resina Golf intended to 
develop. 
Mr S acted  as middleman between all the investors and Resina Golf. 
All the investors  were made aware  that Resina Golf was a long term investment and 
they may not be able to get their money back quickly. They expected  to receive  a 
good return in about five years. 
They had each  taken  the decision to invest in Resina Golf under guidance  from Mr S, 
without receiving any advice from Meese and Associates. 
Mr S had discussed the investment  with them, including the potential risks and 
returns. 
Meese and Associates was approached to execute the switch or transfer of their 
existing pensions to a SIPP. They were told Meese and Associates was a qualified  
advisor, required to facilitate the switches  or transfers. 
All the group met with Meese  and Associates for around  two hours to discuss 
matters.
At no time before  during or after the meeting did any of the group ask Meese and 
Associates for any advice.
Meese and Associates advisor  told the members of the group during the meeting 
that he had not seen  any of the documentation  regarding Resina Golf.
Each member of the group  had signed  a statement confirming Meese  and Associates 
had only provided  an execution only service. They (those providing the witness 
statements) think all the group  understood what this meant. 
Ref: DRN13390843One of the statements says Meese and Associates was approached to facilitate a switch to a 
specific SIPP operator. The others say only that Meese and Associates was approached to 
facilitate a switch  or transfer, without mentioning a specific SIPP  operator.  In all cases  the 
statements say they were told Meese  and Associates became involved as a regulated  
advisor was needed to facilitate the switch  or transfer. 
Meese and Associates and Mr S.
Meese and Associates entered into a Professional Introducer Agreement  with Mr S in 
February 2009. The agreement between Meese and Associates and Mr S said the 
introducer shall not provide any investment advice to the clients.
Meese and Associates advisors recollections
Meese and Associates advisor has said he recalls the following about the transaction: 
In the case of [Mr R] he was a business owner, owning a roofing contractor business, as
well as a convenience store. He lived in a large detached property, which  he disclosed to
me was worth  more  than £800,000 and he had recently spent £250,000 renovating the
property. He assured  me he was more than capable of exercising his own judgement with
regard to transferring  his pension and making  the investment he did utilising  his pension
fund. He had made  investments in land abroad  alreadyI  can confirm that I met [Mr R]
on one occasion  only and thereafter  our contact was via correspondence  or by telephone.
At no time did I ever make any kind of recommendation  and in fact was at pains to repeat
several times during the meeting that I could not give any information on MW Pensions  or
Resina Golf Limited or comment  on the suitability of what  he wanted to do.
His application to MW pensions took place  in September 2009  and was completed in
October 2009. In December 2009  I was contacted by [Mr R] because  MW Pension  would
not allow investment  into Resina  Golf Limited without the investment  being recommended
by an Adviser and I personally could not recommend the investment.
The group had identified another Sipp provider who would allow investment in to Resina
Golf. They  were Sippcentre Manchester Limited.  I then forwarded  forms to him in order  that 
he could move his fund to the Sippcentre and make  his investment.
Mr Rs recollections
Mr R says that he was initially told about Resina Golf by Mr S, and that he visited Spain to 
view the site that was to be developed,  as well as another development which  one of the 
previous investments hed previous made  with Mr S was apparently going to be switched to. 
When asked by us who had recommended the SIPPs  he switched into, he said it had been  
Meese and Associates advisor. 
Mr R has also told us he never  saw the prospectus for Resina Golf and that the only 
document he received in relation to his investments  in Resina Golf was a share  certificate. 
He also says he never attended  a group meeting  with Meese and Associates.  
Mr R said hed made the following other property investments: 
Ref: DRN13390844Dominican Republic - invested £90,000, funded by savings and a remortgage of his 
home.
South  of France/Lake Geneva  - invested  £10,000.
Morocco - invested £15,000.
Mr R says all these investments were introduced to him by Mr S who would invite  him to visit 
the sites of the developments and effectively "sell" those investments by explaining what the 
likely return  would be.
Mr R also commented that these other investments  had lost him money. When asked why 
he made the investments in Resina Golf in these circumstances, he said:
All the investments introduced by [Mr S] were  expected to take some time to mature i.e. 
sometimes years. As he recognised I was keen to invest when I could he simply kept rolling 
out investments  for me all of which appeared to be good. It was only towards the end that I 
realised that what I thought was to be happening with my investments  was not happening at 
all and what I had been told just was not materialising. I started  and continued until I became 
aware that things  were  not as they should be but by then I had already committed  myself. 
When asked about his financial circumstances at the time of the Resina Golf investment 
Mr R told us he owned four residential properties  and six commercial  properties, and had 
mortgages and loans of about  £1m in total. He said he had £70,000 in savings  and an 
annual income  of around the same amount. 
the investment process
Mr R initially switched his pension to a SIPP which would  not allow the investment in Resina 
Golf to be made as proposed. So he then switched  to a second  SIPP  which would allow  the 
investment to go ahead  on the basis proposed. 
Meese and Associates first had contact  with Mr R in March 2009. At that time a letter  was 
sent to Mr R by Meese and Associates  which said, in relation to Mr Rs pensions:
I have been passed your details by [Mr S} of the above company. I understand that you are 
considering transferring your pension into a MW Self Invested  Pension Scheme and that you 
would like me to assist you in this matter on an Execution Only Basis.
I will be writing  to you again with more details of the process involved,  however  in the 
meantime I should  be grateful  if you would sign the enclosed transfer of servicing rights form 
to Windsor Life and Prudential Assurance so that I may obtain some  information on the 
pension you have with them.
The following  documents formed part of the investment process, in the order  listed:  
1.the execution only letter. Mr R signed two pre-prepared execution  only letters  
written to Meese and Associates (one for each of the switches).  The first letter  said:
EXECUTION ONLY  SERVICE
I write to confirm that I have not received  any information, advice or recommendation from
you or your firm in respect of my decision to transfer my pensions with Windsor Life and
Prudential to MW Pensions Limited and invest in Resina Golf Limited utilising my pension
Ref: DRN13390845fund held with the MW Pensions.
I understand that this is an illiquid  investment and therefore should  I decide to disinvest there
may be a delay before I am able to do this.
The second  letter said:  
EXECUTION ONLY  SERVICE
I write to confirm that I have not received  any information, advice or recommendation from
you or your firm in respect of my decision to transfer my pension with MW Pensions to
Sippcentre Manchester  Ltd and invest in Resina Golf Limited utilising my pension fund.
I understand that this is an illiquid  investment and therefore should  I decide to disinvest there 
may be a delay before I am able to do this.
The remainder of the letters only appear to have been sent in relation  to the initial  switch.  
2.the confirmation letter. Meese and Associates wrote  a letter  to Mr R headed 
Execution Only Service which said:
Firstly thank you for signing and returning  the amended MW 2 Sipp declaration confirming
no advice has been given. I have forwarded it on to MW Pensions.
I confirm acting on your instructions I have submitted your application to MW Pensions
with the accompanying discharge  paperwork from your current  pension  providers.
You are aware that this transaction  is an execution  only transaction,  meaning that you have
not asked for advice  or received any information or advice from me or my firm in respect
the suitability of this transaction.
It is your decision alone  to transfer  your Standard Life and RAC pensions  to the Sippcentre
and make an investment  into Resina  Golf Limited.
We take no responsibility for either  the pension product with the Sippcentre or the
investments suitability.
Our fees as discussed and agreed  with you is 5% of the fund value of the pension, and this 
will be deducted from the pension fund once it is received by the MW Pension.
I think this letter has been at least partly copied  and pasted from a letter to another 
consumer in the group, without being amended,  as it refers  to their pensions  rather  than the 
Windsor Life and Prudential pensions which were held by Mr R. 
3.the explanation letter. Mr S wrote  a letter to Meese and Associates explaining the 
circumstances of the introduction of Mr R to Meese and Associates. The letter said:
Following your request  I am writing to you to confirm the circumstances surrounding the 
introduction of [Mr R] to yourself  by me. [Mr R] is an existing contact of mine  and I introduced  
him to you in early  2009 after he had decided he wanted to transfer  his pensions to MW 
Pensions and use his pension fund to buy shares in Resina Golf Limited.
Ref: DRN13390846During that meeting you made  it very clear to [Mr R] that you could not provide advice, any 
information on or confirm  the suitability of his decision to transfer his pension  to the [first 
SIPP operator] and invest the money  in the pension in Resina  Golf Limited shares.  You 
informed him your role was to receive his instructions and to carry these out for which  a fee 
would be charged.  He confirmed he was happy  to proceed. I can confirm that he was aware  
of and understood that the transaction was being carried  out on an execution only basis and 
that no liability fell on you as to the suitability of what he had decided to do.
This letter appears to omit a opening  paragraph  referring to a meeting, which was included 
in the letters  sent to the other members of the group. 
4.the advisor declarations.  Meese  and Associates  advisor signed an Advisor  
Declaration and Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration which were provided by the 
SIPP operator. The Off Panel  Illiquid Investment Declaration said Meese and 
Associates had:
made the client aware of the risk factors and terms and conditions for the investment 
named above,  set out in the key features and/or prospectus and other documentation 
provided, and the issues  set out above.  The Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration  also 
confirmed that the client  has been  made  aware of the above issues  and notwithstanding,  still 
wishes to proceed with the investment.
The issues set out above the Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration referred to were:
1.The risk factors are covered in the key features document and/or the prospectus. 
You must consider these carefully  before deciding either to make this investment.
2.There may not be a cooling  off, or cancellation,  period. Once the application form 
and monies are submitted encashment of the investment may not be possible, or 
may be difficult before the end of any specified term.
3.If there  is no liquid  market in the investment, selling/encashing the investment to 
pay benefits, or for re-investment may be very difficult. This could result in delays 
or restrictions on the benefits payable,
4.Also, if there is no liquid market in the investment, it may be difficult for us to 
obtain a valuation for accounting purposes. If we are unable  to obtain an up to 
date market value  from the manager of the investment, it is our standard policy to 
value such investments at cost (less  any amounts already paid out) for 
accounting purposes
5.If benefits are to commence under your clients  pension, or a review of limits 
under income withdrawal  is required, then we are obliged by the Her Majestys  
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to use the market value of assets  when calculating  
the benefits available, if we are unable to obtain an up to dale market  value, we 
may have to value  the investment at cost (less any amounts  already paid out) or 
give the investment  a nil value (if the investment cannot be realised at that time).
Ref: DRN133908476.In the event of death, liquid funds may be required to pay a lump  sum and/or 
pension benefits  to the members  dependants. Certain tax benefits are available 
for the payment of a lump sum benefit,  as long as this is paid within 2 years  of the 
date of death of the member. By the SIPP owning assets that are not readily 
realisable, such tax benefits  may be jeopardised and the payment of death 
benefits may be delayed.
7.The charges  for this type of investment may be higher than those for other types 
of investment. You must ensure  that you understand the nature and level of the 
charges payable before committing to make the investment. Additional  costs  may 
be incurred by [the SIPP operator]  in relation  to the administration  of such  
investments, which will be payable from the SIPP.  
8.If the organisation offering the investment or the investment itself are not 
recognised or authorised by the UK Financial Services Authority, your client will 
not have the protection of the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme or 
be able to complain  to the Financial Services Ombudsman. However, the 
investment may be subject to regulation in another country and you should 
provide your client with more information as required.
The Advisor  Declaration  said:
I confirm that any commission due will be disclosed to the client and that I am authorised  to 
give investment instructions on their behalf. 
I confirm that where the investor must  meet eligibility  criteria to make  a particular investment 
(eg where an investor must be a sophisticated or high net worth investor), these criteria have 
been met. 
Mr R signed the first execution only letter on 14 September  2009  and the second  on 10 
January 2010.  
The authorisation for Prudential to pay the transfer  value was signed on 3 June 2009. This 
was witnessed  by Mr S. The authorisation for Windsor Life to pay the transfer value was 
signed on the same day by Mr R. There is no witness section on this form. Mr R signed  the 
application form to open the first SIPP on 14 September 2009. The named advisor on the 
application was Meese and Associates. The money from his Prudential  and Windsor Life 
pensions was switched  into the first SIPP.
Meese and Associates sent the confirmation  letter to Mr R on 27 September  2009.  And on 
25 September 2009 the explanation letter was sent from Mr S to Meese and Associates. 
I understand the operator of the first SIPP would not allow the Resina Golf investment to be 
made unless  Meese and Associates confirmed  it had given advice to Mr R. Meese and 
Associates was not able to do this and, accordingly,  another SIPP  operator  was sought. As 
set out above,  there are different accounts  from the parties to the complaint about  who it was 
that found the alternative operator. 
Mr R signed the second SIPP application on 7 December 2009. The named advisor on that 
application was also Meese and Associates. The money held in the first SIPP was switched 
to this second SIPP. 
Ref: DRN13390848After Mr Rs money was switched to the new SIPP, three applications were made to invest in 
Resina Golf:
A £50,000 application on 4 March 2010.  
A £5,000  application on 2 June 2010.  
A £1,000  application on 21 September 2010.  
Meese and Associates advisor signed  the Advisor Declaration on 2 March 2010,  27 May 
2010 and 23 September  2010.  He signed the Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration on 
the same  dates. 
On 3 March 2010,  the SIPP operator had e-mailed  Meese and Associates advisor, in 
response to a query from him. The email  from the SIPP operator said:
Please find attached a copy of our Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration, as discussed  in 
our earlier telephone conversation. 
I understand your concerns surrounding the declaration when  you have not made  the clients 
aware of the risk factors,  terms and conditions of the pension transfers as they have been 
completed execution  only. However we still require the declaration to be completed  for the 
investments to go ahead. If you are satisfied that the clients have received information  on 
the investment  and are aware  of the risk factors albeit not from you, we can accept the 
signed declaration on this basis.
Tenets guidance to its appointed representatives 
Tenets guidance to its appointed representatives, given in June 2009, about execution  only 
transactions says:  
Irrespective of whether  an adviser  is dealing with a client on an Execution Only basis  it is 
important to remember that they must  never arrange  a contract  if there is reason to believe 
that the investment is not in the clients best interests. This requirement relates  to specific  
FSA Rules. When faced with this sort of situation  the adviser must decline to act for the 
client.
There are also certain high-risk products that must  not be sold to retail clients without the 
benefit of financial  advice. Among these are Unregulated  Collective Investment Schemes  
including EIS, Occupational Pension Transfers and certain guaranteed products. These are 
complex investments  and ordinarily advisers should  not consider arranging  sales  on an 
Execution Only Basis.
Tenets submissions on merits
Tenet takes responsibility  for Meese  and Associates actions,  as that business  was 
Tenets appointed  representative. 
Mr R was a knowledgeable and experienced investor, and in particular a 
knowledgeable and experienced investor  in overseas properties. 
Ref: DRN13390849All the investors  in the group  to which Mr R belonged decided to invest  in Resina Golf 
before they were  introduced to Meese and Associates. 
The witness statements overwhelmingly support Tenets position  that Mr R has no 
grounds for complaint against Meese  and Associates.  
If any advice was given to Mr R then it must have  been given by Mr S. But that is 
irrelevant to the complaint against  Tenet. Mr S did not act on behalf of Meese and 
Associates or Tenet. 
Meese and Associates did not provide any advice in relation to the transfer of 
pension funds. Mr R acknowledged that he had not received advice. The letter  (which  
Ive called the execution only letter) could  not in its view have been  clearer.  
Meese and Associates warned  Mr R that the Resina Golf investment may be illiquid. 
I need to consider the guidance published on our website about execution only 
transactions. Following  that guidance should lead to the conclusion  the transaction 
here was an execution only one. 
Meese and Associates was under no duty to give advice to Mr R. Suitability 
considerations only apply where a personal  recommendation  has been made (COBS 
9.1.1R). Here, Meese and Associates made  no personal recommendation. 
In some circumstances  an appropriateness  test applies to execution  only business. It 
does not believe  that test applies here. 
Even if such a test did apply, Meese and Associates had sufficient evidence to 
support a conclusion  that an investment in Resina Golf was appropriate for Mr R. 
Tenets submissions on dismissal
Mr R is making  serious allegations against Meese and Associates advisor.  
There is a conflict in the evidence given by the members of the group. This needs to 
be explored by cross-examination. 
I should therefore decide that this is one of those cases  where  the subject matter of 
the complaint  means that it is more suitable for determination by a court  or means it 
should be dismissed without consideration of the merits,  for other  compelling  
reasons. 
further evidence on the merits of the complaint
We asked Tenet some  questions. We asked, in summary: 
How did Meese and Associates advisor satisfy himself that he was able to sign the 
SIPP operators Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration?
Did Meese  and Associates advisor  have regard to Tenets  guidance on execution 
only business when  deciding to act for Mr R?
Ref: DRN133908410What meetings does  Meese and Associates advisor recall taking place between him 
and Mr R? What  can Meese and Associates advisor recall being  discussed at those 
meetings?
Does Meese and Associates advisor know how Mr R found the SIPP  operator?  
Ive summarised the main  points made  in response  to these questions as follows:  
Each of the group  had said they were disappointed with the performance of their 
pensions, which werent worth  enough to form a realistic part of their retirement 
planning.
Each of the group  said they had read and understood the information  memorandum 
for Resina Golf, including the numerous risk warnings  it contained.  
Each of the group, were experienced investors acting together and it was clear  they 
were willing  to commit to long term investments.
Meese and Associates advisor  reasonably concluded that each  of the group,  
understood the investment and that it was appropriate to proceed in the light of their 
experience and circumstances. 
Meese and Associates advisor  was concerned about signing the SIPP operators 
declaration because he was only acting in an execution  only capacity. He discussed  
this with an advisor colleague (copies  of emails  have been provided  to evidence this 
discussion).
Following the discussion with an advisor  colleague, Meese and Associates advisor  
decided to meet with each of the members of the group individually  to check  they 
understood the terms and conditions of the investment, the implications and risks,  
and still wanted  to proceed. 
Meese and Associates advisor  also contacted the investment provider, who 
confirmed that any investor could  withdraw  up to the point share certificates  were  
issued. Each of the group were  told about this. The certificates  were  not issued  until 
October 2010, so the group had a considerable amount  of time to change  their mind, 
if they wanted to. 
Meese and Associates advisor  cant specifically recall Tenets guidance, but he 
would have had regard to any guidance provided  to him. In any event, we need to 
consider Meese  and Associates advisors  legal and regulatory  obligations.  Meese 
and Associates advisor was allowed by the regulator to complete business on an 
execution only basis, and was authorised  by Tenet to do so. 
Meese and Associates advisor  was provided with a copy of the information  
memorandum for Resina Golf at the meeting with the group. He reviewed it and 
discussed its contents with the group. 
Ref: DRN133908411The group  identified the SIPP operator  without the assistance of Meese and 
Associates advisor. He recalls Mr S telling  him that the provider of Resina Golf had 
mentioned which  SIPP operator would accept  the investment  on an execution only 
basis. 
my provisional findings
I recently issued a revised provisional decision. In short, my provisional findings were  that 
Meese and Associates should not have acted as it did, but this had not changed the course  
of events. I was satisfied that Mr R would  have gone ahead and made the investment even if 
Meese and Associates had acted differently. A copy of my provisional  findings is attached to 
this decision, and forms part of it. 
the responses to my provisional  findings
Tenet said it had no comments to make. 
Mr R said he did not agree with the decision.  In summary, he said:
As a result  of Meese and Associates advisor  advising  him to invest  in Resina Golf he 
has been left with a worthless  pension. This is not what  he was advised  would 
happen. He was led to believe that Resina Golf would generate sufficient money to 
increase his pension massively.  
He has carried out some online research into Tenet and has found that there have 
been others who have encountered the same issue, and have been compensated. 
He doesnt  see why he should  not be compensated,  for being mislead into moving 
his pension, and all the stress this has caused him. 
my findings
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision I remain satisfied this complaint is one I 
can and should  consider.  So Ive reconsidered  all the available  evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reconsidered  things, I have  not been persuaded to depart from my 
provisional findings. I appreciate Mr R has read reports  about  complaints he feels are the 
same as his, which have led to Tenet paying  compensation.  However, I must consider each 
complaint on the basis of what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of that particular 
complaint. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I am satisfied that the fair and 
reasonable outcome here is to not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
I do appreciate Mr R has lost a considerable amount of money. But for the reasons given in 
my provisional decision, I am satisfied Mr R would have made the investment in Resina Golf 
even if Meese and Associates had acted differently. And I have not seen sufficient  evidence  
to show Meese and Associates recommended the investment to Mr R. I remain  of the view 
advice was more  likely  given by Mr S, not Meese  and Associates advisor. 
Ref: DRN133908412To confirm, for the reasons set out in my attached provisional decision, my final findings  are 
that, acting fairly and reasonably, Meese and Associates should not have acted in an 
execution only capacity   it should  have either refused to act or given advice. But I am not 
persuaded that if Meese and Associates had given advice or refused to act that this would 
have changed  things. I think Mr R would have likely gone ahead and made the investment 
anyway. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN133908413copy provisional findings
As Tenet  says Mr Rs complaint should be dismissed  I have first considered all the available 
evidence, to decide whether this complaint is one I should look at. 
The relevant rules  here are the following sections  of DISP 3.3.4 Grounds for Dismissal:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint  referred to the Financial  Ombudsman Service before 9 
July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman  considers that:
(10) it would  be more suitable for the subject matter of the complaint to be dealt with by a court, 
arbitration or another complaints scheme; or
(17) there are other compelling reasons why it is inappropriate for the complaint to be dealt with under  
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I acknowledge there are some conflicts in the recollections of some of the parties  who have provided 
evidence. But I am satisfied that I can fairly decide this complaint, notwithstanding any conflicts  
between the recollections of some  of the parties involved. I am of the view the complaint is one on 
which I am able to make a decision on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied  
that decision can be made by reference to the available  evidence and relevant  law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what  I consider 
to have been  good industry practice at the time.  
I am therefore satisfied that this complaint is not one where the subject matter makes it more suitable 
to be dealt with by the courts.  Or that I should dismiss it for other compelling reasons. 
For completeness, I should also mention that I do not think an oral hearing is necessary in this case. 
Another ombudsman  has already dealt with Tenets request for an oral hearing. The ombudsman 
declined that request.  When doing so, he pointed out that we do not have the power to test evidence  
by cross-examination. So a request to conduct a hearing on this basis was misplaced. That remains 
the case. 
The ombudsman also pointed  out that, unlike  a court, we have the power to make our own 
investigation. Here I think a thorough investigation has taken  place. And both Tenet and 
Mr R have had ample opportunities to make submissions.  
As mentioned  above, I am also satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly  determine on the basis of the 
evidence available. So, like the other ombudsman, I do not think  a hearing is necessary  here. 
As I am satisfied this complaint is one I can and should consider I have considered all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When doing so, I have again taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what  I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. 
There are up to three things to think about here:
Did Meese  and Associates act in an execution only capacity? and (if it did)
Was it fair and reasonable,  in the circumstances, for Meese  and Associates to act in that 
capacity? and (if it wasnt)
What impact has this had? 
I think,  on balance, the transactions the complaint relates to were  likely  execution  only ones.  I say this 
because:
Ref: DRN133908414It seems Mr R had decided to make an investment in Resina Golf and switch his existing 
pensions to a SIPP to fund it, before being  introduced to Meese and Associates. 
The first contact with Mr R mentions that a specific SIPP had already been selected,  and 
Meese and Associates would be acting in an execution only capacity.  
It is also clear  that Mr S gave advice  to Mr R about the Resina Golf investment, and 
recommended he use pension money to fund the investment. 
A number  of members of the investment group  have  provided witness statements  in which  
they stated that Meese and Associates advisor  did not give any advice on Resina Golf or the 
switch (or transfer) to a SIPP. 
The execution only letter, which  Mr R signed twice, was written in clear  terms, which would  
have been easily understood even by an inexperienced  investor. The letter said I write to 
confirm I have not received any information, advice or recommendation from you or your firm 
in respect of my decision to transfer my pension.and invest in Resina Golf. 
Meese and Associates advisor  also wrote to Mr R after the first application for the SIPP had 
been made and said You are aware that this transaction is an execution only transaction, 
meaning that you have not asked for advice or received any information or advice from me or 
my firm in respect  the suitability of this transaction. This letter, again, was written in clear 
terms, which would have been easily understood even by an inexperienced  investor. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr R expressed any concern about  accepting these 
statements, or queried them. So I think its fair to say, at the time, Mr R accepted this as a fair 
reflection of the role Meese  and Associates had taken.  
The investment could not be made in the first SIPP as Meese and Associates would not 
provide confirmation that advice had been given. If Meese  and Associates had given advice, it 
would likely have  agreed to confirm this was the case,  to allow the investment to proceed.   
The second SIPP operator says it has no record of any contact with Meese  and Associates 
before it received applications from members of the investment group. It has also told us it 
wasnt asked if it would accept Resina Golf before Mr R applied for a SIPP with it. When  the 
SIPP operator was asked if it would accept Resina Golf, it explained it needed an off panel 
investment instruction  and for the advisor  declarations to be signed.  It appears that prompted 
the query from Meese and Associates to which  the SIPP operator replied  by email  (quoted in 
the background section above) on 3 March 2010.  That query  suggests Meese and 
Associates advisor  had no knowledge  of the SIPP operators  processes or requirements until 
he was told about them by the SIPP  operator. 
In response to our request for more information, Meese and Associates  advisor  said his 
recollection is that it was Mr R (along with the rest of the group) who selected the second 
SIPP operator. He has also said he recalls that Mr S mentioned that the provider of the 
Resina Golf investment  knew  the SIPP  operator would accept the investment on an execution  
only basis. I think this recollection  is plausible, in the circumstances. 
I think it likely Mr S found out which  SIPP operator would accept the investment, and told Mr 
R and/or Meese and Associates advisor this, rather than Meese and Associates 
recommending the second  SIPP.  If Meese and Associates had given advice  on which SIPP 
would be suitable,  Id expect it to have taken steps to ascertain whether  the SIPP would  
accept the Resina Golf investment, and on what basis it would be accepted.  Particularly as 
the first SIPP operator had declined  to accept the investment on an execution only basis. In 
the event, it seems these steps were taken by Mr S. 
Ref: DRN133908415So I think the investment and the SIPP operators were both selected by Mr R, or Mr R acting on Mr 
Ss advice, before Meese and Associates was asked to act. It seems Meese  and Associates was 
asked to execute  a specific transaction.  And that is consistent with both the documents  signed by Mr 
R and sent to him, and the witness  statements. 
So I need to consider  whether Meese and Associates  advisor, acting fairly and reasonably, should 
have acted in this capacity.  I do not think it should. I say this because: 
Meese and Associates advisor  says he would  have had regard to guidance provided  to him 
by Tenet.  That guidance said he should never arrange a contract  if there is reason  to believe 
that the investment is not in the clients best interests. It also said that certain high-risk 
products (which I think would include things like the shares in Resina Golf)  must  not be sold 
without the benefit of financial  advice. So he should have been aware that this was a contract 
which Tenet said should  never be arranged on an execution only basis. 
Meese and Associates advisor  likely knew Mr S, an unregulated individual,  had given  advice 
to Mr R. That was contrary to the agreement between Meese and Associates and Mr S. 
Meese and Associates advisor  knew that the declarations he signed for the second SIPP 
operator were  necessary  to allow the investment to go ahead. And he ought to have known 
the purpose of those  declarations was consumer protection.  The operator of the SIPP wanted 
Meese and Associates advisor  to declare  that he had made  sure Mr R knew what he was 
getting into. 
The only acknowledgement of understanding of risk Mr R was asked to give by Meese  and 
Associates advisor  was in the execution only letter, where Mr R declared  I understand that 
this is an illiquid investment and therefore should I decide to disinvest there may be a delay 
before I am able to do this. This falls a long way short of providing a full and balanced 
explanation of the risks. Meese and Associates advisor could therefore take little comfort 
from it. And there is insufficient evidence  to show that Meese and Associates  advisor could 
have otherwise been assured that he should sign the advisor declarations.  Mr R says he did 
not attend  the long group meeting referred to, and Ive seen no evidence otherwise to suggest  
the risks were discussed  with him by Meese and Associates. 
I therefore  need  to consider  what  impact  this has had. Would things have turned  out differently,  if 
Meese and Associates had not acted as it did? I do not think they would. I think  Mr R would have  
gone ahead and made the investment even if Meese and Associates advisor had not acted as he did. 
Mr R says he had made three other investments through Mr S. One of those   the one in the 
Dominican Republic - involved a large  sum of money. My understanding is that this investment was in 
a resort called Punta  Perla. Im aware that Punta Perla  was run by a business called Ocean View 
Properties. The money invested was intended to be a deposit on a property,  and the remainder of the 
amount required to build the property was supposed to be funded by a mortgage. However, nothing  
was ever built. Ocean View  Properties went into liquidation in 2009.  So I think, by the time the Resina  
Golf investment was proposed to Mr R, it was more likely  than not he was aware this investment had 
failed, or had at least encountered significant problems. The completion  date had passed,  and Ocean 
View had gone into liquidation. 
Mr R had also already  made other investments  on the advice on Mr S. By this time,  Mr R likely knew 
that at least  some of those  also werent working  out as they had been  described to him. 
Ref: DRN133908416This suggests two things.  Firstly, that Mr R did have  some awareness of the risks associated  with 
investments of this type  he knew they could go wrong. Secondly,  that he attached a lot of weight  to 
advice given to him by Mr S, which  was being followed by the remainder of the investment group. He 
was willing to accept Mr Ss advice  on a number  of occasions before making the Resina  Golf 
investment. And he was willing to consider making the Resina Golf investment  despite the likely 
knowledge of other investments recommended by Mr S not having turned out as they had initially 
been described to him. It seems, from what Mr R has told us, that he was also prepared  to accept  Mr 
Ss advice to make an investment in Resina Golf without seeing  any documentation  relating to the 
investment  it appears he was happy  to simply  rely on the advice of Mr S. 
Even if Mr R did not think there  was a problem with the Punta Perla investment by the time the Resina 
Golf investment was proposed to him by Mr S (and I think this is unlikely), this could only be as a 
result of reassurances given by Mr S. So this again suggests  that Mr R attached  a lot of weight to 
what Mr S said.  If he was prepared to accept the investment would be ok even through  the completion  
date had long since passed with nothing  being  built and the business  offering the investment had 
gone into liquidation this again shows a strong will to follow a course of action  recommended to him 
by Mr S. 
Mr R also showed a lot of persistence  in making the investment in Resina  Golf. Having  switched his 
existing pensions to the first SIPP operator, and been told the investment could not be made  in that 
SIPP without advice from a regulated advisor being  given, he persevered and switched to a second 
SIPP operator, which would allow  the investment. He also made  additional  investments after making  
the switch, using up much  of the cash left over in the SIPP following the first investment.  
So I think the evidence  shows there was likely to be a degree  of insistence on making the Resina Golf 
investment on Mr Rs part. I think it likely Mr R viewed  Mr S, not Meese and Associates, as his 
advisor. I think at the time of the Resina  Golf investment Mr R likely had a lot of trust in Mr S, and was 
prepared to follow a course of action recommended to him. 
I think  there were two alternatives open to Meese and Associates advisor,  had he not acted  as he 
did. One was to refuse to act at all. The other was to give Mr R advice. And, in the light of what I say 
above, I do not think  that either of those  alternatives would have achieved a different result.  I think, in 
either event,  Mr R would still have gone ahead, transferred and switched his pensions,  and made  the 
investment in Resina Golf.  
Had Meese and Associates advisor given advice, acting fairly and reasonably, and mindful of his 
regulatory obligations, I think that advice should have included clear  warnings about the full extent of 
the risk Mr R would be taking, and clear advice to not to switch away  from his existing pensions.  It 
was clearly unsuitable  for Mr R to put his entire pension  into the unlisted shares of one company. 
And, if giving advice, Meese and Associates should have explained why the switch to the SIPP and 
associated investment were  unsuitable. But I think, in such circumstances, Mr R would still have 
followed the advice of Mr S, and gone ahead and made the investment regardless. 
Risk warnings would  have been unlikely to deter Mr R as hed clearly already formed the view this 
was a good opportunity, based on what hed been told by Mr S and, most likely, other members  of the 
group. It also seems likely Mr R had already  experienced  the downsides of such investments  so he 
was prepared to make  a similar investment on the advice  of Mr S despite the likely failure  of a 
previous investment. And I think it unlikely Mr R would have attached  more  weight to advice from 
Meese and Associates advisor  than he would  to what he was being told by Mr S, in these 
circumstances. 
Having made  Mr R aware of all the risks, it would  have been fair and reasonable for Meese  and 
Associates advisor to sign the advisor  declarations. So I think  the transfer, switch  and investment 
would have gone ahead, had advice been  given by Meese  and Associates. 
Ref: DRN133908417Had Meese and Associates advisor refused to act at all I think it unlikely that would have deterred Mr 
R, in the circumstances. I think his insistence on making  the investment would have been sufficient  for 
him  or, more  likely  Mr S and/or other members of the group  to have explored  alternatives. As 
mentioned, he or Mr S had sought out another SIPP  operator, rather  than giving  up, when  the first 
SIPP operator  refused to make the investment. So I think a refusal by Meese and Associates  advisor  
to act would have  led Mr R, or Mr S and/or other members of the group, to find another  advisor who 
would have given advice (in which case such advice  would likely have been as I have set out above,  
and achieved  the same  outcome). Or to find a SIPP operator which  did not require a regulated  
advisor to be involved (I think this would have been possible at the time). So I am satisfied an 
alternate route to making the switch, and investment, would have been found.  
Overall, this means that although I empathise with the position Mr R finds  himself  in, and do feel that it 
would have been fair and reasonable for Meese and Associates not to have acted as it did, I do not 
think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. I am not persuaded that Meese  and 
Associates could have done anything to change the course of events. I think  it more likely  than not 
that Mr R would have invested in Resina  Golf, no matter  what Meese  and Associates did, and would 
therefore have suffered  his loss regardless. So my provisional decision is that this complaint should 
not be upheld. 
Ref: DRN1339084