K820x#14complaint       
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr S says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds), then trading as TSB, mis-sold  him the PPI. 
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy in 1995, when he applied to Lloyds for a credit card. Its not 
entirely clear  how this was done,  but he thinks it was during a meeting. 
Among other  things, Mr S complains that he was led to believe he had to have the PPI in 
order to get the credit  card and so wasnt given  a fair choice. He also says that he didnt 
otherwise want or need it. So he feels it was mis-sold to him.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. But Mr S disagrees, so the complaint 
has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the PPI policy was mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Not surprisingly after such a long time, the paperwork  from the sale is no longer available.  
And I dont  know what, if anything was discussed about PPI when Mr S applied  for the credit 
card. But Ive seen  an example of the type of application form which  Lloyds says was in use 
at that time and which it believes  Mr S wouldve completed and signed, to apply for his card.  
I think its likely he did that. The form invites an applicant to tick a box if they want  PPI. In my 
view its unlikely Lloyds wouldve added PPI to his account unless that box had been ticked. 
So on balance I think Mr S probably decided to have  PPI, knowing he had a choice  
although I can understand why he may not remember  this now,  so many years later.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S personally. Mr S says it did. And 
in order to be fair to him, because this put extra responsibility on Lloyds, Ive looked at the 
complaint as if it did. That meant Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for him. Based 
on what Ive been  told about his circumstances  at the time, and about the policy  he took out, 
I think it was. In particular, I think he was eligible for the policy and I dont think  he was 
affected by any of the main exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover.   
Lloyds also had to give Mr S good  enough information about  the cost and terms of the PPI. 
From what  Ive read and been told, its possible that the information Mr S got wasnt as clear  
or full as it shouldve been. Im aware, for example, that Mr S says he didnt realise  how long 
hed have to be unable to work for, before he could make a claim under the policy.  But as 
Ive said, I think he chose  to take the PPI out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
And as I explain below, in my view the policy couldve been useful for him. So I dont think 
getting better information about the PPI wouldve put him off taking it out.
Ref: DRN16114662Mr S feels  he didnt  need the PPI, as he says in 1995 he was entitled to at least  six months 
full sick pay from his job, followed by six months half pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of this and couldve  continued for up to 12 months at a time - longer than his full sick pay. 
It would also have  paid out if hed lost his job, in addition to any redundancy payment he 
mightve got. Ive taken  into account  that Mr S had been in his job for many years and 
mayve felt it was quite secure,  but that couldnt  be guaranteed. And although hes 
mentioned having some  small savings, the PPI wouldve left those  intact for the future, or 
available for his other needs at what wouldve likely been a difficult  time. 
So overall, based on what I know about  his situation when he bought it, I think the PPI 
couldve been helpful for Mr S despite his employee  benefits.  And  as he was paying for it 
monthly, he could cancel it at any time without further cost if his situation  changed  or he no 
longer wanted  it.
Mr S has also said he wasnt  told he could take out PPI elsewhere instead,  if he wanted to. 
But Lloyds didnt  have  to tell him that, as long as it made it clear  he didnt have to have the 
PPI which  it was offering   which as Ive said, I think it probably did.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S and his representatives have told us. Hes put 
time and effort  into his complaint and I realise hell be disappointed  at this outcome. But on 
balance, looking at all the information Ive got, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say 
that the PPI was mis-sold  to him.
That means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But Lloyds will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected  to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it shouldve  told Mr S about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right,  Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount  of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offers fair 
in this case.
what Lloyds needs to do
If it hasnt  already done so, Lloyds has to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back  to Mr S any 
extra interest Mr S paid because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr S the difference between 
what Mr S owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest if 
Mr S paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN16114663But it does  have to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds says it has already done this and, if so, it doesnt need  
to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1611466