K821x#15Complaint
Mr D says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) shouldnt  have given  him 
his payday loans. 
Background
Mr Ds borrowing history, based on the information provided to us from Sunny can be found 
below; 
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment  
datenumber of 
instalmentsMax 
repayment
1* £250.00 13/07/2013 outstanding 5 £85.78
2 £300.00 10/01/2015 outstanding  9 £62.50
*loan 1 was a running credit facility,  which is a slightly  different product to a payday  or 
instalment loan. 
It looks like Mr D had some problems repaying  his running credit  facility and his instalment 
loan and it looks like Sunny passed the balances of these accounts to a third party on or 
around 4 January 2016.  
Mr D initially approached Sunny for a running credit facility in July 2013 and he was given a 
facility with a £250  credit limit.
This was a running  credit account where  a consumer could either  request funds up to their 
agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. Each drawdown 
was required to be repaid in five monthly instalments. And had Mr D taken the full amount 
available to him on the first day of having the facility his largest  monthly repayment wouldve 
been £85.78. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ds complaint. He thought  the checks Sunny carried  
out before  granting this facility were  proportionate,  so he didnt think  an error had been made 
by providing Mr D with the facility.   
However, our adjudicator  thought Sunny should  have  stopped  allowing Mr D to take further 
drawdowns by 16 September 2014, because  the account had run for longer than the credit  
agreement said it should. His credit limit was also increased from £250  to £300 and Mr D 
wasnt using the facility as Sunny had intended.  And so Sunny shouldnt have approved any 
further drawdown downs after this date.  
The adjudicator also thought, given  how long Mr D had been in debt to Sunny that it 
shouldnt have granted loan 2. 
Mr D appears  to have agreed  with the adjudicators recommendation.
Sunny has told us that it is in in the process  of buying the loans back from the third party. But 
it didnt provide any comments around the outcome we had reached,  so I dont know  what  it 
thinks about what our adjudicator proposed.
Ref: DRN15612042Sunny then made an offer to refund interest fees and charges  from loan 2 and then write off 
the remaining  balance.  This offer was put to Mr D but he didnt accept it. As no agreement 
was reached,  the case has now been  passed  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time Mr D was given his Sunny facility
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Sunny gave Mr D this facility when 
it was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT). The OFT had issued guidance on this 
type of lending and what it says should  be expected from lenders when granting these types 
of loans. 
At the time the guidance says that Sunny  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer would be able to repay  what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner without 
it adversely impacting on their financial situation.  Put simply, Sunny had to gather enough 
information so that it could  make  an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
But to be clear, Mr D wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay  all of what he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a period of 
five months. So overall, I think that this means  the checks Sunny carried  out had to provide  
enough information for it to be able to understand whether  Mr D would likely be able to 
service and then repay this facility within a reasonable  period  of time.
In addition to this, Section 2.2 of the General Principles of Fair Business Practice section of 
the OFT guidance  says:  creditors should  monitor the borrowers  repayment  record  during 
the course of the credit agreement, offering assistance where borrowers  appear to be 
experiencing financial difficulty. So even after the facility was approved, Sunny had an 
obligation to monitor  how Mr D may use the facility  and then step in if there  were  signs of 
financial difficulty. 
From April 2014 Sunny was regulated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) and the 
relevant code from The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  6.7.2 says;
a firm must monitor a customers  repayment  record and take action where  there are signs of 
actual or possible  repayment  difficulties.  So even after regulation was passed from the OFT 
to the FCA, Sunnys obligation to monitor Mr Ds account remained the same.  
As Ive said,  Mr D was granted a running credit facility with initially  a £250 limit. According to 
the credit  agreement, had he drawn down  the full amount on the first day of having the 
facility, his largest contractual repayment he would need to make  would  be £85.78.
Ref: DRN15612043Before granting the facility  Sunny  asked  Mr D about his monthly income, which  he confirmed 
was £1,905, and it also completed  a credit check. Having considered all the information  
Sunny gathered about Mr Ds circumstances, it could see that Mr D would likely be able to 
afford the repayments  he was committed to making. I also think,  given this was the start of 
the lending relationship, it was not unreasonable for Sunny to have relied on the information 
Mr D provided.  In addition, at this point  in the lending relationship,  I dont think  proportionate 
checks wouldve extended  to Sunny  asking  Mr D to evidence what  he was declaring  about 
his income. Therefore, I dont think Sunny was wrong to have initially  approved the facility. 
So although  I dont  think it was wrong of Sunny to have initially approved the facility,  that 
doesnt mean that Sunny hasnt done anything wrong. Thinking about the regulations that 
Ive mentioned above, Sunny also needed  to monitor  how Mr D used the facility.  So Ive also 
considered how Mr D used the facility, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which  
Sunny should  reasonably have seen  that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. 
Our adjudicator thought that Sunny shouldnt have allowed the transfer made on 
16 September 2014. By this point,  our adjudicator thought that Sunny would have seen that 
Mr D was reliant on this product and at the same time his credit limit also appears to have 
been increased by £50. 
I can see at the start Mr D initially requested three drawdowns in two days  totalling  £200.  It is 
reasonable to assume at this point  that his monthly  repayment wouldve been roughly in line 
with what Sunny was expecting   however, Mr D actually made  five separate repayments  on 
one day totalling  £115.46. Then around  3 weeks  later Mr D took two further drawdowns on 
the same  day of £50. 
A month later Mr D made further  payments of £53.93 before taking the maximum drawdown 
he could in order to take him back up to his credit  limit. This pattern broadly continued up to 
November 2013  - Mr D making  multiple repayments  and then drawing back up to his credit 
limit. 
Then in November 2013 Mr D took what would turn out to be his final drawdown for several 
months  until his drawdown in September 2014.  Mr D instead repaid his outstanding 
balance over a nine-months, significantly longer than the credit  agreement that Sunny has 
provide expected. Although there was no end date,  Sunny expected  the repayments to have 
been made over five months, not nine which is what happened here. 
So by the time Mr D return for another drawdown in September  2014, he had already had 
the facility for over 14 months and had spent the last nine months repaying his balance. 
Given the obligation on Sunny at the time,  I think it ought to have had real concerns about 
Mr Ds ability  to manage the account  in the way that Sunny had expected. So as a 
responsible lender it ought to have  realised that Mr D wouldnt be in a position to suitable  
manage any repayments moving  forward because he wasnt using the facility  as intended by 
Sunny.  So at this point  in time Sunny shouldve stopped Mr D from taking  further 
drawdowns. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that any new, 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN15612044Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  that this point was reached by the 
time loan 2 was granted. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr D was not managing  to repay  his 
borrowing sustainably. Mr D had taken out 14 drawdowns on his running credit  
account in 18 months  and had been indebted  to Sunny for the entire time of the 
running credit facility. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr 
D was having  to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Ds indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ds credit limit had increased on his running credit account  so by the time of 
taking loan 2, Sunny ought to have  known that Mr D was not likely borrowing to meet  
a temporary shortfall in their income, but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Mr D wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  2 was 
taken 18 months after the running  account facility was initially approved and this was 
running at the same  time. Mr D had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Sunny over an extended  period.
I think that Mr D lost out because Sunny continued to provide further  borrowing because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which Mr D borrowed was likely  to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about all lending that was taken  out after 15 September 
2014 (the day before  the drawdown on the running credit facility) and Sunny should  put 
things right as set out below. 
putting things right  what I think  Sunny needs  to do
Based on the statement of account provided to us from Sunny it looks like the outstanding  
balance on the running credit  facility and the instalment loan were  sold to a third party. So if 
Sunny wishes to buy back these debts then it can, and then proceed to carry out the redress  
that Ive outlined below. However, if Sunny doesnt  wish to buy the debts back  then it needs  
to liaise  with the third party in order to achieve  the same outcome.  
I would also add that the statement of account  we have been provided with only goes up to 
January 2016  so Sunny may need to take into account any repayments Mr D may have 
made to the third party. 
for the running  account facility, Sunny should remove  all unpaid interest fees and 
charges applied to any principal drawdowns  after 16 September 2014. It should  then 
rework the balance  as if all payments made by Mr D from this date went  towards the 
principal sum he had drawn down.  
If and when Mr D had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment  
should be refunded to Mr D. To this overpayment  8% simple a year interest  should  
be added  from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
Ref: DRN15612045for loan 2 Sunny should cap Mr Ds liability at the principal  amount  borrowed. It 
should then apply all repayments made by Mr D as if they had gone towards the 
principal sum due. 
If and when Mr D had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment  
should be refunded to Mr D. To this overpayment  8% simple a year interest  should  
be added  from the date of the overpayment cam due to the date of settlement*;
Sunny  can use any refund due for either  the running account  facility or loan 2 to 
offset any principal balance that may remain. 
remove any negative information  from Mr Ds credit file about the running credit  
facility recorded  after 15 September  2014;
the time Mr D spent in debt means  any information recorded about  loan 2 is adverse. 
So all entries about loan2 should be removed from Mr Ds credit  file once this loan 
has been repaid.  Until then Sunny should remove any adverse credit  file information.
After carrying out the above if an outstanding  balance remains on either  the running account  
facility or loan 2 then Mr D and Sunny  should  try and come  to a mutually agreeable 
repayment plan in order to repay what is owed. But I would remind  Sunny  of its obligation to 
treat Mr D fairly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Ds complaint.  
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr D as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1561204