K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc (RBS) have passed his debt to their 
recoveries department. Mr M thinks that RBS should have told him that this would  happen 
after his third payment  arrangement was broken. 
background
Mr M switched his RBS current account to a different bank. But he still had an outstanding 
debt with RBS. RBS have explained  they are not able to receive  electronic  credits from 
another bank  to reduce  this debt, so he needs to contact them on the same  day each month 
to make payments.  Mr Ms not able to visit a branch in person, so calls RBS to make  his 
payments. 
There are occasions when hes kept on hold for long periods of time and hangs  up without 
making the payment. Mr M has told us that these wait times  are the reason for his 
arrangements being  broken. 
Hes also told us that he didnt always receive letters or texts from RBS as a reminder to 
make his payments.  He says the first he knew of his debt being passed to recoveries was 
following the third missed payment. Mr M thinks its unfair that he was not explicitly told that 
his debt would be passed to recoveries  after three  broken payment arrangements. 
To put things right, he wants  the opportunity to set up another  payment arrangement,  without 
having the account defaulted, or having  to repay the entire balance.
RBS have said that its not their policy to explicitly advise customers  that their debt will be 
passed to recoveries following three  broken arrangements. Theyve also said that, whilst  
theyre understanding of the time Mr M has spent on hold, they cant  control how many  
customers are calling through at any given time. Whilst they dont think theyve done 
anything wrong, theyve offered to refund £100 of charges as a gesture of goodwill to Mr M. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened, but didnt think  RBS had done 
anything wrong. As Mr M disagrees, his complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M doesnt think he was told what would happen if his payment arrangements were 
broken. I can see that three payment arrangements were  set up, and all three arrangements  
were broken  due to missed payments. Once the third arrangement  is broken,  RBS'  internal 
policy states that the customer is required  to clear the debt in full or the account  will default.  
Ive also looked  at correspondence sent to Mr M from RBS regarding this debt and I can see 
that formal demand  letters  were  issued on 6 March 2018, 12 May 2017  and 1 August 2017 - 
and a default notice was issued on 27 January  2017. Ive also listened to the call between  
Mr M and RBS on 21 August 2017 where the customer representative advises Mr M of the 
likely actions if payment is not received. Im satisfied that all these  letters and this call inform  
Mr M that the outstanding balance needs  to be paid in full, and that failure to do so may 
result in them instructing  debt collection  agents  to recover  the monies owed. 
Ref: DRN18548932Based on these letters and this call, I think RBS took the necessary steps to inform  Mr M 
that full payment is required unless alternative  arrangements are made for repayment by a 
specific date.  
Ive also considered Mr Ms comments regarding his belief that his account  would  be frozen 
whilst his complaint was investigated by our service. Having listened to the call between  
Mr M and RBS where this is discussed, I dont agree that RBS told Mr M that this would 
happen. Rather, they said that Mr Ms account would continue to progress through the 
default process and that, once our service  had made a decision, the bank would take any 
necessary action. 
So I cant see that RBS have done anything  wrong in passing  Mr Ms debt to their recoveries  
department. That said, I do have sympathy for the lack of ease Mr M has encountered  in 
trying to make payments on the phone with such long hold times.  However,  I consider RBSs  
offer of £100 gesture  of goodwill to be a fair way of recognising  this inconvenience.
my final decision
Im aware that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc has made an offer to pay £100.  I conclude 
that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is that 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc should pay Mr M £100, if it hasnt done  so already.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Rebecca Kemp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1854893