K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the service AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  provided  when he needed 
an injection.
background
Mr W worked abroad and wanted  an appointment with his consultant  during the week  he 
was travelling back to the UK. The appointment was for a pain relieving injection.  But Mr W 
couldnt get through to his consultant  using  the number his treating hospital had provided, so 
called AXA.
AXA couldnt  get through to Mr Ws consultant either  so agreed  to keep calling and update  
Mr W. They didnt  update  Mr W though, and when Mr W called back  a week  later AXA had 
no record of his call. AXA apologised  and arranged for a senior colleague to look into whatd 
happened, but in the meantime agreed  to call the consultant again.  
AXA went  on to learn that Mr Ws consultant  was no longer seeing  private patients and sent 
Mr W an email to advise.  Mr W didnt see their email  though,  because  he hadnt known his 
members portal password. But Mr W had already found out that his consultant wasnt 
seeing private patients through  his own connections,  and had obtained the details of another  
consultant too.  
When AXA addressed  not calling Mr W back,  they acknowledged their service had fallen 
short and apologised. They also said feedback  had been given to the individual  concerned 
and confirmed training needs would be addressed. And they also offered to arrange an 
appointment from Mr W via their fast track service. But Mr W said he was already arranging 
something himself.
Mr W went on to contact AXA again  at a later date and said he was having difficulties again, 
this time getting his hospital to confirm  his appointment. Mr W asked AXA to confirm his 
appointment, but AXA explained that wasnt something they could help with (they could 
authorise treatment but arranging  it was something only Mr W could do). AXA said they were 
sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr W was experiencing, offered their fast track  service again, 
and noted the problems  Mr W was having.
When Mr W complained,  AXA apologised for not updating him after his first call and 
reiterated feedback had been given to the individual concerned. AXA also said theyd logged 
Mr Ws feedback regarding the hospital  difficulties.  But said hed need to complain to the 
hospital directly if he remained unhappy with that facility. 
Unhappy with what had happened,  Mr W brought his complaint here. He said AXA had 
caused him to be in unnecessary pain and their delays meant hed been incorrectly  charged 
an excess. 
Our investigator thought AXA had applied the excess correctly.  But she didnt  think AXA had 
fully considered the impact of their failure  to update Mr W. She said Mr W had been out of 
the country at the time and AXAs actions had left him with uncertainty  about  his 
appointment for about a week.  Because  of that she recommended AXA paid £100  in 
compensation. But while Mr W agreed  with that amount, AXA didnt.
Ref: DRN10217412AXA said theyd accepted and rightly apologised for not contacting  Mr W following his first 
phone call. But they said Mr W had known shortly afterwards that his consultant wasnt  
seeing private patients anymore and theyd offered to find him another  one, twice.  AXA also 
said theyd have been able to secure  Mr W an appointment  during the week  hed wanted  
had he taken up their offer. And so, as no agreement was reached  about the compensation, 
the matter was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think this complaint should be 
upheld. I asked everyone to send me any further comments  before I reached a final 
decision. And in summary said:
AXA were responsible for authorising  Mr Ws treatment subject to the terms and 
conditions of his policy. But they were not responsible for arranging that treatment or 
for the problems Mr W had experienced when trying to do that. 
AXA had apologised for not calling  Mr W back. A senior member of staff had also 
apologised to him, confirmed feedback had been provided, advised  training needs 
would be addressed, and had offered to arrange  an appointment via a fast track 
service too. 
It would  be unfair  of me to hold AXA responsible for the frustrations Mr W had 
already experienced in trying to contact his consultant. And I wasnt  persuaded 
AXAs failure to update Mr W had caused  him unnecessary  pain, because  Mr W was 
only available during a specific window regardless of how far in advance  his 
appointment was arranged.  I thought  AXAs response to failing to call Mr W back  had 
been proportionate and fair.
AXA had followed up on the actions theyd agreed with Mr W after his second call. 
Mr W may not have received their update, but that was because he hadnt known his 
password for the portal  it was sent to. AXA had told Mr W hed need  to set a 
password to receive their update though.  So it wasnt fair of me to hold AXA 
responsible for that, and I wasnt persuaded that had caused  Mr W unnecessary 
pain. 
AXA didnt know Mr Ws consultant  was no longer seeing private patients and would 
have only been able to act on that information once itd been provided  to them.  AXA 
had updated Mr W about his consultant once they were made aware though.  And 
theyd offered to arrange another appointment via a fast track service.  
Mr W had continued to have  problems arranging an appointment with another  facility 
and I understood  his frustrations about  that. But AXA had explained they werent  able 
to influence the hospital or help Mr W in confirming  his appointment there.  So it 
wouldnt be fair of me to hold AXA responsible for matters outside  of their control or 
influence.
I had no reason to doubt how difficult and frustrating Mr Ws experience was, but I 
had to decide whether AXA should  pay compensation to recognise  the impact  their 
failure had on him. Mr Ws overall  frustrations  may have  been warranted,  but I was 
solely looking at the actions of AXA. And while I accepted AXAs service had fallen 
short, I was satisfied  their response  to that failure was proportionate and was minded 
to find they didnt need to do anything more. 
Mr W responded to my provisional  decision and, in summary, said he found it incredulous 
that AXA didnt  have means to update  their database on a daily basis.  Mr W said it wasnt  
his fault that AXA didnt  know who was working  for them, and AXA should have been in 
control of those they employed. Mr W said nothing he could  have done  would have  altered  
the fact that AXA hadnt  known his consultant had moved on and their lack of response to 
Ref: DRN10217413his first phone call had caused unnecessary stress. Mr W also said hed told AXA he had 
limited access  to emails and the internet.  
AXA responded to my provisional decision and, in summary, reiterated  their original position. 
AXA also said that it would have been  the responsibility of a specialist to update them with 
any changes to their status  (such  as no longer seeing private patients), and said they 
provided specialists  with information about how to do that. AXA also that said theyd told 
Mr W hed need to set up a password to receive their emails   something which Mr W had 
said ok to. And they couldnt be held responsible the actions of the specialists or consultants  
that Mr W had contacted. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision for the same reasons.
Mr W did face difficulties in arranging  his appointment. And although I wont repeat 
everything I set out in my provisional  decision, or summarised above, I think  it is important to 
reiterate that the matters  Im considering in this complaint concern the actions of AXA. Not 
the actions of Mr Ws consultants. Nor the hospitals he had difficulties with. 
Mr Ws consultants werent  employed by AXA, and it would have  been  the responsibility  of 
those consultants to inform  AXA of any changes to the work they were doing   such  as no 
longer seeing  private patients.  AXA have told this service that they advise specialists about 
how they can do that. And as I set out in my provisional decision, as soon as AXA became 
aware of the changes  with Mr Ws consultant, they let Mr W know.
It is of course disappointing  that AXA werent  made aware of Mr Ws consultant no longer 
seeing private patients. But for the reasons  given  above thats not something  I can hold AXA 
liable for. 
I acknowledge the points Mr Ws made about the impact AXAs  failure to call him back  had. 
But as I set out, AXA apologised for not doing  that. They also confirmed that feedback had 
been provided to the individual concerned, and said training needs would be addressed.  
They also offered Mr W the option  of having an appointment arranged  through  their fast 
track service too. And following that went on to do all of the actions theyd agreed with Mr W. 
So I remain  satisfied that AXAs  response  to their initial failure  was both proportionate and 
fair. 
Mr W had said that he told AXA he had limited  access to emails and the internet. But the 
available evidence doesnt reflect that. Having listed to the calls Mr W had with his insurer, 
AXA explained that hed need to set up a password to receive their emails,  and Mr W said 
that was ok. 
AXA have explained  that theyre  required to send their emails  securely,  which I dont find to 
be unreasonable. And for the reasons already  set out above and in my provisional decision  it 
wouldnt be fair of me to hold AXA responsible for Mr W not knowing his password. 
I do appreciate that Mr Ws unhappy about what happened and accept he faced difficulties in 
arranging his appointment. But having  looked solely at the actions of AXA,  Im not 
persuaded theyve  acted  unreasonably in the circumstances of this case.  
Ref: DRN10217414my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1021741