K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services Limited,  trading as Argos, took too 
long in registering a default on his credit  file. They originally registered it in 2015 when he 
had arrears on his credit  card from 2013. They then removed the default and registered  the 
repayment plan that they had entered into with him. 
Mr J wants a default to be registered on his account backdated to 2013. 
background 
Mr J got an Argos credit card in 2008.  
In 2012, he fell into financial difficulties and eventually entered  into a debt management plan 
in around January or February 2013. 
After entering into various repayment plans with Argos, they eventually sent him a default 
notice in February 2015. This was followed by them  registering a default on Mr Js credit file 
in 2015. 
In 2017, Mr J found that his account showed the default and asked Argos  to backdate  it to 
2013. Argos looked into his request and found that they shouldnt have registered a default 
at all. They removed  the default and gave Mr J £100 compensation for their error.  
Mr J says that he was then in a worse position than had Argos  left the default on his credit  
file. He says that his credit file showed that he had arrears on his Argos account. Because of 
the rate of his repayments,  it was unlikely that Mr J would ever clear his debt. He says that 
this meant  that his credit file would always show this debt whereas, had he had a default 
registered in 2013 when  he had been  in financial difficulties for some time, it would have 
been cleared from his credit file in six years. 
Mr J came to us. Our investigator found  that Argos shouldve left the default on the account 
and backdated  it to December 2013. He thought that the £100 compensation that Argos had 
paid was fair for the inconvenience of recording inaccurate information.  
Argos didnt agree with this so the complaint has now come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Argos wont be happy  with my decision. I think  that the default should be 
registered on Mr Js credit file and backdated to December 2013. I will explain why. 
The debt repayment  plan that Mr J entered into effectively means  that he unlikely to repay 
his debt in full. This means that it will remain on his credit file, perhaps, for the rest of his life. 
I dont think that this is fair. 
In particular, I think its unfair that he would then be in a worse position than someone who 
hadnt even tried to repay their debt. For this person, a default wouldve been entered  which  
wouldve been taken  off their credit  file in six years. 
Ref: DRN10341032I think that Mr J has tried to repay  his debt so he shouldnt be left in a worse position  that 
someone who hasnt.  So, I think that a default should be registered on Mr Js credit  file. 
So, the next step is to say when the default  shouldve been registered. Mr J contacted Argos 
in December 2013 asking for his repayments  to be reduced. At this point, he hadnt 
managed to pay much off his debt (only around £100). This was almost a year on from 
entering into the debt repayment plan. So, at this point, I think Argos  shouldve realised that 
Mr Js situation wasnt going  to improve. And it is at this point that they shouldve  registered 
a default. 
Argos has offered Mr J £100 in compensation for having registered a default.  As inaccurate 
information was recorded (the default  shouldve been registered  in December 2013), I think  
that this is fair compensation  for the distress and inconvenience that Mr Js has suffered. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Home  Retail Group Card  Services Limited, trading as 
Argos, to:
1.register a default on Mr Js credit  file and backdate it to December 2013;
2.pay Mr J £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  suffered if they 
havent already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1034103