K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains about the charges HVF Limited,  trading as Lex Autolease (Lex), have 
asked her to pay to refurbish a car she had on finance with them at the end of the hire 
period.
background
Mrs K took receipt of a new car in August 2015.  She financed the deal through  a three year 
hire agreement with Lex. At the end of that period  when Mrs K returned the car it was 
inspected by a third party and Lex sent Mrs K an invoice for damage they said she needed  
to pay them  for because the car hadnt been  returned in the correct condition.  They  said 
there was a dent on the door and further damage to the right hand C post.
But Mrs K thought the charges they suggested  were  too expensive  and she disputed  the C 
post damage which she said wasnt there when she returned the car.
Lex explained that the C post damage  was more difficult to identify as it was on the inner 
seal of the door. But they thought both charges were beyond fair wear and tear and they 
didnt think they needed to reduce them.
So Mrs K referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her view. She 
explained that the British  Vehicle  Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) provided  the 
industry guidance on what was fair wear and tear on a returned vehicle. So she considered 
the photographs taken during the inspection  against  that standard.  She agreed  that the C 
post dent was longer than allowed under the guidance and the primer was showing so she 
thought this was chargeable.  But she didnt agree that the damage to the door was beyond  
the fair wear and tear guidance. She said it was less than 10mm  long and no primer was 
visible. So she thought  Lex should waive that charge.
But Lex didnt agree with the adjudicator.  They  said the standard  said dents  were  there  was 
accompanying paint damage were outside  of normal wear and tear. So they asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs K acquired her car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Ref: DRN11189432The terms of that hire agreement explain that the car should be kept in a good  condition (fair 
wear and tear excepted) and also explain that Mrs K will be responsible  for the costs of 
repairs if it isnt.
The industry guidelines that Id expect Lex to use to establish what  was a fair condition  and 
what damage was beyond fair wear and tear are provided by the BVRLA.
The vehicle inspection appears to have been  carried out to that standard and by an 
independent third party. 
Photographs have been supplied of the damage that was identified  and rulers  have been  
added so that the extent of the damage  can be clearly assessed. Lex have  circled  the areas  
of damage that theyve  claimed for. 
Ive reviewed each  of the chargeable items  and agree  with the adjudicator as follows:
door near side front
I reviewed the damage identified by Lex but I dont  think the primer is showing and I think the 
damage is within the guidance  allowance.  So I dont think this is reasonably chargeable. 
The guidance says that dents less than 15mm are not chargeable unless the primer is visible  
and scratches up to 25mm are not chargeable unless the primer  is visible.
So I think its reasonable to ask Lex to waive this charge. And regardless,  Mrs K returned 
her car with 22,623 miles on the clock. The mileage limit was 30,000  miles so I think its 
most likely Lex got more from the car at auction  than was expected  and in those 
circumstances I think it would be fair to be a little more lenient about  any damage that wasnt 
clearly evidenced.
right hand  C post
Theres a scratch of about 15mm thats clearly through to the primer. The standard says that 
if the primer is showing on a scratch or dent the damage is outside of fair wear and tear and 
is chargeable. So I agree with Lex here.
cost
Mrs K also complains that the refurbishment charge levied by Lex is too expensive.  They  
charged £132 to repair  the C post and I think thats in line with other charges Ive seen in 
similar circumstances from other  businesses. So Im not persuaded its excessive.
Ref: DRN11189433my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell HVF Limited to waive 
the charge theyve made to refurbish  the door. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1118943