K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&T) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about a short-term loan Mr S obtained from H&T in August 2017. The loan 
was for £400, repayable in six monthly  instalments of £101.24.
An adjudicator considered  Mr S complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. Mr S didnt 
agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
H&T has shown us it obtained some income  and expenditure  information  as part of the loan 
application process.  This shows that Mr S said he had a net monthly  income of £1,720  and 
total monthly expenditure of £779  leaving a disposable income  of £941 per month. Mr S 
outgoings included  £200 for housekeeping,  £55 for travel but £0 for other credit 
commitments.
I think H&T wouldve known Mr S monthly credit commitments were not £0. I can see from 
its credit  check  and associated notes it was aware he was in arrears  of £328 to at least one 
other short-term lender.  Its not clear  to me what  H&T did to take this into account. The 
evidence it has provided suggests it didnt take these arrears into account as the only 
disposable income figure it has provided is a simple  deduction of Mr S declared income 
from his declared expenditure.
Having said this, I bear in mind that the loan it provided to Mr S was over a six-month  term 
with instalments of £101 per month. So even if H&T had taken into account that Mr S had 
some arrears with other lenders, I dont  think the loan it provided wouldve seemed 
unaffordable for Mr S. 
I say this because  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate, in all the circumstances of the 
loan it agreed for Mr S, for H&T to carry out an in-depth review of Mr S financial situation. 
Instead, I think it wouldve  been enough for H&T to ask Mr S about any repayment  
arrangements he had for his arrears. And I think its unlikely a discussion of this nature 
wouldve suggested the H&T loan was unaffordable. So overall,  I dont think H&T was wrong 
to have lent to Mr S. 
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Ref: DRN17288532my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Harvey  & Thompson Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1728853