K820x#14complaint
Mr C, on behalf of Company E, complains about MoneyNetInt  Ltd (MNI),  in relation to a 
payment made to a third party, using MNIs  payment systems. Company E wants MNI to 
reimbursed the payment.  
background
Company E is based overseas. 
Company E entered into a transaction with a third party, Company B, to provide services.   
On the advice of Company B, Company E agreed to pay €25,000 to Company B, using MNI 
as the payment processor. Company B was a customer  of MNI and had agreed to its terms 
and conditions. Company E had not. 
In mid 2016,  Company E made  the payment to MNI, who relayed the funds on to Company 
B immediately. 
It later transpired that Company B was not able to trade in the country  where Company E is 
based, and the services  could not be performed. 
Company E has made efforts to recover the funds from Company E, but has been 
unsuccessful in contacting them, or recovering the funds. 
Company E complained to MNI in 2018.  It said that MNI had not taken sufficient care to 
ensure that Company E was authorised to trade in Company Es home  country. It also said 
that MNI had not undertaken sufficient due diligence of its client.  
MNI sent Company  E its final response  letter in August 2018. It rejected Company Es 
request to reimburse  the funds, and explained  that as a payment processor it had 
undertaken all necessary  checks  towards  its customer.  
Company E was not satisfied with that response  and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that MNI had not treated Company E unfairly  and that MNI was not responsible for the 
actions of its customer, Company B. 
Company E did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. Within  its 
response it said that the payment had been  marked as an investment, which  should  have 
triggered concern  from MNI as MNI is not authorised for investments, and that MNI was not 
authorised in the recipient  country  to passport money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, can I make clear  that I understand Company Es concerns about the conduct of 
Company B, and that it is now unable to contact Company B. 
Ref: DRN12544852I do, however,  have  to make clear  the limits of this service as a consumer body. 
We are not the regulator of financial businesses. That is the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Concerns  about whether the processes operated by any financial business should  
be referred to the FCA. 
Our role is to look at consumer concerns and whether a financial business has treated its 
customers fairly. When we consider that it has not, we can direct that the business  makes 
amends to the consumer. 
In this instance, Company B was the consumer of the majority  of MNIs services. MNIs 
relationship with Company E was limited to facilitating the transfer of the funds to Company  
B efficiently.  
There is no suggestion that MNI did not carry out the transaction, as instructed, and the 
funds were released to Company B immediately. 
I therefore agree with the adjudicators view that, within  the confines of the relationship  
between Company E and the payment processor, MNI has not done  anything wrong. 
I note that Company E thinks  that MNI should have stopped the payment  because of the title 
given to the payment, and because the recipient was based overseas. I do not agree. There 
is no suggestion that by processing  the payment MNI was involved in regulated activity 
relating to investments, and it has confirmed it undertook  relevant due diligence towards  its 
customer, Company  B. 
Whilst I sympathise with Company Es position, for these reasons I am not able to uphold  the 
complaint. 
I
my final decision
As set out above, I do not uphold the complaint and do not ask MoneyNetInt Ltd to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C on behalf  of 
Company E, to accept or reject my decision before 29 August  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1254485