K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Cash On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Peachy says that it gave two loans to Mr H, in October and December 2017. The first loan 
was due to be repaid  in four monthly instalments, the second loan was due to be repaid over 
the following  twelve months. But in July 2018  Mr H topped up his second loan by taking 
some additional  borrowing. I think it is reasonable to treat that top up as a separate  loan 
since it increased Mr Hs monthly repayments  significantly. Mr H repaid his first loan a little 
earlier than planned,  but he hasnt fully repaid  his outstanding balances  from the last two 
loans. A summary  of Mr Hs borrowing  from Peachy is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 13/10/2017 06/12/2017 £ 100
2 09/12/2017 - £ 150
3 20/07/2018 - £ 350
When Mr H first complained to Peachy it didnt agree that it had been wrong to give him any 
of the loans. But, as a gesture of goodwill,  it offered  to rebate some  of the interest  hed paid 
and reduce his outstanding balance. Mr H didnt accept that offer and brought his complaint 
to this Service.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Peachy had 
been wrong to give the first loan to Mr H. But he didnt think  the remaining  loans  should  have 
been agreed. So he asked Peachy to pay Mr H some  compensation.
Peachy didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr H accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN13307622But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Peachy did some checks before it lent to Mr H. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked  his credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Peachy says 
that there  was nothing  of concern in the results  it received from these checks.
At this stage it would  be worth noting  that, generally,  the information a consumer might see, 
when they request a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. 
A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might  be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date.  So, this may explain any differences  
between the information provided  by Peachys credit check  to it and the information seen by 
Mr H in his credit report.
Mr H agreed to repay his first loan over a period  of four months.  His loan was relatively  small 
and the extended repayment  period  meant that his repayments appeared to be easily  
affordable based  on what  hed said about  his disposable income.  So given these repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time,  and his borrowing 
history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Peachy to ask him for 
Ref: DRN13307623the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first loan.
Mr H repaid his first loan after less than two months.  And just three  days later he asked to 
borrow again. The amount he asked to borrow had increased, but he now asked  to repay 
that loan over a period of twelve  months. So although the amounts that Mr H needed to 
repay each  time were smaller  than if hed taken a loan over a shorter duration  he was, of 
course, committing to making  those  repayments  over a far longer period.
I think given Mr Hs behaviour in repaying a loan early, and then asking to borrow  a larger  
amount very shortly afterwards, Peachy should have  been concerned about how sustainable 
it would  be for Mr H to make these repayments over such an extended period. So I think 
Peachy should  have  taken steps at that time to look in depth  at Mr Hs financial situation. 
I dont think it was reasonable  for Peachy to base  its lending  decision on this loan on the 
information that Mr H was providing.
Had Peachy done  better checks it would have seen  that Mr Hs finances were  under 
significant pressure.  He was borrowing, and had been for an extended  period  of time, from a 
number of other short term lenders. It would have been clear to Peachy that Mr H was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loans was leaving in his 
finances and that his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. I can also see that Mr H 
was making an increasing number  of what appear to be online gambling transactions around  
that time.
As I said earlier,  Mr H took some additional  borrowing a few months later. And that meant 
his monthly repayments  increased substantially. I havent seen anything  that would make me 
think Mr Hs financial  pressures had eased by that time  in fact it seems to me that they 
were getting  worse, with a number of his other credit accounts  entering delinquency around 
that time.  I think that this is something  that Peachy would have seen if it had done what 
I consider to be proportionate checks.
I think that proportionate checks before agreeing loans 2 and 3 would have shown Peachy 
that Mr H was facing significant problems managing his money.  It would therefore  have been  
clear that it would be unlikely that Mr H would be able to repay these loans in a sustainable  
manner. And therefore Peachy shouldnt have  given these loans to him. Peachy  needs to 
pay Mr H some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Peachy should  have agreed to lend to Mr H after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 19 December  2017 (loan  2). So for both of those loans Peachy should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr H on the loans.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN13307624If Mr H still owes  Peachy  any of the principal  sums  he borrowed on his last two loans, 
Peachy may deduct this from the compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear, those 
outstanding balances should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking 
account of any repayments Mr H has made on the loans as though  they were applied  
against the principal sums borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold most of Mr Hs complaint and direct Cash On Go Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1330762