K820x#14Complaint
Mr A and Mrs A say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
The policy,  which  started in 1994, helped protect Mr A and Mrs As mortgage payments if 
Mr A couldnt work due to disability or became unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr A and Mrs A disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr A and Mrs As case.
As our adjudicator explained, we dont  have all of the information  from the time of the sale in 
this case. For example,  we dont have a copy of the policy terms from 1994. None of this is 
surprising given the sale took place  so long ago. That said, Ive still reached  a conclusion 
taking into account  the available evidence,  and knowledge and experience  of these types  of 
sales.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
As theres  little paperwork from the time of the sale, I cant  say for sure what Mr A and Mrs A 
were told or that it was made clear  the PPI was optional. Equally, Ive seen no evidence to 
support what theyve said about  HSBC not making this clear  to them. Taking  everything  into 
account, I think its just as likely Mr A and Mrs A were told the PPI was optional  and that they 
agreed for it to be added. I can understand if they dont recall agreeing to the PPI.
As such,  I dont have  enough evidence to uphold the complaint on this basis.
Looking at other aspects  of the sale, its possible HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr A and 
Mrs A. If so, HSBC needed  to take steps to ensure its advice  was right for them. I cant  be 
sure it took those steps, although I think the PPI was right for them  in any case. 
For example, looking  at the policy  terms from the years before and after the sale, I think 
Mr A would have been eligible for the cover. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest the monthly 
premium was unaffordable for them.
The PPI likely included restrictions on the cover, such  as for claims for pre-existing medical 
conditions. But I cant see that Mr A would have been affected by them. 
Mr A and Mrs A say, if Mr A fell ill, hed have received sick pay for up to around  three  
months. But the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that, and for longer at up to 12 
months per claim. It covered unemployment too. 
Ref: DRN12349422Ive thought about the family help Mr A and Mrs A say they could have  relied on. But there 
was no guarantee  their family would have  been  in a position to help when it was needed, 
whereas the PPI benefits were guaranteed.
Given Mr A and Mrs A had arranged a mortgage  an important, long-term,  financial 
commitment that was secured against their home   I think the cover  provided them with 
worthwhile security. 
It was also for HSBC to give Mr A and Mrs A enough information about the PPI so they could 
make an informed choice  about whether it was right for them.  I dont know  exactly  what 
information Mr A and Mrs A got during the sale. But, for the same  reasons I think PPI was 
right for them and was affordable, I dont think better information about  it would have put 
them off buying  it.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A and Mrs A. 
But HSBCs paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A and Mrs A because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr A and Mrs A about that. Because HSBC  didnt tell 
Mr A and Mrs A, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBCs paid back  the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A and Mrs A.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr A and Mrs A any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand its already done  this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1234942