K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about The One Account (TOA) he held with The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc 
 he says it was mis-sold  to him. He says he was unable to re-mortgage to a better  deal and 
unhappy that his interest  rate didnt reduce in line with the Bank of England base rate.
background 
Mr H had The One Account with RBS since September 2003 in his sole name. TOA is a 
secured personal  bank  account with RBS and is different to a normal account  because its a 
current account and mortgage account rolled into one. While the account is branded as 
TOA, the mortgage is provided by RBS. In 2006,  Mr H added  his ex-partner and a second  
property to the account. Around this time, Mr H began renting out his first property.
Mr Hs TOA was secured on two properties, one was the property that he lived in with his ex-
partner and the other his mother lived in. He wanted  to re-mortgage one of the properties  
elsewhere because  he didnt feel that TOA passed  on any interest  rate cuts and that he has 
been stuck on the same  interest rate for many years. He was told by TOA that the full facility 
of the account,  (at that time)  was £315,000.  So this meant that the property he wanted  to re-
mortgage would need to be worth  the same  value as the facility at the time.
Mr H said that this wasnt going to happen so he felt trapped by TOA and he believes they 
didnt do enough  to help him. As he didnt  agree,  he brought the complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator  didnt  think that the 
account was mis-sold  and didnt think that the interest rate charged was unfair. He did 
however think that TOA could have explained to Mr H how the TOA worked better than they 
did. The investigator  said Mr H queried  this on numerous occasions but didnt receive  a clear 
answer from TOA. He upheld the complaint  and asked TOA to pay Mr H £500 for the trouble 
and upset he was caused.
Mr H didnt agree with this. He made  a number  of comments  as to why he disagreed with 
what the investigator had said. In summary,  he still believed that the TOA should have 
reduced their interest rates in line with the Bank of England  base rate. In addition  to this, he 
felt very strongly that he had been  treated unfairly  by TOA when he wanted to remove one of 
his properties  from that account and re-mortgage it.
As he disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman  so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mr H has said and I know  he feels very strongly 
about his complaint. He has made  additional detailed  comments  in support of his views 
which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  I am grateful for these detailed 
submissions. However, I trust that Mr H will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. It is to set 
out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
Ref: DRN14878812mis-sale
Ive firstly  had a look at the mortgage  offer from 2007 when Mr Hs ex-partner was added  to 
TOA. This mortgage offer confirms that TOA (for this particular change), was taking out on a 
non-advised basis. This means that TOA didnt recommend a particular product or 
repayment method  to Mr H and his ex-partner. They also didnt recommend whether 
changing the parties to the mortgage  was right for Mr H and his ex-partner.
TOA were required to provide enough  information to enable  Mr H and his ex-partner to make 
an informed choice. Im satisfied TOA met this requirement and I dont think  any of the 
information they provided to Mr H and his ex-partner was unclear or mis-leading. This means 
it was up to Mr H and his ex-partner  to decide whether TOA was right for them,  based  on 
their own circumstances  at the time. And I can see they did decide to proceed with what was 
offered.
Im also satisfied that Mr H and his ex-partners mortgage offer makes it clear that both 
properties will be used as security for the TOA. And that TOA required a first charge over 
each of these  properties. So Im satisfied  TOA did enough to make  Mr H and his ex-partner  
aware that both properties were security for the TOA, and under the same account number.
Mr H also had concerns that TOA only pursued  him for payments to the mortgage and not 
his ex-partner. The offer explains that as its a joint account, each borrower  remains 
responsible for the joint finances  and both will be fully liable for all of the borrowing on the 
account. It specifically  states that TOA will deal with either party on the basis that whoever 
contacts TOA represents both parties.  So while  I can understand why Hr H was frustrated 
that TOA didnt pursue  his ex-partner, TOA didnt have to.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the mortgage was mis-sold.
the interest rate
Mr H is unhappy that his interest rate didnt  reduce in line with the Bank  of England  base 
rate. Ive looked  at the terms  and conditions of the account and I havent seen anything in 
the terms and conditions which suggests that TOA are contractually obliged  to change their 
SVR when the Bank of England Base  Rate changes. 
Lenders can take changes to a base rate into account when setting their rates   and they 
often do. But they dont  have to apply changes just because the Bank of England base rate 
changes at any given  time. Ive already  explained  that the SVR that Mr H was on wasnt 
tracking the Bank of England base rate  because it didnt need to. This means they werent 
required to change at the same  time or by the same margin. So Im satisfied that TOA have  
applied the interest  rate fairly to the account.
re-mortgaging of one property
Mr H opened the TOA in 2003 in his sole name. In 2006, Mr H added his ex-partner to the 
account which meant that her income  was taken into account along  with Mr Hs. This led to 
the facility on the account increasing by a substantial amount  to £300,000. TOA have said 
that they explained to Mr H at the time that without  his ex-partners income,  he wouldnt have 
met their lending criteria for affordability.  At around this time,  it appears that Mr H began  
renting out his first property (the original property  the TOA was taken out for in 2003).
Ref: DRN14878813In June 2012 Mr H notified TOA that he wanted to consolidate all his debts  into a single 
account and he wanted to know if this was something they could help him with. He wanted to 
increase his one account facility for 12 months.  TOA informed Mr H that he could do this but 
explained that their current  maximum loan to value (LTV)  at that time was 75% - as their 
lending criteria had changed. 
Mr H also enquired about adding a third property to TOA in November 2012. The purpose  of 
this was so that he could  try and reduce the LTV (by releasing  equity  in the third property) 
even though he was extending the overdraft facility.  It doesnt appear  that this happened as 
the application was later declined for affordability reasons. So there  were  only two properties 
held within  his TOA. 
Mr H was looking for a new mortgage  rate with TOA. But TOA explained that because  of the 
type of account  that Mr H had and the benefits  and flexibility attached to it, they didnt offer 
any other rates. TOA did say that Mr H could repay his mortgage and re-mortgage to 
another lender if he wanted  to. I cant see that there were any specific barriers  put in place 
by TOA which would have  prevented  Mr H doing this.
At a later date, Mr H enquired about removing one of the properties from TOA but he wanted 
to do this in his sole name and not joint. From  what I can see, he wouldnt have met TOAs 
lending criteria to enable  him to do this. This is because he would have to pay back his 
entire facility  which he wasnt able to do as he couldnt afford  to do so. I cant hold TOA 
responsible for changes  to things like personal circumstances or market conditions.  And it 
appears Mr Hs personal circumstances had changed which  meant that his request wasnt 
possible. 
 
TOAs mortgage policies   and indeed industry  rules  have changed following the financial 
crisis which meant that any new applications  had to meet  stricter lending  criteria. The most 
that TOA could lend Mr H when he requested these changes was 75% of the value  of his 
property. They were  willing to lend up to 100% of the property value  prior to that. 
From what  I have  seen, TOA made  a commercial decision  to change their lending criteria 
and not the terms  of Mr Hs mortgage  itself. This change  meant  that the loan to value ratios 
had changed for any new applications   which are what  Mr Hs requests were. This is a 
decision that TOA were entitled  to make.  I know  that Mr H thinks  he should have been  made  
aware of this change, but I dont  agree.  Lenders policies can change  over time to take into 
account things  like changes in the regulators rules  and guidelines. And a lender isnt 
required to make borrowers aware of changes like this one.
I can see that Mr H has now managed to re-mortgage both properties out of the TOA and his 
account has now been closed. He was able to do this by carrying  out a reducing  property  
application but had to pay in a significant  amount of money  to meet  the LTV criteria.  One 
property was re-mortgaged  out in 2017 and the other in 2019, when the account was closed. 
Mr H has said that he wasnt offered the reducing  property application until 2016. But I cant  
see that this is something that TOA offered before then.  So it isnt something  I think they 
couldve offered at an earlier date and Im satisfied that they didnt do anything wrong here.
While I appreciate that this meant Mr H couldnt  re-mortgage one property  out of TOA, I cant  
say that TOA did anything wrong  in relation to this. Mr H wanted to make a significant 
change to his mortgage contract which TOA were not able to agree to  and werent  required 
to. 
Ref: DRN14878814Im satisfied TOA applied their lending criteria fairly. However, I can see from the notes that 
Mr H queried on numerous occasions how the account worked when he wanted to make  
changes to it. I think that TOA could have  communicated and explained things in a clearer  
way earlier  on. This couldve possibly taken  away some  of the stress and inconvenience that 
Hr H said he was caused  especially as he was going through  a difficult time during that 
period. Our investigator recommended that TOA should pay Mr H £500 to recognise the 
trouble and upset  caused. And I can see no reason to depart from that.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and require The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc to pay Mr H £500 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.  
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1487881