K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
July 2000. Mrs A says the PPI was mis-sold to her. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited provided  the insurance and has taken responsibility 
for the way the policy was sold. To keep things simple, Ill therefore use the term FICL 
throughout this decision  when discussing actions  taken by all those  involved  in selling the 
policy to Mrs A. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.  And having  done so I dont think  the 
policy was mis-sold. I will explain why.
The PPI was added when Mrs A took out her card in a shop. FICL called its PPI 
policy Account Cover and the credit agreement had a separate section about this. It 
gave a very brief description of the cover and then offered customers the chance to 
apply for the policy by signing a box alongside  text which  said:  Yes,  I would like to 
protect my Account with Account Cover...". I think Mrs A wouldve known the box 
should only be signed if she wanted  the cover. And on Mrs As form, Mrs A put her 
signature in the box. Mrs A says she wouldnt have taken  the cover  if shed been told 
it was optional. But bearing in mind what Ive said above, I think  FICL  likely made  it 
clear that Mrs A didnt  have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs A got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, including  
her employers  sick pay policy, it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would  have been  useful  for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said - including what she has said about her 
recollections of the sale. But over 18 years have passed since Mrs A took her store card 
account and I appreciate  that she may no longer  remember the details of the conversation 
she had. And based on everything Ive seen, I think its more likely that FICL let her know 
that PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. So these  points dont change  my 
decision.
Ref: DRN12271602my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1227160