K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about PPI that Ms B took out alongside a credit  card in 1998.  She applied  
for the card by post. It protected her monthly card repayments if she couldnt work because  
of accident or sickness or was unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.
Ms B mainly says that she didnt realise  when applying for the card that shed signed to say 
she wanted to take out PPI. This was because of the way the form was laid out. She said 
Bank of Scotland shouldve brought it to her attention that shed applied  for PPI during the 
call to activate her card. She said she wouldve insisted PPI was removed, if shed  known 
about it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Ms Bs credit card application.  Shes  signed the box to say she wanted PPI. 
Alongside this box, there was an equally prominent  box she couldve placed her signature  in 
to say she didnt  want PPI. The credit card application, in my view,  made  it clear  that PPI 
was optional and that the customer  had to say whether  they wanted it, or not. 
The later call Ms B had with Bank of Scotland was about activating  her credit card. So, as it 
wasnt about PPI, and Ms B had already made the choice herself to select PPI on the form, I 
cant see that Bank of Scotland  did anything  wrong by not discussing PPI with her during 
that call. So, I cant fairly  uphold  Ms Bs complaint  on this ground.  
Bank of Scotland didnt advise Ms B to take out PPI. So, it didnt have to consider whether 
the policy was suitable for her. But, the information it gave her still had to be clear, fair and 
not misleading, so that she could make an informed  choice about whether she wanted to buy 
the PPI, in her circumstances.
Bank of Scotland said it doesnt  any longer have the policy  document  from the exact date 
when Ms B took out her credit card. But Ive seen a copy of the policy that came into use 
afterwards. So I think its likely that in all main  respects the policy Ms B signed up to 
wouldve had similar terms  to this.
I cant see that the policy was inappropriate for Ms B. I say this because:
she was eligible to take out the policy;
it appeared affordable;
Ref: DRN12649202I cant see that she was affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover, so I 
dont think having better  information  about these things wouldve put her off taking it 
out;
Ms B said she wouldve got benefits through her work and so didnt need the policy. 
The policy wouldve  paid out on top of her work  benefits and for up to 12 months  per 
successful claim,  so for potentially longer than her work  benefits wouldve covered 
her for. I cant see that her other  resources  wouldve clearly  put her off buying the 
cover. I think the policy  couldve  still been  useful to her.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Ms B when she bought the policy.  But from 
what Ive seen, the monthly premiums seem to have been affordable. Ms B paid for the PPI 
each month. She couldve cancelled the policy at any time. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold. But I think Ms B still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if shed been better informed, 
as PPI gave her useful  protection  in her particular situation. I dont think  better  information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1264920