K822xComplaint
Mr S complained about matters pertaining to Tilney Investment  Management Services
Limiteds (Tilneys) handling of the transfer  of his occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) into 
an existing self-invested  personal pension (SIPP).
Background 
In early 2018 Mr S and Tilney discussed  transferring benefits  from his OPS into a SIPP.
These communications included discussions about the cost of this work as well as what  was 
intended to happen on transfer. Mr S wanted to access his 25% tax free sum and invest  the 
remaining funds.
Mr S proposed that Tilney ought  to have been bound  to advise him on the transfer based on 
a cost figure of around £1,000. This figure had been  mentioned in an email  from Tilney 
around the middle of March 2018.  Tilney say this figure had been  contingent  on the pension 
being a money  purchase arrangement and not a final salary, defined benefit  pension 
scheme. And that Mr S was informed  shortly afterwards of the costs difference once they 
discovered this.
In any event Tilney say, it cant be concluded  they would have necessarily advised in favour 
of transfer, which  was what was required here. Tilney offered Mr S £250 to represent  his 
trouble here.
Another firm of advisers went ahead to advise Mr S in favour of the transfer, which  
proceeded. There was some delay in Mr S receiving  his 25% tax free cash (around 
£17,500). 
Mr S was initially  concerned because  he couldnt  see the tax free cash sum as being 
available in his SIPP. It was identified that the amount of around  £14,200  that was shown, 
was part of this sum.  Mr S has gone  on to say he couldnt understand why it was quicker to 
deposit money online than withdrawing from his fund.
Tilney say the sums of money  identified for investment  had been  mis-calculated (albeit  they 
say to a slight degree),  and this meant  that a slightly lesser  sum remained in cash for Mr S to 
access. So a dis-investment had to be completed to ensure  Mr S was able to with-draw  the 
maximum tax free sum.  Tilney say that due to the growth of the investments in this short 
period, Mr S was not financially disadvantaged.  They went on to offer Mr S £50 in respect of 
this matter.
Mr S also said Tilney  applied the incorrect tax on the income he received from his pension  
which resulted in an overpayment of tax. Tilney said complaints in respect of this aspect 
needed to be made  to EBS as trustees  and administrators of the SIPP. And they provided  a 
copy of the terms of agreement that set this out. Tilney said they had passed this on to EBS.  
Mr S wasnt  happy Tilney said they couldnt  deal with this and that they had passed  on 
information.
An adjudicator at this service  looked  at Mr Ss complaint. She thought Tilney hadnt  done 
everything they ought to have done,  but thought their offer of £300  overall  was sufficient.
Ref: DRN15815072Mr S didnt agree and told us he remained very unhappy. He didnt think their offer was 
adequate given the size of Tilney as a business and the lack of impact  he thinks £300 will 
have. He also stressed that based  on his usual consultancy  rate he doesnt consider this 
compensates him adequately.
Mr S is also unhappy with reference to Tilney offering what they believed was in line with this 
services approach. He was concerned  that there were compensation guidelines that he was 
left with the impression Tilney  had access to, and he felt this put him in an unfair position.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  on 31 March 2020. In this I set out why I thought 
Tilneys original offer was sufficient overall.  Tilney agreed with my provisional  decision.
Mr Ss response:
Mr S didnt find my provisional  decision satisfactory.  He feels  I failed to understand the 
failings of Tilneys customer service. He also thinks that if compensation of sums such as 
£300 continue  to be standard, this service  is enabling businesses  to continue  to behave 
badly. Mr S doesnt feel this service  is doing  all it could or should.
In addition Mr S doesnt think  there has been proper  consideration of the time matters have 
taken him. He thinks this service and the regulator  as part of the financial services sector are 
failing to treat customers fairly. Mr S asks me to increase the sum I think Tilney should pay 
and to ensure  the thrust of his response  is contained  in my decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
thinking from that set out in my provisional  decision. Based on what  Ive seen I think Tilneys 
offer of £300 overall is sufficient, and I dont require them to do anything further.
There are different aspects to Mr Ss complaint, I considered each in turn.
Tilneys handling  of the transfer
I understand Mr S was frustrated Tilney werent willing to advise on the transfer for the initial  
cost sum discussed. But I dont think they were required to do so. I dont consider the 
communications amounted to being  any form of binding agreement. I also dont think it 
would be right to consider  Tilney ought to have understood the nature of the pension 
scheme by the name alone. Even if it could reasonably be said that the name might be 
consistent with an OPS, that doesnt  mean to say it signifies that the scheme was a final 
salary arrangement.
There are specific  requirements involved in the transfer  of such arrangements,  and it is for 
Tilney to set out what they will charge to conduct  such business. Once sufficiently 
understood by the potential consumer, the consumer can then decide  whether to instruct 
Tilney to act on those terms or not. Here  when Tilney gave sufficient information it appears
Mr S chose to instruct another party to act and advise on the transfer.
Ref: DRN15815073Based on what Ive seen  it appears  Tilney received sufficient information on Mr Ss scheme 
to be able to inform him that their costs  would be higher than the initial £1,000  first mooted, 
within a short period of time. It also doesnt appear any substantive  delay was caused,  thus 
causing a transfer quote to lapse for example. So I dont  think  Mr S was caused  any financial 
loss or significant disappointment of expectation by any failing on the part of Tilney here.
Tilney offered £250 to Mr S. I think that was sufficient.
Delay in relation to receiving tax-free cash
Shortly after the transfer Mr S asked  his Tilney investment manager why his tax-free sum 
didnt appear to be available. This enquiry appears to have identified  that due to the 
investment managers  instructions on investment  sums, an insufficient  sum had been left in 
cash to reflect the full tax free sum Mr S was expecting and was entitled  to. So there  was a 
short delay as there had to be a dis-investment to release  a sufficient sum.
Had this caused  any overall loss to Mr S by the delay I would have considered  that Mr S 
ought to have been compensated  for this. But Tilney  informed Mr S immediately on his 
enquiry of their error and that due to investment growth he had not been financially 
disadvantaged; nor were  any charges applied for the dis-investment,  as far as I understand. 
Ive already explained, that if this was not right, I would expect any such  fees or charges to 
be reimbursed.
I informed all parties that if I was wrong  in any of this, I expected to be informed prior to 
reaching my final decision. I havent been  corrected  on any of the detail.
Ive seen that Mr S queried the time it took to withdraw his tax-free funds. It isnt clear to me, 
if this is as a consequence of the delay caused  by the required dis-investment, or in more 
general terms.
Save for the delay caused by the required dis-investment, I dont consider the withdrawal 
process was delayed, protracted or extended  beyond the reasonable period Id expect to see 
when it comes to such withdrawals. There is a difference,  based  on the regulatory 
requirements, as I have no doubt Mr S appreciates, between depositing and withdrawing 
funds into cash accounts as opposed  to pension schemes.
I dont think Tilney did all they ought  to have done here. I think Mr S was clear  enough  he 
wanted the maximum tax-free  cash and as soon as possible. I think the adviser from Tilney 
ought to have ensured Mr S was positioned  to enable this to happen on transfer. Tilney  
offered an additional £50 to represent their error  here. I think  that was enough  taking 
everything into account.
Taxation concerns
Ive seen the terms referred  to by Tilney on the relationship between themselves and EBF in 
relation to such administrative complaints. I can see Mr S would like Tilney to have dealt  with 
this complaint, but I dont believe they are able to, under the terms of administration.  I dont 
think they acted  poorly  or to Mr Ss detriment in referring his complaint to the appropriate 
party.
Additional matters
Ref: DRN15815074Ive previously told Mr S that Ive seen his concerns in relation to references to the type of 
awards this service usually makes. I was sorry he had felt worried by this. We do provide 
general information on our website  and this includes some information on how we approach  
payments we award for distress and inconvenience. We also publish anonymous previous 
decisions on our website,  which can also provide some guidance.
In summary  we explain we generally  try and put a consumer in the position  they ought  to be 
in, had it not be for things going wrong.  But that there is no precise formula to this and 
consequence and impact are part of the overall picture we consider. However it isnt our role 
to punish a business and our awards for distress  and inconvenience are generally modest.
Ive seen all Mr S says in response to my provisional  decision. I appreciate  he feels the 
sums generally awarded by this service  are so moderate as to be ineffectual for some 
business and that they fail to impact  or change bad behaviour. This service looks  at each 
case on its own merits and it isnt our role to punish failings. Wider concerns are matters for 
the regulator.
I have considered everything  with care but I think what Tilney offered  here is sufficient taking 
everything into account.
Conclusion
Here I think Tilneys offer of £300  overall is reasonable to represent  what happened and 
what could have been done better.
Final decision
So for the reasons given I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Tilney Investment Management 
Services Limited in part. Tilney will need  to pay Mr S the sum of £300  they previously 
offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1581507