K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that the service he received from the Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
when he called them on the 7 February 2019  was poor. He also complains that the way his 
complaint was subsequently  dealt with was also poor.
background 
Mr K called Barclays call centre in February 2019,  and Barclays accept that the advisor used 
foul language.  Putting  that into context, the advisor  had asked Mr K for his account  details 
on three occasions and then shortly after he was given them  for the third time, said,  oh no 
s**t Im really sorry Mr K there has been an error I will need  all the details once again.
Mr K was unhappy with the way he was spoken  to and was ultimately transferred to the 
advisors supervisor. He was offered £25 by way of compensation  with an additional £10 to 
cover the costs of his call. The sum of £35 was then paid into his bank  account  directly.
Mr K remained unhappy  with Barclays response and spoke to another department who 
increased the offer of compensation by offering  a further £100,  which  Mr K declined. Mr K 
says that when he called Barclays later to chase his complaint up he learned that his 
complaint had been closed, which caused him further distress.
Mr K was unhappy with Barclays response and so an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but thought the compensation offer from Barclays  was both fair and 
reasonable. Mr K disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
I will not repeat our investigators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
Quite clearly Mr K suffered poor service when he rang Barclays call centre  in February 
2019. Barclays have  apologised  for that service failure and are right to do so. They have 
offered and paid compensation to Mr K in the sum of £35.
Mr K however has a second issue, that being  that when he subsequently called Barclays he 
learned that they had closed his complaint. 
I have seen a text message from Barclays to Mr K which shows that his complaint had been  
re-opened. That clearly  indicates the complaint  had in fact been  closed and I suspect this 
Ref: DRN12059882was because following  his complaint,  immediately  after the incident  and the payment of the 
£35 compensation,  Barclays  assumed the complaint  to be resolved and closed it. However it 
is also clear that Barclays then re-opened the complaint once  Mr K made it clear that he had 
not accepted the £35 in resolution. So I do find the complaint had been closed.
I think we have an unfortunate situation  here. But what I need to decide is whether Barclays 
acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr K. Whilst not wishing to minimise the poor 
level of service Mr K received, it is clear that the advisor made  a single error, in frustration at 
himself and the system  he was working on, and swore once. The comment  was not directed 
personally at Mr K, and it was not the worst  use of bad language one might hear when going 
about our daily business.  However it should  not have occurred and Barclays  accept that.
It is also clear  that Barclays closed the complaint  and this would have come as a surprise to 
Mr K. But they opened it immediately  and made  a further offer of £100  in compensation.
I have given some thought to Barclays compensation  offer.  It now amounts to £135. I know  
Mr K would like compensation in the region of £1,000 but in my view that is far too high. 
£135 represents a sum which is in line with the moderate awards this service would make  for 
distress and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think it is fair and reasonable for 
the minor  failure in service levels.
I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision but Im satisfied that Barclays have, in 
offering Mr K £135  for the failure in service, treated Mr K fairly,  so Im not going  to ask it to 
do anything further .
 
my final decision
Barclays has already  paid Mr K £35. It has also made an offer to pay a further  £100  to settle 
the complaint  and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays  should pay Mr K a further £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1205988