K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
background
Miss D bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a loan. The loan included an
amount to pay for the policy.  The policy provided  cover for Miss D if she couldnt work
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 May 2019, and Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
-I thought Nationwide made  Miss D aware  the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. I accepted  that on the loan application form Miss D indicated she didnt
want PPI. But Nationwide  had provided notes of a call it had with Miss D after it 
received her application.  I thought  it was likely  that PPI was discussed between 
Nationwide and Miss D during  that call, and that the loan agreement was then 
produced.
The PPI was also listed as Optional Credit Insurance on the loan agreement,  and 
was set out separately to the loan amount  Miss D was borrowing. So I thought  it 
wouldve been clear  to Miss D that she had a choice  about taking the cover. 
-Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss D. But it had to give her clear  enough
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted  to buy it. I thought it 
was possible the information Nationwide gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I didnt think better information would have stopped  Miss D 
from buying the policy. This was because:
Miss D was eligible  for the policy.
It was possible Nationwide didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But it was unlikely  Miss D would  have been  affected by any of these.
I thought Miss D couldve found  the policy useful, despite the sick pay she was 
entitled to. Miss D told us she had good sick pay initially, but that it dropped 
significantly after six months,  and that she had no other means  she could have 
relied on for support. But the policy could  have paid out for up to a year if Miss D 
lost her job, and for the duration of the loan if she was too ill to work through  
sickness or accident.  
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement, so I thought Miss D 
would have understood how much  the PPI would cost if she kept the policy  for its 
full term.
Miss D responded  to say, in summary, that she didnt know  the PPI had been added to her 
loan, and there was no evidence  that shed agreed  to it over the phone. She also said she 
didnt need the PPI because she had good  sick pay from work.
Nationwide didnt make  any further representations in response  to my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN11333712my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive noted everything  Miss D has said. But I remain  mindful that the PPI was described as 
Optional Credit Insurance on the loan agreement Miss D signed, and was set out 
separately to the loan amount she was borrowing. 
So without anything  else to support  what Miss D has told me, I havent  been able to safely 
conclude that Nationwide  didnt make her aware that the cover  was optional. On balance, I 
still think its likely that Miss D agreed  to buy the PPI during  a phone call with Nationwide, 
and that the loan agreement was produced on that basis.
Ive also noted  what Miss D has said about her sick pay. But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think Miss D couldve found the policy useful if she wasnt  working, despite the 
sick pay she says she was entitled  to.
Overall, Im not persuaded to depart  from the position set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1133371