K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that his claim  has been  unfairly and unreasonably declined  by AXA France 
vie. He says that he had comprehensive cancer cover, not a personal  accident policy.  Mr A 
wants matters put right.
background
Mr A thought  that he had comprehensive  cancer cover with AXA,  taken out through another  
financial business He said that he was advised about insurance  by another financial 
business before 1993 and he chose to take out comprehensive  cancer  cover  at that time. 
Mr A said that he already  had private health  insurance and life assurance,  so he wouldnt 
have taken out a personal accident  policy. Mr A was later diagnosed  with cancer and made  
an unsuccessful claim to AXA, who said that the policy in place was a personal accident 
policy and it didnt include comprehensive cancer cover.
Mr A complained to AXA. It said Mr A had a personal accident policy with it, and cancer 
wasnt caused by an accident. AXA pointed out that the policy excluded sickness  or disease.
Mr A complained to us. AXA said that it was willing to consider retrospective  claims for 
accidents covered  by the policy if sufficient evidence supporting the claim was provided by 
Mr A, but it reiterated that the policy  didnt  cover cancer. It also provided copies of letters  
sent to Mr A over the years about  his policy. 
The investigators view was that there was very little evidence about what  happened when 
the policy was sold, but he believed Mr A took out a personal accident policy  in 1993, which 
was now held by AXA. He said that AXA had marked  the policy as one from the financial 
business who sold it to Mr A, and it didnt  cover claims due to cancer.  The investigator 
thought that AXAs offer to consider any claims Mr A couldve made and hadnt yet made 
was fair and reasonable. He didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr A disagreed. He said he took out full cover and what  he now had didnt compare to what  
he believed  he had been sold. Mr A didnt accept  that hed taken out a personal  accident 
policy and he always ensured  that he was fully protected for all possible insurable  events. 
Mr A said AXA and the other financial business  involved  had provided  false evidence  and he 
had taken out the cover before 1993 and noted that his premiums  had varied in a way 
different to that set out in the documents provided. 
The investigator didnt  change his view but explained that Mr As premiums had changed 
because a decision was made in 2015  to reduce premiums substantially  and then freeze  the 
premiums for two years and only from 2017 increase the premium by 2% (not the 5% a year 
set out in the policy). The investigator  said that this change didnt mean false evidence  had 
been provided. He also commented  that there was no evidence Mr A had been sold 
comprehensive cancer cover, as opposed to personal accident cover. Mr A asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13617972The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  
Ive had the benefit of dealing with Mr As complaint  against the financial business  who sold 
the policy to him. There are relevant findings from that decision I should set out here. In my 
other final decision, I found  that a personal accident  policy was taken out by Mr A, that there  
was no evidence that comprehensive cancer  cover was taken out as Mr A had lost his 
documents, and I wasnt persuaded that false evidence had been  provided by AXA or the 
other financial business. The investigators explanation about why the premiums  had 
changed is in my view correct, having considered the evidence,  and while I noted the lack of 
evidence from the time of sale in 1993, I thought that there was sufficient to for me to find 
that the policy in place  now is the policy AXA has underwritten  and that it started in 1993. 
AXA became the insurer  after the policy was taken out and was underwritten by other  
insurers.
These findings mean that the policy AXA has underwritten for Mr A is a personal  accident 
policy and the terms and conditions do exclude sickness and illness. It isnt unfair  or 
unreasonable for AXA to decline Mr As claim due to cancer  as a result.
I note that AXA has agreed to consider  any claims valid under the terms and conditions of 
the policy if Mr A provides  sufficient evidence of his earlier accidents. Thats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 
2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1361797