K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  did not act responsibly by 
providing loans  to her.
background
Ms R entered into three loans with QuickQuid between March and November 2017. The first 
loan was refinanced and the second loan was topped up.
Loan Amount Date Additional information Repaid 
1 £300 Mar 2017 Refinanced May 2017 
(additional £100)Jun 2017
2 £400 Aug 2017 Top up Aug 2017 (£100) Oct 2017
3 £850 Nov 2017
Ms R says that at the time the loans were  provided  she was in a vulnerable situation. She 
says she was told the monthly repayments  would be manageable and reasonable but this 
wasnt the case. She says she was unable to repay  the loans causing her mental  health  
issues. 
QuickQuid says that before the loans  were provided  it conducted its standard  credit  
assessment and gathered details of her income and expenses. It says that based  on the 
information it received  the loans were affordable. It says that Ms R took out only three  loans 
which didnt suggest  a dependency  on the loans and that after Ms R told it about her 
financial hardship in January  2018 no new loans were provided.
Our adjudicator thought that further checks should  have  been carried  out before the loans 
were provided. But said that based  on the information provided she couldnt say whether 
loan one (including the refinance) and loan two shouldnt  have been  provided. She did think  
that given the information  provided by Ms R and the repayment amounts that the top up of 
loan two and loan three shouldnt have been  provided. She recommended  that the interest 
and charges on these  loans  be refunded (along with interest)  and that amendments were  
made to Ms Rs credit file.
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view, and so this case has now been passed  to 
me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN16525242But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Ms R could  sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
Checks were carried  out in regard to Ms Rs income,  expenses  and creditworthiness.  I 
havent seen any details of Ms Rs income  or expenses from the time of the loan aside from 
the details provided  in her loan applications.  I can see that Ms R was on a relatively low 
income and that the repayment  required under the first loan was significant  compared to her 
income. She then refinanced this loan. However, as this was Ms Rs first loan,  without further 
information I dont  find I can say QuickQuid should  have  realised  this loan was unaffordable.
Ms R repaid  the first loan and took out a second  loan a few weeks later. This was for £400 
repayable over three instalments.  The final repayment amount was substantial  compared to 
her income. At this point, given the size of the repayment I think that QuickQuid should have 
been concerned  about  Ms Rs ability to sustainably  repay this loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint from when the second  loan was topped  up. The loan 
was topped up with a further £100  a week after it was taken out. I agree that by this point 
this point, given  the size of the repayments  compared to Ms Rs income and her declared 
disposable income along with her pattern of lending QuickQuid should  have realised this 
loan wasnt sustainably affordable.
Ref: DRN16525243Ms Rs third loan was for £850 and had a repayment  amount higher than her disposable  
income and so I dont  find this loan should have been provided.
Overall, without further information I dont find I have enough to say that the first loan 
shouldnt have been provided. I also dont  find I can say the second  loan should  have been 
provided.
However, I find that QuickQuid should have realised at the point of the top up on loan two 
that lending to Ms R wasnt sustainable  and this and the subsequent loan shouldnt have 
been provided.
my final decision
My final decision is that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Ms R paid from the top up of loan two (dated 14 
August 2017) and loan three;
remove any interest and charges from the outstanding balance on Ms Rs loan, 
leaving only the capital loan amount borrowed;
remove any adverse information  about  these loans to date from Ms Rs credit  file.
QuickQuid can expect  Ms R to repay any remaining capital  balance after the redress is 
deducted. But if she is in financial difficulty  wed expect it to treat her positively and 
sympathetically, working her to find a suitable repayment arrangement that accommodates 
her present  financial situation  regarding this new balance.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If 
QuickQuid intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance,  it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1652524