K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P complains Barclays Bank  UK PLC unfairly closed her current  account and held
on to funds after it closed.  She says they also unfairly registered a marker with the
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAs). She wants them to refund the funds owed
to her, remove the marker, reopen  her account and assist her with a renewed  benefit claim.
Background
Mrs P was a customer of Barclays and held a current  account them.  In April 2018 £290,808 
was deposited  to her account, after which £150,000  was transferred to her husbands 
account held with a different bank. The funds originated from the encashment  of an 
investment product held by Mrs Ps mother. Mrs P says her mother agreed to the transaction.
Shortly after the transactions took place, the firm that held Mrs Ps mothers  account asked
for the funds to be returned. As a result, the remaining funds in Mrs Ps account were sent
back to her mothers account. Barclays contacted Mrs Ps husbands bank and asked for the
£150,000 to be returned, which they agreed to do. Eventually all of the £290,808 was
remitted back to her mothers account.
Mrs P says the remittance  was instigated by persons who have  an enduring power  of
attorney over her mothers affairs.  Mrs P says her mother still has capacity and is able to
give instructions independent  of her attorneys. She says she is taking  steps to have  the
attorneys investigated  by the Office of the Public Guardian.
Barclays decided they no longer wanted  Mrs P as their customer and gave her notice in May
2018 that they were closing her account  with immediate effect. They  said the remaining
balance on her account was £8.60, and Mrs P could  come into branch to withdraw this sum.
Mrs P complained to Barclays.  She said they hold £509.72 of her own funds which were
separate to the funds remitted back to her mothers account. She said her account  shouldnt
have been closed as the transaction  made  by her mother was legitimate. She said shed
received advice from an independent financial advisor in relation to the encashment of the
investment product, and theyd sought advice from the Court of Protection  and the product
provider. The police  had also brought  both her and her husband  in for questioning, and
theyd been cleared of any wrongdoing.
Mrs P further stated shed  been  unable to open  an account elsewhere  and thinks  this is the
result of Barclays registering  a marker on the national fraud database operated by CIFAs.
Their actions caused important benefit  payments  to cease and prevented  her from
encashing funds  she holds in an independent  savings  account.
Barclays said theyd closed Mrs Ps account in line with the terms and conditions of her 
account and wouldnt  reopen it. They also said theyd refunded  the remaining balance  of
£8.60 to Mrs Ps account. This is the balance that remained after funds were  remitted back
to Mrs Ps mothers  account, so they didnt owe her any money.
Unhappy with this response Mrs P brought her complaint to us. An investigator  looked into
her concerns  and decided  to uphold her complaint. In summary they found:
-Barclays had not demonstrated  they had sufficient evidence to register shown a CIFAs 
marker.
Ref: DRN18129142-Claytons Rule was relevant to how much money remained in Mrs Ps account  after the 
remittance of her mothers funds. The rule means generally that money  which is first put 
into an account  is deemed to be the first transferred  out of an account. So, when Mrs P 
transferred £150,000  to her husbands account,  part of this represented the balance she 
held in her account prior to the encashment of the investment product held by her 
mother. As a result, Barclays didnt owe her any money.
-Barclays had correctly  followed the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account  when 
closing it, so it wouldnt be appropriate to ask them  to reopen the account.
Barclays responded to the investigators opinion and disagreed that they should remove  any
marker they registered  in relation to Mrs P. However, following discussions with another
investigator theyve now confirmed they were  holding on to £509.72 of funds belonging to
Mrs P. Theyve said they will transfer  those  funds to an account held by Mrs P, if they are
given her account details. An investigator contacted  the person representing  Mrs P on this
complaint to let them  know Barclays need  this information, but theyve yet to receive  a reply.
Mrs P didnt respond to the investigators  opinion, but as Barclays  disagree  on whether the
CIFAs marker should be removed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Ps complaint, as I disagreed with the outcome 
reached by the first investigator.  Subject to further commentary or evidence I found Barclays  
should repay Mrs P the funds they had been  holding, plus simple  interest  at 8% per annum. 
But I also found that Barclays didnt need  to remove the CIFAs marker  based on all the 
information and evidence available to me. I now provide a copy  of the findings from my 
provisional decision, as they are relevant to and form part of this final decision:
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im minded not to direct
Barclays to remove the CIFAs marker.  But, I am minded to direct  them  to add 8% simple
interest per annum to the £509.72 of Mrs Ps funds they held on to. Ill explain why.
It seems  to me there are three main points I need to decide in relation to Mrs Ps complaint.
The first is whether it was appropriate for Barclays to register a marker on the national fraud
database in relation to her. The second is whether it was fair for Barclays to close  her
account in the manner  they did. And, the third is whether  Barclays correctly calculated  the
remaining balance on Mrs Ps account after her mothers funds were  remitted.  Ill address
each point in turn.
The fraud marker
Our investigator found that Barclays hadnt demonstrated theyd sufficient evidence to
register a marker against Mrs P on the national fraud database  operated by CIFAs. CIFAs
current guidelines  require  evidence to be clear, relevant and rigorous and the investigator
understood similar guidelines existed at the time the marker  was registered, and Barclays
hadnt met them.
Ref: DRN18129143Ive considered very carefully the evidence Barclays relied on to register a marker, and I find 
what theyve presented lacking in terms of the standard CIFAs requires of its members to 
register a marker. But Ive also needed  to consider all the wider evidence Ive available in
order to reach an outcome I think is fair and reasonable.  And having  done so, I find there is
sufficient evidence to meet  the standard CIFAs requires.
I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed by my current conclusion. And I want her to know  I
have considered the evidence from the police shes submitted. But that evidence  indicates
the police  decided not to pursue  matters further  at the time.  And this is a quite a different
matter to whether  theres enough  evidence  to meet the evidential  standard  required for a
marker to be registered on the national fraud database.
I also dont doubt  Mrs P experienced the difficulties she says she did. And Ive considered in
particular what shes said about  her personal  circumstances in terms of not being able to
receive benefit payments. But based on everything  Ive seen and all the information Ive
available, I currently think its inappropriate to require  Barclays to remove  the marker they
recorded.
The account  closure
Ive listened carefully  to what Mrs P has said about  the impact the account closure had on
her. But Barclays are entitled to terminate their relationship  with one of their customers in the
same way that one of their customers may choose to no longer bank with them. Its
important, however, that they close an account  in line with the account terms and conditions.
And its also important that their decision wasnt made for an improper reason.
Barclays closed Mrs Ps account with immediate effect.  So, Ive considered whether the
qualifying conditions in their terms were met for them to take this action. Having looked at
the evidence Ive available Im satisfied  several  of the those conditions  fairly apply to Mrs Ps
circumstances, so I find the account was closed appropriately and for a legitimate reason. 
I wont currently be asking them to reopen  her account.
Mrs Ps remaining account balance
Barclays have reconsidered their position in relation  to whether it owed Mrs P any funds.
They now agree they held on to £509.72,  when this seemingly  ought to have been available
for Mrs P to withdraw prior to her account closing. Theyre  prepared to transfer this sum to
Mrs P. I agree Barclays  ought  to have allowed her to access this money  sooner and they
made an error when  calculating what her remaining balance shouldve been  after the funds
paid by her mother were returned  to source.
I find, however,  that Barclays should  also calculate 8% simple  interest  per annum on top of 
the amount they owe Mrs P up until the time the money is transferred to her. This is to 
represent the potential loss she may have experienced, had she had access  to the money at 
the time her account closed.
After issuing the provisional decision  Barclays accepted  my findings  and asked for payment  
details from Mrs P to transfer the redress payment. Mrs P however did not respond to the 
provisional decision and has yet to contact our service to provide the account details to 
which she would like the payment to be made. 
Ref: DRN18129144My findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. So, Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Ps 
complaint in part.
Putting things  right
I direct  Barclays Bank Plc to pay Mrs P £509.72, plus 8% simple interest per annum on that 
sum from the date of when her account  closed up until the point payment is made. This is 
contingent on Mrs P giving Barclays details of the account to which she would like payment to 
be made, or by her providing  them another reasonable way to make secure payment to her.
I do not direct Barclays to remove the CIFAs marker they registered against Mrs P on the 
national fraud database.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and detailed further in the findings  of my provisional 
decision (which form part of this decision),  Ive decided  to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I require 
Barclays Bank Plc to put things right in the manner  Ive described, unless they have already 
done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1812914