K821x#15complaint
Miss B feels that Shawbrook Bank  Limited has treated her unfairly in relation to a finance 
agreement regarding work done  on the external parts of her house.
background
Earlier this month I issued  a provisional decision which  both parties have now responded to. 
I shall address those responses  in my findings. The background of the matter is as follows.
In June 2018, Miss B entered into a contract  with a home improvements company for 
improvements to parts of her front roof and her rear roof. This work by the home 
improvements company  was paid for through finance provided  by Shawbrook.
After a survey and some external work done by the home improvement company Miss B 
engaged a third-party roofer (the Roofer) who attended the property and did some 
significant work in the internal/structural parts of her roof in those areas. The Roofer charged 
£995 for the work  on the rear roof and £1150 for the front part of the roof.
There then was a period  of disagreement  between the home  improvements company and 
Miss B. She spoke to Shawbrook and they withheld paying the finance advance  to the home 
improvement company.  There  was then significant three-way discussions between  Miss B, 
Shawbrook and the home improvement  company. Eventually the finance agreement  was 
reworked due to changes in position. This included the home  improvement company 
removing £300  from the price  of the works for the felt issue and the amounts and deposit 
due being altered.
This new finance agreement was signed in November 2018  by Miss B for a total price  of 
£5500, repaid over 96 months  and a total credit amount of £5301. Miss B signed the 
customer satisfaction note in December 2018 after the works  were completed and after that 
Shawbrook released  the funds to the home improvement company.
Miss B remained unhappy and complained  to Shawbrook. It had been involved in the dispute  
with the home improvement company for an extended period  of time. Its position is that a 
discount had been applied to the work by the home  improvement company, the work had 
been completed to Miss Bs satisfaction, that the delays suffered  were not its fault and that 
the remaining  unhappiness Miss B has towards  the home improvement company are 
customer service  issues  for which Shawbrook isnt responsible  under  its obligations  under 
Section 75.
Shawbrook and Miss B agree that all the work originally required has now been done.  
However Miss B remained unhappy.  She says she shouldnt  have  had to pay for the Roofer 
work as she says she was told that it would be part of the agreed price with the home 
improvement company.  She says the customer service she has received has been  awful.  
She says she has found the entire  process  hugely stressful.  She feels there  should be also a 
reduction in the amount she owes to redress what happened.
As the views  of our Investigator were not accepted this complaint comes  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN16678232my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I made the following comments (in italics) and made  the following 
findings:
There is no dispute that Miss B entered into an agreement with the home improvement 
company to do external work on her house  and used a Fixed  Sum Loan Agreement with 
Shawbrook to pay for it. Its also clear that this was reworked and reagreed in November 
2018. And Miss B signed off the work in December 2018. The original  agreement  was 
signed in June 2018. So clearly these events took time.
Miss B is complaining under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.The  general  effect  
of Section 75 is that if Miss B has a claim for material misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services (the home improvement company), she can 
also bring that claim against the credit provider  (Shawbrook here) provided certain 
conditions are met. Shawbrook says that all matters it is responsible for under section 75 
have been settled with the completion  of the work in December 2018.
I found that the conditions  for a Section 75 claim as set out in the Act had been met in this 
case. But I had disagreed  with the findings of the investigator and explained my position 
contrary to those of the Investigator.  Miss B has accepted  my decision and Shawbrook  has 
provided further comments from the home  improvements company. Both parties  have my 
provisional decision and accordingly I see little to be gained  by explaining my reasoning  on 
the elements of complaint  that I didnt uphold as Miss B has accepted my position and 
Shawbrook dont disagree with my position therein. 
I then pointed out that Miss B had tried to cancel  the contract. My key points were as follows.
Miss B requested to cancel in July 2018 by email and at that point  said she was still missing 
some of the products that were meant  to be supplied  under the contract. I cant  see any 
persuasive evidence  that this was disputed by the home improvement company  at the time. 
So I think Miss B should have been  allowed to cancel at this point.  
So Miss B was left in the position  that she couldnt make  an informed choice about what to 
do next and instead had to arrange for the roof repairs to take place immediately. She could  
though have cancelled the agreement albeit she may have had to pay the home 
improvement company  the costs it had incurred up to that point. But when she asked to 
cancel it seems likely she was told she couldnt.  So I do think  there has been  a breach of 
contract which Shawbrook needs to put right. 
So I think the fairest thing  to do to put things right is to remove  the interest applied to the 
additional borrowing  Miss B took to complete the works, this would put Miss B in the same 
position she would have been in had she saved the money to pay for the repairs  before 
contracting the home improvement company to do the work. So Shawbrook  should rework 
Miss Bs account removing any interest  applied as a result of the additional borrowing she 
took out under the second agreement. The additional  borrowing should not incur any interest 
for the remainder of the agreement  and Miss Bs payments towards the agreement should 
be allocated to the portion of the borrowing  where interest is chargeable first. 
Ref: DRN16678233Accordingly I currently think this complaint should be upheld  and Shawbrook should rework 
the agreement  as Ive described. I appreciate that all parties  are somewhat resolute in their 
positions and that this position may not find universal favour. But I think  this cancellation 
issue is the only area where Shawbrook hasnt done as it should. And as for the numerous  
other issues that have  been raised I think theyve  either been resolved by the work  being 
completed or are issues which Miss B has with the home improvement company which sit 
outside of the responsibilities that Shawbrook has under Section 75. And hence  my position  
as described.
Shawbrook seemingly unaware of this cancellation attempt asked for the evidence I relied 
upon, which was then provided.  Shawbrook  then provided comments  of the home 
improvement company  but has chosen  not to make  any representations itself. It is unclear 
why Shawbrook didnt  address this matter when Miss B first took her claim under Section 75 
some time ago.
The home improvement  company accept the terms allowing for cancellation are correct.  I 
doesnt dispute the email Miss B sent or my pointing towards  it. It says that Miss B did have 
an opportunity to make an informed  decision  at the point of cancellation.  But it is clear that 
Miss Bs cancellation wasnt  accepted on receipt. But rather there were was ongoing  
correspondence and discussion  and she had to seek external parties to do further work at 
her extra cost.
The home improvement  company says she was at liberty to cancel if she wished. But Im not 
persuaded her cancellation attempt was fairly dealt with and I note that the home 
improvement company  have not provided or pointed to any evidence  to the contrary. It 
simply disagrees. I am obliged  to consider things fairly and reasonably. And in the absence 
of any persuasive evidence to the contrary it is clear to me that Miss B did cancel and was 
allowed to in the circumstances at the time she did under the contract.  So she should have 
been allowed  to do so. So Shawbrook should put things right. The fact that she accepted the 
works when  finally  completed were  complete  doesnt mean  she didnt try to get out of the 
contract in the email  Ive pointed to. But as Ive argued she has had the benefit  of those 
works and hence  my position.
Miss B has accepted  my position and made  a number of other comments. I appreciate  her 
position and what  shes been through. But I see little to be gained  by commenting on her 
comments in light of her accepting my provisional  decision.
Having considered everything  that has been said and done and all the circumstances here I 
am satisfied  in the round that Shawbrook has done something wrong which it needs to put 
right.
Putting things  right
Accordingly I direct Shawbrook  to rework  Miss Bs account removing  any interest applied as 
a result of the additional borrowing she took out under the second  agreement.  The additional 
borrowing should not incur any interest  for the remainder of the agreement  and Miss Bs 
payments towards  the agreement should be allocated to the portion of the borrowing where 
interest is chargeable first.
Ref: DRN16678234My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold the complaint  about  Shawbrook Bank Limited  and 
direct it to rework the account as described  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1667823