K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about a hire purchase  agreement he had with RCI Financial Services Limited 
T/A: Nissan Finance. He believes that Nissan  Finance failed to correctly set out what  was 
due when he asked  to voluntary terminate his agreement. And he feels  hes been 
overcharged when  he did voluntary terminate.  
background
Mr J had a hire purchase agreement with Nissan  Finance and asked to voluntary terminate 
the agreement  around April 2018. Nissan Finance sent him a voluntary termination notice 
setting out the requirements and amount due to complete the voluntary termination. 
Mr J proceeded with the voluntary termination but believes hes paid more  than was required 
to complete the voluntary  termination. He raised  this with Nissan Finance and that he 
believes he should be due a refund. Nissan Finance  explained that it did not consider a 
refund was due as repayments to the hire purchase  agreement were paid in arrears. Nissan 
Finance believes  it correctly calculated the termination amount.   
Unhappy with Nissan Finances response, Mr J referred his complaint to our service.  One of 
our investigators looked at what the parties had said and provided  but explained that she 
didnt think there were grounds  to uphold the complaint. She thought that Nissan Finance 
had correctly calculated  the voluntary termination amount and didnt believe that Mr J was 
due a refund.  
Mr J remained  unhappy with the investigators findings and asked for the case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. In summary,  he still doesnt accept that Nissan  Finances 
voluntary termination  notice was clear. Or that he is not due a refund. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have not upheld Mr Js 
complaint and my reasons for this are set out below.  
Mr J had a hire purchase agreement with Nissan  Finance and this type of credit  allows  
consumers to voluntary  terminate the agreement, in certain circumstances. The intention  of 
this is to allow consumers  to hand back the car and end the agreement early and avoid 
being required to run the agreement to its full term. 
Voluntary termination is set out under section 99 1of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA). 
Section 100 2of the CCA refers to the liability on termination of the agreement. 
The agreement Mr J had with Nissan Finance is required to include some specific wording 
around voluntary  termination and the agreement includes this. In summary,  it states  that 
Mr J can terminate the agreement and Nissan Finance will be entitled to return  of the goods, 
i.e. car. Mr Js liability will be half of the total amount payable,  which  in this case  is 
£13,072.92. It also states that if Mr J has already paid at least this amount, plus any overdue 
1 www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/39/section/99
2 www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/39/section/100
Ref: DRN11568422instalments and has taken  reasonable car of the goods he will not have to pay anything 
more. 
No additional  charges  were applied in relation to any damage  to the car and both parties  
accept that Mr J paid more than the £13,072.92 set out in the agreement.  Mr J believes that 
as hes paid more  than this amount he should  be refunded  the difference  in what he has 
paid. Nissan Finance has said that as the agreement is paid in arrears Mr J is expected to 
pay for the use that hes had of the car and even though hes paid more  than the £13,072.92 
the additional sums reflect the use hes had of the car up to the point of termination. 
Both parties  appear to now accept that Mr Js repayments are paid in arrears. I understand 
Mr J collected the car on 29 June  2015 and his first payment was not made until 1 August 
2019. That first payment  is clearly more than one month after Mr J took possession of the 
car, albeit  only slightly. I dont think it was unreasonable  for Nissan Finance to take the first 
repayment just after one month, but essentially only charging for one full month.  Had the 
agreement run its full 36 months  Mr J would have  had 36 months use and made all 
repayments for that period. 
Mr J exercised his right to voluntary terminate  the agreement, as he was entitled  to do, and it 
didnt therefore  run its full term. The termination   your rights  notice in Mr Js agreement 
does refer to Nissan  Finance  being  entitled to half of the total amount  payable. But this does 
not mean that Mr J would never be required to pay anything more  than this and the notice 
specifically refers to any overdue instalments being  required. Mr Js agreement was 
terminated on 17 April 2018  and he would therefore  be liable for any instalments that were  
due up to that point. Mr Js last repayment  was made on 1 April 2018 and as the repayments 
are paid in arrears this would mean  that Mr J had paid for the use he had had up to and 
including 1 April 2018. 
This means  that Mr J had use of the car for 33 months and 18 days  but as he made 33 
monthly repayments, hasnt paid for the full use of the car. I appreciate  Mr Js 33 repayments 
of £200.19 amount to more than the £13,072.92 set out on the agreement  but again reiterate 
that the £13,072.92 is not the maximum amount required to be paid. 
I think its also worth referring to section 99(2) of the CCA that states that termination  of an 
agreement does not affect any liability under the agreement which has accrued before the 
termination. As referred to above, Im satisfied the repayments Mr J had made reflect  the 
use he had from the car. As Mr J had possession of the car, along with the ability  to use it, 
up to the point of termination Im satisfied Mr J was liable to make all repayments that fell 
due up to the point of termination. If Nissan Finance was required to refund, either fully or 
partially, any of the repayments Mr J made  he would have essentially had use of the car 
without paying  for that use. This would be unreasonable and not what is expected in the 
terms of his contract or the CCA. I dont therefore  think that Nissan  Finance  has acted 
unreasonably by not refunding any of Mr Js repayments. 
Ive also noted  that Mr J believes the voluntary termination notice is unclear as it does not 
state the final monthly payment will be included in the termination figure. Ive considered 
what Nissan Finance  set out when Mr J enquired  about voluntary termination, but I dont 
agree with Mr J that it was unclear.  It sets out the provisional amount to be paid and 
indicates in several  places  this amount may change if, for example,  repayments are returned 
unpaid by the bank or damage charges are applied. 
Ref: DRN11568423I accept it makes no explicit mention  of the final monthly payment being included in the 
termination figure, but I dont think thats unreasonable or makes the notice  unclear  around 
what is due. The rentals section correctly refers to the amount already  paid and this is again 
clear and reasonably  set out in my view. I think it would be reasonable to expect to pay for 
the use already  had from the car up to the point of termination. And therefore that the 
repayments made already would be kept by Nissan Finance to reflect  that use. 
I appreciate Mr J may remain unhappy  with the outcome of his complaint but Im satisfied 
that Nissan Finance  has acted fairly  and reasonably in setting out what  liability  is due on 
voluntary termination  in this case. Mr J may have incorrectly believed that his liability would 
be limited to a maximum of £13,073.92 but I dont believe this was as a result of being  
misled by Nissan Finance. I havent  seen anything to indicate the voluntary termination  sum 
was incorrect. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint  against  RCI Financial Services  
Limited T/A: Nissan  Finance and I dont consider there to be any grounds for Mr J to be 
refunded any of the sums hes already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1156842