K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) declined  her claim for 
critical illness benefit and subsequently cancelled  her policy.  
background
In November 2016, Mrs G applied for a level-term assurance policy  with life and critical 
illness cover.  The sum assured was £40,000 with a 10 year term. Mrs G signed  and returned  
the application to LV on 11 November 2016,  via her independent financial advisor. LV said 
Mrs G was asked the following question as part of her application:
In the last 5 years have  you had any of the following: (This is regardless of whether or 
not you have seen your doctor or required  treatment.)
a mole or freckle  that has bled, become painful,  changed appearance  or any 
lump or growth?
Mrs G answered  "no" to this question on her application  which LV received  on 
3 November 2016. LV then wrote to Mrs G offering her terms for cover,  which asked her to 
let it know of any changes  in her health or circumstances  between  the date she completed 
her application  and the start date of her policy. 
On 13 November 2016, Mrs G visited her doctor about a lump on her head, which had grown  
over several years. Mrs G says she wanted  the lump removed for cosmetic  reasons and her 
doctor referred her to a cosmetic surgeon.  Mrs Gs medical records say:
Date        Problem Associated Text Dated  Ended

05-May-2017   Lipoma  of scalp NGH. Rt frontal 17-Dec-2017
19-Dec-2016    Lump NGH. Forehead 18-May-2017
13-Nov-2016    Lump Rt side of forehead (New Episode) 18-May-2017
Mrs Gs independent  financial  advisor instructed LV to start the policy  on 
24 November 2016. Her policy began the next day.
Mrs G saw a cosmetic  surgeon on 19 December 2016, who requested  an ultrasound  of the 
lump. The next day, the surgeon  said:
She gives a history  of a lump on her forehead which has been  present for about two 
years. This has grown in size. She started getting  headaches and that is why did 
seek medical attention  for his lump.  She tells me now that her headaches have 
recovered
On examination it is not possible  to ascertain whether this is a lipoma or an 
osteoma. It is very likely to be a lipoma.
However, I would  like to arrange  an ultrasound scan to confirm  my clinical  impression 
before I offer her surgical excision.
Ref: DRN11995832The ultrasound and following investigations confirmed the lump was a lipoma,  but it also led 
to Mrs G being diagnosed with a benign brain  tumour in March  2017 and an aneurism in 
May 2017.
Mrs G made  a claim on her CIC policy in July 2018. LV asked  for a report  on her medical 
history, which Mrs Gs doctor provided.  Having reviewed her records,  LV said Mrs G failed to 
disclose the lipoma  and her history of migraines  when making her application for CIC cover. 
LV noted  Mrs G was then referred to a cosmetic surgeon on the day her policy  began  and 
said she had a duty to disclose the doctors  appointment  on 13 November 2016, which  led to 
the referral. 
LV said Mrs G ought to have answered  "yes" to its question about whether  she had a lump,  
which she admitted to having for a number  of years. If Mrs G had answered yes to its 
question, LV said it wouldnt have offered her cover until the diagnosis was known and any 
investigations or treatment were  complete  and the results were  with her doctor. LV said 
Mrs Gs misrepresentation was careless  and it wouldnt  have offered her cover.  So LV 
cancelled Mrs Gs policy from its start date and refunded her premiums.  
Mrs G said she just had a fatty lump, which wasnt a concern so she didnt disclose it. She 
said it was unrelated to her headaches  or the tumour and aneurism. When  applying for the 
policy, Mrs G disclosed other medical  conditions, which had been  genuine  concerns.  Mrs G 
referred her complaint  to our service.
Our investigator reviewed  LVs manual underwriting guidance. If Mrs G had disclosed the 
lump, LVs guidance indicated it wouldve asked whether she was awaiting any 
investigations or been referred to a hospital specialist, such  as a dermatologist  or surgeon. 
The underwriting guidance said if Mrs G was referred to a specialist, her application 
wouldve been referred for manual  underwriting.  But if Mrs G had been discharged for the 
lipoma, she would have been  offered cover  on standard  terms. 
LV said an underwriter would have  requested  a report  from Mrs Gs doctor to see if a 
diagnosis was known.  LVs underwriters have said that without a diagnosis,  it would have  
followed the common sense approach  of waiting for the lump to have been investigated and 
a diagnosis made before offering cover. It referred to the cosmetic surgeons  letter  of 
20 December 2016, which said Mrs G sought  medical attention for her lipoma because  of 
headaches as a further cause for concern  which would have led to it delaying a decision on 
offering cover.
Our investigator contacted the doctor Mrs G saw on 13 November 2016.  On 29 March  2019, 
the doctor said:
I originally made  the referral regarding the swelling  on her forehead and my 
diagnosis was a Lipoma,  as I have recorded in the notes. I didnt feel there was 
anything untoward  or suspicious. 
Our investigator thought that if Mrs G disclosed the lump to LV and it had contacted her 
doctor, LV wouldve  been told the doctor had no concerns about the lump and Mrs G 
requested the referral  for the lump to be removed  purely for cosmetic reasons. 
Ref: DRN11995833Our investigator upheld  Mrs Gs claim, saying LV wouldve accepted the evidence  of Mrs Gs 
doctor and offered cover under its standard terms. The investigator didnt think  Mrs Gs 
misrepresentation entitled LV to decline her claim. But LV disagreed,  reiterating it wouldve  
adopted a more cautious approach and waited  for the outcome of the referral  to the cosmetic 
surgeon before offering cover. So this was referred to me for a decision.
I issued provisional  decision on 30 May 2019,  which explained why I didnt think Mrs Gs 
complaint should  be upheld.  I didnt  think her doctors notes support a diagnosis of a lipoma 
being made on 13 November 2016, before the policy began. I said if Mrs G had disclosed her 
lump, and LV contacted her doctor,  I thought LV would have asked whether Mrs G had been 
referred to a specialist or been discharged  and her doctor wouldve told LV about her 
referral to a cosmetic surgeon. LV said it wouldnt have offered Mrs G cover until it knew  the 
outcome of her referral to a surgeon. I didnt  think her policy wouldve been in place when her 
condition was diagnosed, so I didnt  think LV was obliged to pay her claim. 
In response, Mrs G said she answered  LVs question about  whether shed had any lump in 
the last five years truthfully. This was because shed had the lump for a lot more  than five 
years. She didnt  recognise the surgeons  comments that shed  had the lump for about two 
years. Mrs G recalled discussing the question  with her financial advisor, who arranged  the 
policy, and concluding  she should answer  no to the question. 
Mrs G emphasised that she didnt deliberately try to conceal any information from LV, and 
the matter has been  very distressing for her. Mrs G pointed out she disclosed other 
conditions on her application. Mrs G hadnt thought of making a claim until her financial 
advisor told her she should  contact  LV. Mrs G was also unhappy LV cancelled her policy, 
and would have  preferred  LV to continue the policy with some exclusions in place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the available 
evidence, I dont think this is a complaint I should uphold. I realise my decision will be very 
disappointing for Mrs G, but Ill explain my reasons.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA placed Mrs G under a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided LV has asked  her a clear question. If Mrs G didnt take reasonable 
care to answer questions  accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available  to LV. 
was there  a misrepresentation?
I first need to decide whether Mrs G met her obligation to take reasonable care when 
completing her application for insurance. If she didnt do so, this amounts to a 
misrepresentation. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mrs G suffered  headaches  and had a lump on her 
forehead, which  she knew  about  at the time of her application. Mrs G was asked:
 
In the last 5 years have  you had any of the following: (This is regardless of whether or 
not you have seen your doctor or required  treatment.)
Ref: DRN11995834a mole or freckle  that has bled, become painful,  changed appearance  or any 
lump or growth?
This means  Mrs G was asked  if she had any lump or growth in the last 5 years.  In saying 
shed had the lump  more  than five years, Mrs G seems to suggest  her interpretation of the 
question required her only to declare  a lump or growth that has bled,  become  painful or 
changed appearance.  But I dont think this is a reasonable interpretation of the question.  I 
think the question  asked Mrs G clearly if she had a mole or freckle that had changed or any 
lump or growth in the last five years. Mrs G was aware she had a lump in the last five years, 
so I think she needed to respond positively to the question about whether she had any lump  
in the last five years.  
I know Mrs G says she didnt intend to mis-lead LV, but I remain  of the view that a 
misrepresentation occurred. I note Mrs G discussed  her answers with her independent 
financial advisor and she may wish to pursue this matter with her advisor separately. 
A qualifying  misrepresentation will have occurred  if the information Mrs G failed to disclose 
wouldve made a difference  to the terms LV wouldve offered her. For example, if LV wouldnt 
have offered Mrs G the policy, or it wouldve charged her a higher premium, this would be a 
qualifying misrepresentation. So Ive gone  on to consider whether this was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
what would  LV have  done  differently? 
Our investigator took the view that LV wouldve accepted Mrs Gs doctor  diagnosed the lump  
as a lipoma before the policy began. However, Im not persuaded a diagnosis was reached 
by Mrs Gs doctor before the policy began, or that LV would have accepted it. Ill explain why.
In March 2019  over two years after her appointment with Mrs G in November 2016   the 
doctor told our investigator she diagnosed a lipoma  during the first appointment. However, 
the note on this date only refers to a lump, not a lipoma. When Mrs G saw the surgeon on 
19 December 2016, the notes still say the problem was a lump. The diagnosis of lipoma  
doesnt appear on Mrs Gs appointment notes until 5 May 2017.
I dont think the doctors notes support  a diagnosis of a lipoma being made on 
13 November 2016, before the policy began. I think this is further  supported by the surgeons 
letter of 20 December 2016, in which he arranged an ultrasound as it is not possible to 
ascertain whether this is a lipoma  or an osteoma.  I think Mrs Gs medical records from the 
time show her doctor had diagnosed  only a lump in November 2016,  bearing in mind a 
consultant surgeon  was unable to diagnose the lump without an ultrasound. 
If Mrs G had disclosed her lump,  and LV contacted her doctor,  I think its likely LV would 
either have  been  told the lump had not yet been  diagnosed or the likely diagnosis was a 
lipoma. As per the underwriting evidence Ive seen, I think LV would have asked whether 
Mrs G had been referred to a specialist or been  discharged. Given Mrs G was referred  on to 
a consultant surgeon, I think her doctor would have told LV about this, even if the referral 
was made  purely  for cosmetic reasons. And I dont think  its likely  LV wouldve treated Mrs G 
as having been discharged for the lump knowing a referral  had been  made.  
The underwriting guidance said as Mrs G was referred to a specialist, her application 
wouldve been referred for manual  underwriting.  And LVs underwriters said that without a 
Ref: DRN11995835diagnosis, it would have  followed  the common sense approach of waiting for the lump  to 
have been investigated and a diagnosis made  before  offering cover. Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence to suggest LV would have acted differently  I dont think  theres any reason why 
LV wouldve  decided to offer Mrs G cover on its standard terms instead of waiting for the 
outcome of her referral to a surgeon. 
After her surgeon referred  Mrs G for an ultrasound to confirm his clinical  impression of her 
lump, it was discovered Mrs G had a benign  brain tumour  and aneurism. These conditions 
were discovered before  I think LV would have offered her cover.  And once Mrs Gs 
conditions were known,  the evidence Ive seen shows  LV would have declined to offer her 
any cover  at all.
I realise this will be upsetting for Mrs G, but I dont think LV is obliged  to pay her claim. This 
is because if she had disclosed her lump at application, her policy wouldnt have  been  in 
existence when  her condition was diagnosed. 
I know Mrs G would have preferred LV to amend the terms of her policy instead of cancelling 
it. But LV said it wouldnt  have offered Mrs G the policy  at all had she disclosed her lump. As 
it wouldnt have offered her cover, it was entitled  to cancel her policy. Overall, I dont think  LV 
has treated Mrs G unfairly by treating her misrepresentation  as careless and returning the 
premiums she paid for her policy. Under  CIDRA,  this is the correct remedy  to apply in the 
circumstances of this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 24 July 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1199583