K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
credit card in 1999. Mr M says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr M says he wasnt aware the policy was optional  and that he wasnt given any 
information about it. RBS has provided  a copy of Mr Ms credit  agreement.  On the form it 
has a separate  section where it asks applicants  to tick to select the PPI. On Mr Ms form 
the PPI has been selected and Mr M has signed for it. 
So I think its more likely  Mr M ticked to say he wanted PPI.  
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
Mr M says he would have received sick pay benefits from his employer at the time.  The 
PPI policy  would have  paid out in addition to his employee benefits and this would  have 
also meant he could  have used his employee benefits to pay for other essential costs.  
So it looks  like the policy would have been  useful to him and I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M and his representative have said - including  what  his 
representative has said about there  being other court cases in relation to non-disclosure  of 
commission where consumers have received everything back. So it thinks RBS should 
refund all of the money paid for the PPI plus interest.
Ref: DRN10236502One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case RBS has made  Mr M an offer of compensation  in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr Ms 
representative wants RBS to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr M and his complaint to see if theres 
anything about  his that would mean  the business  should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr M. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Ms complaint  or circumstances that suggest the redress  paid 
by RBS isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think RBSs offer is a fair way to resolve this case. So this point doesnt change 
my decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1023650