K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt  with a 
claim he made under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr S contacted Advantage in September  2018  as his car was damaged  by an unknown  
driver in a supermarket car park. He explained that the supermarket told him only the police 
or Advantage could request CCTV footage. 
A week later he chased Advantage for an update. But Advantage didnt  have a record of his 
claim. It said its out of hours  service  hadnt registered Mr Ss claim. However, it wrote to the 
supermarket that day and requested CCTV footage.
Advantage chased the supermarket  but when it eventually replied in January 2019 it said 
the footage wouldnt be available any more   as it only kept footage for up to 30 days.
Mr S complained that Advantage didnt do enough  to obtain the footage  to identify the third 
party responsible for damaging his car. He wanted Advantage to compensate him by 
covering the excess  he paid for repairs to his car  and to cover his out of pocket expenses.  
Mr S said he made a round trip to the supermarket to get their contact details  and he spent 
money in calls to Advantage.
Advantage apologised to Mr S for failing to register his claim when he contacted  it. But it said 
it wrote  twice to the supermarket  and called it and emailed it. So it didnt believe it was 
responsible for not obtaining  the footage as the supermarket didnt reply in time.  
For the poor service Advantage  provided and calls Mr S said he made at cost to him, it paid 
Mr S a total of £120 compensation. 
Our adjudicator thought overall Advantage had acted reasonably.  Mr S didnt agree. He 
believes Advantage should  have  done  more. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
I agree  that Advantage could have written to the supermarket sooner than it did. However,  it 
wrote to the supermarket seven days after the date of the incident. This was well within the 
timeframe the supermarket later gave to indicate the footage  would have been available.  
And Advantage chased the supermarket by letter again eleven days  later.  
When Advantage called the supermarket in November 2018,  the contact (provided by Mr S) 
asked Advantage  if it had sent a formal  letter.  Advantage said it had written twice  already to 
the store  and the agent asked if he could have  an email  address. 
Ref: DRN17211762The contact  at the supermarket said he couldnt provide an email address but hed look into 
it and somebody would call Advantage back. 
Advantage didnt  get a call back. So it chased  the supermarket  by letter  again.  The 
supermarket replied to the third letter sent by Advantage. Unfortunately, the answer wasnt 
one that helped with Advantages investigation. The supermarket said that  as 30 days had 
passed  CCTV  footage  was no longer available. 
I understand Mr S is disappointed as he believes Advantage should have done more.  But 
from the conversation  it had with the contact  at the supermarket, it seems  Advantage 
followed the correct  process by writing to them - and in good time before the footage  might  
be deleted. I cant  hold Advantage responsible for the supermarket not replying to its 
requests. All three letters were addressed to the same supermarket address. But the 
supermarket only replied to the third letter. 
I cant safely conclude that  if Advantage had written to the supermarket sooner  or if it 
had called more  frequently   that the supermarket would have provided  the footage. And we 
dont know if  had the footage been  available   it would have recorded the incident and 
identified the third party involved.  
For its poor service, Advantage paid Mr S compensation  of £100. And it paid Mr S an 
additional £20 compensation  to cover the cost of calls he said he made.  I think  this was a 
reasonable approach to take to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
So taking everything into account, I think Advantage acted reasonably.  This means  I dont 
think it needs to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1721176