K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that when  he went into National Westminster Bank Plc to make  a cash 
payment into Mrs Ys credit  card account  the bank wrongly treated it as a cash  advance.
background
Mrs Y has been helping her husband bring this complaint and she tells us that on 10 August 
2018 Mr Y went into a branch of NatWest to pay £410 into her credit  card account. But she 
says NatWest treated  it as a cash advance.
NatWest said itd carried out an investigation. But it didnt find any cash advances or bill 
payments processed  through its systems  on the relevant day. There werent any cash  
differences in the tills and there werent any funds outstanding  on any of its suspense 
accounts. But it did have  a record that showed Mrs Ys credit card had been  used to 
withdraw £410 from a cash machine.
The adjudicator could see from the records kept by NatWest that Mrs Ys credit card was 
used to withdraw £410 from a cash machine at the local branch Mr Y had visited on that day. 
And there werent any cash discrepancies  at the tills. So he couldnt say NatWest had done 
anything wrong.
Mr Y wasnt  happy with this. Mrs Y asked if there was any CCTV evidence. But the bank 
said it wasnt available as recordings are not kept indefinitely.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
I know this will be a disappointment  to both Mr and Mrs Y but I dont think  NatWest  made  a 
mistake when Mr Y went to its branch in August 2018. The CCTV evidence  Mrs Y wanted  to 
see wasnt available due to the passage of time.  Banks are not expected to keep these 
recordings indefinitely. But Im satisfied  I have sufficient evidence  to conclude  that NatWest  
hasnt done anything wrong.  
The banks records show there werent any discrepancies in the tills at the branch. And I 
wouldve expected  to see such a discrepancy  if NatWest had recorded a cash  payment as a 
withdrawal. The only record it has of a cash transaction  on Mrs Ys credit card is a 
withdrawal on that day from an automated cash machine. So I dont think  NatWest  has made 
any mistake.  
Ref: DRN18501682my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1850168