K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wouldnt allow  him to re-let his 
property under a consent to lease (CTL) agreement. Mr T would like compensation for 
Halifaxs breach of this agreement.
background
Mr T has a shared equity  property and a residential  mortgage. In 2009  he applied for a CTL 
which was for three years. In 2012 he applied for a further CTL period. On the application  
form it stated that the CTL would be granted for an unlimited period where the loan to value 
(LTV) of the property was up to 75% as it was.
After Mr Ts fixed rate product expired he went onto the variable rate that applied to this CTL 
letting. Mr T then moved back into the property in 2016. In 2018 Mr T was looking to buy 
another property  to live in and let out the property with the CTL. But Halifax told him the CTL 
had been removed when he had moved back in to the property.
Mr T says that this is unfair and Halifax is in breach of its agreement with him which  said that 
the CTL was unlimited. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be 
upheld. His view was that as Mr T had a residential mortgage, the CTL although unlimited 
came to an end with his reoccupation of the property. Mr T disagreed saying in summary 
that his reoccupation shouldnt have cancelled the CTL.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T had a residential mortgage and applied and got a CTL.  A CTL was typically used when 
a borrower wanted  to move for a period to live in another property and asks the lender for 
permission to let the mortgaged property  out which would otherwise be in breach of the 
terms of the mortgage  agreement. Again, typically, the borrower may want  to move for work 
reasons but the expectation  is that the borrower  intends to return  to occupy at which stage 
the borrowers consent to lease expires.  It is not a buy to let situation when the lender 
agrees to the property being  permanently let.
Mr T applied  and got a CTL in 2012  and Halifax sent out an Approval of his Request for 
Tenancy and a Consent to Lease application. I read those  documents as saying that Mr T 
wanted a tenant to occupy his property when he moved elsewhere. That tenancy  could  last 
for an unlimited period  but when that tenancy  ended  if Mr T wanted to let the property again 
he would  have to re-apply by making  a fresh CTL application. Mr T would have to for take 
out a CTL mortgage product during the period of the tenancy and then when Mr T 
reoccupied the property  he could apply for a mortgage product available to existing 
mortgage customers in occupation.
As I understand it Mr T applied for a CTL when he applied  to live for a period with a 
residential spiritual community. Mr T says that he transferred to what I understood to 
effectively a buy to let mortgage.  But I dont believe that fairly represents the situation. The 
documentation Mr M got in 2012 was clearly a consent  to lease application and not a buy to 
let application  and a condition of the application  was that Mr T transferred to a consent to 
Ref: DRN13705662lease product and not a buy to let product.  So, I cant  agree with Mr T that it was reasonable 
for him to believe that this was effectively a buy to let mortgage. 
The consent  to let was only  for this application  which was to allow  Mr T to live elsewhere 
and let out the property whilst  he did. If he reoccupied the property he wouldnt be letting  it 
out and could apply for a mortgage rate that was available for residential  mortgages. But if 
he then wanted  to let it again,  he would have to make a further consent to lease application. 
The period  of the consent to lease was unlimited so that Mr T could let it out for as long as 
he wished during the period of that application.
But if Mr T re-occupied the property the consent to lease expired. This is not specifically 
stated in the documentation  but is a common-sense  reading of it. If the lease ends so does 
the consent to lease.  When Mr T applied for a CTL he got the product he asked for which  
suited him at the time.  Mr Ts circumstances  have changed and he would like to have got a 
buy to let mortgage but that is not what he applied for and isnt what he got.
I dont believe I can fairly  ask Halifax to transfer  Mr T to a buy to let mortgage when it gave 
him what he accepted  at the time which was a consent to lease concession on a residential 
mortgage. I appreciate  that Mr T feels strongly and I have read carefully  the comments  he 
has made about this but for the reasons set out above I cant fairly  uphold this complaint. I 
note that Halifax  accepts that it could have dealt with Mr Ts queries more  effectively and 
clearly and believe that the payment  of £200  is appropriate.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1370566