K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant)  took a payment  from his account 
after they told him that theyd put his account on hold for 30 days. Mr H says that Avant  then 
didnt take any further payments after that hold had expired. Mr H also says that Avant did 
not check to see whether  he could afford  to make further payments or explore his 
employment position after he told them hed lost his job.
background
Mr H took out a loan with Avant. He was made unemployed at the end of October 2018, 
before the loan came to an end. He telephoned  Avant on 5 December to tell them  about his 
change in circumstances and the fact that he couldnt pay his direct debit. Because  of this, 
Avant arranged for his account to be placed on hold for 30 days, so no interest  or penalties 
would be charged  over that period.
Avant says that during the call, their advisor told Mr H that after 30 days this arrangement  
would end automatically. Avant says they also told him that he would subsequently need  to 
update them on any change in his circumstances so they could review  the position  and 
decide how to take things  forward  together.
Avant says that they tried to contact Mr H after the 30-day hold ended, by telephone, email 
and SMS  message but couldnt reach  him.
Avant says that because  they had not been updated  on Mr Hs circumstances, they were  
unable to go back to taking automatic payments from his account to reduce his loan as they 
did not have his agreement. Because of this, and because  the 30-day hold period had 
expired, Mr Hs account had fees and penalties applied to it.  
Mr H says that Avant made no attempt to contact him after the initial 30-day hold expired 
and that he didnt contact Avant until March 2019.
He also says that Avant made no attempt to assess his affordability during the call of 
5 December or any subsequent calls.
Mr H wasnt happy with Avant for its actions or about the fees and penalties  he was charged 
despite having explained his circumstances. So he brought his complaint  to us. An 
investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and decided that Avant  hadnt  done anything 
wrong. Avant accepted the investigators opinion. But because Mr H didnt agree, the 
complaint has now been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  (Another issue concerning the potential 
mis-selling of Mr Hs loan in the first place is being  investigated as a separate complaint.)
Mr Hs direct debit  payment due 10 December  2018
Avants written record of the telephone  call of 5 December  states  that the adviser  asked 
Mr H to cancel his direct debit with his bank. Having also listened to the telephone call 
Ref: DRN13367062between Mr H and Avant  on 5 December 2018,  Ive decided to not uphold this aspect of the 
complaint, for the same reasons as the investigator.
Avants advisor told Mr H that they couldnt  be sure whether his direct debt payment due in 
December would be taken  or not. She told Mr H that, to be on the safe side,  he should 
contact his bank  and cancel the direct debit himself  as it could  always be reinstated  in the 
future. Mr H subsequently told our investigator that he had not done this. The direct debit 
ended up being  paid.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont think that Avant has done anything  wrong  here as 
they advised Mr H to cancel the direct debit himself.  This would have ensured the payment 
didnt go through  but Mr H did not do this. So I agree with the investigators findings  here.
30-day hold
Avants written record of the telephone  call of 5 December  states  that Mr Hs account would 
be placed on a 30-day  hold from that date.  It also records that a debt management plan had 
been created  which would freeze any interest  and charges on Mr Hs loan.
Having listened  to this call, I can confirm  that Avants adviser  told Mr H that they would place 
his account on hold. She told him this would  freeze  any interest payments and charges for 
30 days from the date of the call. The adviser  also told Mr H that Avant  would opt him out of 
all his card payments and direct debit payments.
The adviser also told Mr H that they could review  his circumstances again after the 30-day  
hold had ended. Mr H specifically asked for, and received, clarification on this point. The 
adviser told Mr H that if his circumstances had not changed then they could agree to extend 
the period of the hold.  If Mr Hs circumstances had changed then he and Avant could agree 
a payment plan between  them. The adviser  made  clear that Mr H would need to contact 
Avant after 30 days when  the hold had expired,  in order  to review the position.
The adviser told Mr H that she would also opt him out of receiving all communications from 
Avant for the period  of the hold but if they hadnt  heard  from him after 30 days  then they 
would begin contacting him again.  At the end of the call, Mr H told the adviser that he would 
keep Avant  updated  about his circumstances after the 30-day hold period had ended.
Avant has provided a communications log which  evidences its attempts to contact Mr H 
repeatedly between December 2018 and March 2019. Besides twelve emailed courtesy 
reminders and four texted courtesy  reminders,  the log records 35 attempts to speak with 
Mr H using his mobile  phone number (as well as two attempts to contact him by the landline  
at his old employers) between 18 January  when  Avant began attempts to get back  in touch 
with Mr H - and 4 March 2019.  Given the extent of this log, and the fact that the adviser had 
previously told Mr H that they would begin  contacting him again  after the period of the 
communications hold had expired, this makes me think  that it is more  likely than not that 
Avant was making  multiple attempts to contact  Mr H after the 30-day hold period had expired  
to discuss his financial circumstances. In contrast, I have seen no evidence to suggest that 
Mr H tried to contact  Avant until 4 March  when he called them from the mobile  number they 
had been using to try to contact him. He hasnt told us that he tried contacting Avant earlier.  
Mr H then submitted his complaint to Avant on 12 March.
A charge of £12 applied to Mr Hs account in December 2018  related to the return of his last 
monthly debit payment  at the end of November. This was during  the period prior to the 
Ref: DRN13367063telephone call of 5 December, and therefore prior to the introduction of the 30-day hold. 
Following the call when  Mr H explained his financial position, this charge was returned by 
Avant on 5 December.  Given that this charge related to before the telephone  conversation,  
and therefore  prior to the freeze on payments and charges, I think  was a fair and reasonable 
action by Avant in the circumstances.
The late fee applied  on 30 January  related to the period after the 30-day hold had ended so 
after the freeze on interest and charges had expired. Therefore I dont think it was unfair. As 
Mr H had not contacted Avant to update them on his circumstances and discuss future 
arrangements, they had no knowledge  of his situation so were unable  to restart automatic 
payments. At the same time, because the hold had ended, and because Mr H had not 
agreed either new payment arrangements or an extension of the freeze, interest and 
charges  including the fee on 30 January  could  begin to be applied again.  Because  this 
situation was the result of Mr H not keeping in touch, I dont think Avant has done anything 
wrong.
Avant not taking payments after expiry of 30-day hold
In the telephone call of 5 December, Avants  adviser  told Mr H that they would opt him out of 
both card payments  and direct debit payments. Mr H had been very clear  that he had been 
made unemployed and was unable to make the payments on his loan and, having listened to 
the call, I can confirm that Avants  adviser was clear that they couldnt  reinstate these 
payments without speaking to Mr H again  first.
So, I need to decide whether Avant acted fairly  and reasonably under all the circumstances. 
Mr H was told that a review of his account would be carried out after the 30-day hold had 
ended. He told the adviser that he would keep Avant updated  on his circumstances in order  
to review the situation but he did not do this. Mr H feels that Avant had caused him a great 
deal of frustration,  anxiety and stress at an already difficult  time but I think  he ought to have 
realised that Avant could  not take any further automatic payments without speaking to him 
and getting his agreement. This is because of the conversation  he had with their adviser  and 
the emphasis  on him getting back in touch after the first 30-day hold had ended. He should 
have contacted Avant himself after the 30-day hold, as he had said he would.  So I agree 
with the investigators  findings here too.
I also think that Mr Hs point about  Avant telling him that they couldnt necessarily stop his 
December automatic payment but then subsequently not taking  a payment in March  is a 
misunderstanding on his part, not a contradiction. The December payment had already been 
authorised by a direct  debit with his own bank  before his account had been  put on hold. After 
Mr Hs account had been put on hold then Avant  was able to stop the March payment 
because Mr H had been opted out of automatic payments, as Avant explained in an email  of 
4 April. It was only after he had emailed to opt back in that Mr Hs automatic payments were 
re-scheduled.
Did Avant  consider Mr Hs affordability and circumstances?
Mr H says that when he informed Avant in the telephone call of 5 December that he had 
become unemployed and had no income, Avant  didnt  check to see whether he could afford  
to make further payments or explore  his employment position  either  then or at any time 
subsequently.
Ref: DRN13367064Having listened  to the call, I can confirm that Avants adviser asked after Mr Hs welfare  and 
briefly discussed his interview  situation and job prospects.  After  Mr H said he had no income 
coming in at all, the adviser  asked  him whether he was up to date with his priority bills. Mr H 
confirmed he was, as these were being  covered by his partner. The adviser went  on to ask 
whether she could provide details of debt advice services.  Mr H declined, saying he was 
already aware  of these. The adviser  immediately  went on to propose a 30-day hold on 
Mr Hs account with the intention of reviewing  his circumstances after that period. She also 
said that when  Mr H started a new job, they could set up a payment plan then.
When customers contact a business  to let it know theyre  struggling  financially, the business  
should do what it can to help. While there  are no particular  rules to follow in every  case,  a 
business should try to understand  a customer's difficulties. The first thing wed expect is for a 
business to ask about the customers situation and discuss what  help is appropriate.  The 
business will often ask the customer about their income and outgoings, especially their most 
important, or priority, bills. This helps  the business  understand  what  the customer can afford. 
The business should also direct the customer towards free debt advice services.
I think that the extent  and scope of this conversation was such  that Avants  actions in trying 
to assess Mr Hs affordability  and circumstances were fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1336706