K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that NRAM Limited  mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy in 2002 in connection  with their joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M complained to this Service. They said NRAM mis-sold them a PPI policy when 
they applied for a mortgage. No-one advised  them about PPI or discussed PPI with them;  
and they said it was added to their mortgage account without their knowledge. 
NRAM said it did not sell the PPI or the mortgage to Mr and Mrs M. It said the PPI was sold 
by an independent financial adviser  (Mr J) from a company Ill call Company Y which was 
owned by Company A at the time. So NRAM concluded  it did not have to deal with the PPI 
mis-sale complaint.
Company Y said it did not sell the PPI to Mr and Mrs M through Mr Js actions. It added it 
was unlikely it would have sold the PPI policy they bought because it wasnt Company  As 
product; and also that it had no record of getting  any commission  for this PPI sale. 
Our adjudicator thought NRAM probably  was responsible for looking at this complaint. 
NRAM disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  where I explained why I thought  NRAM 
probably was not responsible for looking at this complaint. We sent a copy  of my provisional 
decision to both parties and invited them to comment. Neither party had anything further to 
add. As I do not have  any new evidence to consider, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
The first thing I need to decide is whether NRAM is responsible for the sale of the policy.  If I 
decide it is, then this Service can decide whether the sale happened as it should have done. 
In this case, I am going to say that NRAM was probably not responsible  for the PPI sale. So 
I will also be saying  that as NRAM did nothing  wrong during  the PPI sale, I cannot uphold  
the PPI mis-sale complaint against  it. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M so I will 
explain why.
what did NRAM plc say about the PPI sale?
NRAM did not sell the PPI to Mr and Mrs M in 2002;
PPI was sold by an independent financial  adviser called Mr J  Mr and Mrs M agree 
they said the PPI was sold during  a meeting  when they also bought the mortgage  but 
they also say the PPI was added without their knowledge;
an intermediary called Mr J from Company Y sold the PPI;
Section 13 which is the PPI application  in the mortgage application form is missing which  
means it was completed  by Company  Y and sent direct to the insurer;
Ref: DRN10178932the PPI application form was filled in and sent to the insurer  with the direct debit 
mandate before NRAM received it  these forms would have been filled in by Mr and 
Mrs M at their meeting  with Mr J;
if NRAM had sold it, it would not have used  section 13 of the mortgage application  
NRAM would  have  used a separate application form or a telephone call;
there was no telephone call note showing any later contact with Mr and Mrs M to sell 
PPI;
the mortgage application form was dated 18 September 2002;
NRAM received the mortgage application  on 19 September 2002; 
it was sent to them  by Mr J;
there was no time for NRAM  to sell PPI on the same day the mortgage application 
was received;
the PPI policy started on 28 November 2002  the first six months of the policy  were 
free of charge;
it had no evidence  of paying a commission  for the PPI sale;
Mr J did not sell the mortgage to Mr and Mrs M  he introduced  them to NRAM; 
NRAM also added  the following point: the PPI application was completed  before  it 
was received by NRAM but the PPI application was forwarded on by Company N not 
the Independent  Financial  Adviser, Mr J.
what did Company  Y say about the sale?
At the time of the sale, Company Y was owned by Company A, so Company A has been 
answering questions  about this sale;
it did not sell the PPI;
Mr and Mrs M bought an insurance  policy, which  was not Company As policy;
as Company  Y was owned  by Company A, it would have sold Company As policies 
exclusively at the time of this sale  so it would not have sold a policy  from another  
company;
there was no reason at that time for Company Y to be selling financial products which  
were not Company  As products;
it had no record of receiving any commission for this PPI sale;
Mr J did advise Mr and Mrs M about  taking PPI in 2002  but none  was sold according  to 
the undated case submission report;
Mr J introduced Mr and Mrs M to NRAM
what did the consumers  say about  the sale?
They said they did not speak to anyone or receive any advice  about  PPI; 
they think Company  Y might  have been  involved in the sale;
they said they bought the PPI during a meeting;
but they also said PPI was added without their knowledge.
I have looked  very carefully at the evidence raised  by all parties  and I am going to say that 
NRAM probably did not sell the PPI policy  and so it does not need to answer  
Mr and Mrs Ms mis-sale complaint. 
I say this because   although  I can see from the mortgage application form that it was 
completed by the independent financial adviser from Company Y  the case submission 
report shows that he did not submit the PPI application to NRAM. So it does not look like 
Ref: DRN10178933NRAM dealt with or processed  the PPI application  at the time of processing the mortgage 
application  and so in effect, it did not seem  to have anything  to do with the sale process. 
I note that NRAM said Mr J would have sent the PPI application part of the form straight  to 
the insurance company. We asked the insurance company about this but it did not have  any 
record of who sent the PPI application form, so I cannot put great weight on this evidence 
from NRAM.
I also noted NRAM had no record of paying  any commission  to Company Y for the PPI sale 
 this would  follow NRAMs argument  that it did not ask Company Y to sell this particular PPI 
policy. This strongly suggests  that someone  else sold the PPI independently  to Mr and Mrs 
M at the time of the mortgage sale. The first six months were free of charge, so I am not 
surprised that Mr and Mrs M had probably  forgotten PPI had been  added to their mortgage 
account or thought it had been added without their knowledge when they eventually  started  
paying for it six months later.
I also noted that it would have been  unlikely for Company Y to be selling policies from another 
insurance company  at a time when it would have exclusively sold Company As policies. 
Taking everything into account,  I am going to say that Northern  Rock  probably did not sell the 
PPI policy  in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that NRAM Limited is not responsible for selling the PPI and I do not 
uphold the mis-sale complaint against  NRAM Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1017893