K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible to give him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr M borrowed three times from Uncle Buck between October and November 2014,  as 
follows:
loan number date taken amount borrowed date repaid
1 10 October 2014 £200 31 October 2014
2 14 November 2014 £200 28 November 2014
3 28 November 2014 £350 Debt sold
Mr M says that Uncle Buck was irresponsible to give him the loans. He doesnt  think  it 
carried out proper  checks. If it had done so, he says it would have seen from his credit  file 
that he had other debts  and the loans  werent affordable. 
Uncle Buck  says that, before  it lent to Mr M, it asked him about his monthly income and 
expenditure and carried  out a credit check that confirmed the monthly  income figure 
provided was accurate.  This showed that Mr M had enough disposable income  to meet  the 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Given  the loan amounts and 
what was apparent about Mr Ms financial circumstances at the time, she felt that Uncle 
Buck had carried out enough checks and there wasnt anything  to show Mr M was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr M thought that Uncle Buck should have done  more checks  regarding  affordability for the 
second and third loans, especially as they were both taken within  the same month.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Uncle Buck on 28 May 2019. I summarise  my findings:
Uncle Buck was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether 
Mr M could afford  to pay back each loan without it adversely impacting on his financial 
situation. It had to gather enough  information  so that it could make an informed decision 
on the lending.  
Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. 
Being  sustainable means without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should 
be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting  other  reasonable commitments; as 
well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. It follows  that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make 
Ref: DRN18333042their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments  
without borrowing further.
Based  on the information Mr M had provided for loans one and two, his disposable 
income seemed  sufficient  for him to be able to comfortably meet the loan repayments.  
So given  Mr Ms repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I  think the checks  Uncle  Buck carried  out were 
proportionate.
I didnt think the checks  that Uncle Buck carried out for loan three  went far enough. Mr M 
asked to borrow for the third time on the same day that he repaid loan two and the 
amount he asked for had increased. Given he already had a default registered,  I think  
Uncle Buck should not only have asked about  Mr Ms normal living  expenses  and regular 
financial commitments  but also whether he had any other short term lending.
Uncle Buck told us that its searches  allowed it to assess  closed and active loans and 
whether there are any other  loans,  including short term ones, that may only just have 
been approved  and it considers this check to be a vital part of its affordability checks. I 
couldnt see how Uncle Buck had interpreted  the information  it gathered.  Its records  
showed that Mr Ms expenditure remained the same  as when he applied  for the previous 
two loans. 
I found that when  Mr M applied  for the third loan he had other short term lending  
commitments with several loan providers  totalling more than £800.
I thought this should have given Uncle Buck a clear indication that Mr M was facing 
significant problems  managing his money. And so I considered Uncle  Buck should have 
concluded it was likely  that Mr M was borrowing to fill the hole that repaying previous 
loans was leaving in his finances.  
Subject to any further representations from Mr M or Uncle Buck, my provisional  decision was 
that I thought it was wrong for Uncle Buck to give loan three to Mr M.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.
Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary,  that Mr M had declared  that he had enough 
disposable income to be able to meet the repayments and it was entitled  to rely on the 
information he gave  to it. It also suggested  that Mr M had signed  to say that the information 
he had given was accurate.  If he didnt think he could afford the repayments  he didnt need 
to go ahead with the loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Uncle Buck  has suggested  that Mr M declared his net monthly income  as £3,800,  with take 
home pay as £1,900  and a further £1,900  of other  income. It has recorded his declared 
monthly expenditure as £950  so it considered  he had disposable  income of £2,850  to meet  
the loan repayment. On this basis, it concluded the loan was affordable to him. Further,  Mr M 
had originally requested  a loan of £700  but it only agreed to provide £350.
Ref: DRN18333043As part of Uncle  Bucks assessment of applications it has said that it uses  an automated 
system of scorecards and credit  scoring  to help it make informed and fair lending decision.  
The model identifies customers who will be able to pay on time, when combined with the 
affordability risk assessments. If there  are no apparent discrepancies  in the information 
provided, and it appears that a loan can be repaid in a sustainable fashion, then Uncle Buck  
says that it wont ask for any further  information.
Im not persuaded that Uncle Bucks  checks were proportionate. The amount and extent  of 
the checks required and the degree of information a lender will need to gather in order  to 
make an informed decision will depend  on the circumstances  of each individual  loan. An 
assessment of affordability  is a borrower rather  than lender focused test.
When Mr M asked  to borrow  for the third time he did so on the same day that he repaid loan 
two. He was also borrowing  from a number of other short term lenders. I consider that Uncle 
Buck ought  fairly and reasonably to have been alert to the possibility Mr M mightve  been  
seeking further funds to cover the hole left in his finances by the repayment of the previous 
loan. 
If Uncle Buck had probed further and asked  some very specific  questions about his financial 
situation I think that Uncle Buck would have seen that Mr M wasnt in receipt of £3,800 each 
month and his actual  income was around the £1,900 that he declared as take home pay. 
The amount  he declared as other  income was the same as his take home pay, so I think  it 
more likely than not that this was his total income,  and not additional income. If it had carried  
out proportionate checks, Uncle  Buck would have seen this. It might also have  seen that 
Mr M had other short term lending commitments  with several  loan providers totalling more  
than £800. With this information Uncle Buck should have been concerned about whether 
Mr M was reliant on short term lending to get by each month and whether he was facing 
significant problems  managing his money. So I dont think  Uncle  Buck should have given this 
loan to Mr M.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend to Mr M for the loan he took on 28 
November 2014,  so it should:
refund  any interest and charges  applied to the loan either  to the debt collection agency  
or to Mr M to make  the payment himself
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*  and pay this to Mr M.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ms credit file in relation to this loan.
If Mr M has already repaid more than the amount he originally borrowed Uncle  Buck should 
clear any outstanding balance with the third party. It should also refund any extra  Mr M has 
repaid over and above the amount he originally borrowed) to Mr M and add 8% simple 
interest from the date the extra amount was paid to the date of settlement. It should  remove  
any adverse information  recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan. Alternatively,  
Uncle Buck  may wish to buy back the loan before it implements the settlement.
If an outstanding  balance remains, or one will remain, after any interest and charges have 
been removed  then, for the avoidance  of doubt,  Uncle Buck  doesnt  need to do anything 
about any adverse  information recorded  on her credit  file.
Ref: DRN18333044*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to 
put matters right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1833304