K821x#15complaint
Ms O and Mr R complain  about a remortgage application they made  through 
London and Country Mortgages  Ltd (L&C)  in June 2018. Theyre  unhappy with the level of 
service they received, and the poor communication.
background
I wont go into the full timeline of this complaint as its lengthy, and neither side has disputed 
it. Suffice  to say there  were periods when matters became confused  and further information 
was requested by the mortgage  lender.
The original  application  was submitted on 18 June, and on 30 July the lender cancelled it as 
it had been open for so long and there  was still information outstanding. Despite appeals,  
that decision stood  and so a new application  was submitted on 16 August, but the interest  
rate had increased by that time. An offer was issued on 29 August and the remortgage 
completed on 12 October.
Ms O and Mr R complained to L&C about the service theyd received. L&C admitted thered 
been some  confusion and offered £50 compensation. Unhappy with that Ms O and Mr R 
referred their complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld; he said L&C hadnt provided the 
level of service that would  be expected and thought compensation of £150 was more  
appropriate. L&C didnt agree and so its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that there were service failures  with this remortgage. Thats  not to say this 
was intentional,  Im satisfied it was just an unfortunate sequence of events that built up, but 
that doesnt mean they should  be ignored.  If there was just one failure  then Im sure Ms O 
and Mr R would have  overlooked that, but instead  there were  multiple  failures and confusion 
that added  up. 
L&C has said the case handlers work was being  covered whilst she was off, but that no-one 
had access to her emails. Thats unfortunate as Ms O and Mr R had no reason to believe the 
information they sent through to the case handlers email wouldnt be picked up. L&C has 
admitted that no out of office  auto-response was set-up. This meant the information wasnt 
acted on as quickly as it should have been, and a chase up was sent by L&C for information 
Ms O and Mr R had already submitted.
There was then confusion  about  what the lender  wanted in respect of the credit  
commitments. L&C requested information from Ms O and Mr R on 12 July, but it took until 
21 July for Ms O and Mr R to get clarity on what exactly the problem was and what was 
needed. In that time theyd phoned  and emailed, and on one occasion got a response  that 
was incorrect. It was only when the case handler returned to the office that it was resolved.
Once the application was restarted in August further  information was requested, and Ms O 
and Mr R expressed their frustration at that. The case handler uploaded all the previous 
Ref: DRN16405802documents and asked  for some  up to date bank statements  and payslips. Ms O and Mr R 
emailed the information to the case handler,  but it was requested  again  by one of the case  
handlers colleagues 
Whilst the delays  werent  only the fault of L&C,  Im satisfied much of the delays and 
confusion were caused by L&C. Having considered everything Im satisfied the service 
provided by L&C fell below what Id expect and I award Ms O and Mr R £150 in 
compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order London and Country Mortgages Ltd 
to pay £150 to Ms O and Mr R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 January  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1640580