K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller  
in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs S took out a store card in April 1997,  in the store. At the same time PPI was added  to 
her account.
Mrs S said she was working less than 16 hours  per week when the cover was added.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Mrs Ss 
part time hours meant she wouldnt have been able to claim on the main  benefits of the 
policy. Our adjudicator  thought it unlikely that Mrs S wouldve  taken out the cover had she 
known this.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
To be eligible for the cover,  Mrs S needed to be working a minimum of 16 hours per week.  I 
have no reason to think Mrs S wasnt working  for less than 16 hours per week, as she says. 
So, I cant  say that she was eligible for the policy. I dont think Mrs S wouldve taken the PPI 
had this been clearly  explained to her. So I think Mrs S has lost out because of what  FICL  
did wrong and it should  put things right.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs S in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owed when she closed this 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN12538672If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest (at 8% a year)  on the difference  between what  Mrs S 
would have owed when  she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets 
the refund.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs S would  have owed each month without  PPI  
Mrs S paid more than enough  to clear her balance,  FICL should  also pay simple interest 
(at 8% a year) on the extra Mrs S paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs S would have owed FICL something  on her store  card.
D.FICL should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs S that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax FICL  have taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Financial Insurance  Company Limited  to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1253867