K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that his loan from Aprin Ltd (trading as cashasap.co.uk) was unaffordable.
background
Mr L borrowed £300 from CashASAP on 24 July 2016 which was repaid on 20 August 2016.  
He says if CashASAP had done better  checks it would have realised he couldnt afford  the 
repayments. Mr L says he already had a significant amount of credit  and an extreme  
gambling addiction  when he applied for the loan.
CashASAP says it asked Mr L about his income and expenditure and this showed he had 
disposable income of £765 and could afford the repayments. It also checked Mr Ls credit  file 
and says he repaid  the loan early and made  a subsequent application which  was declined.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She found that Mr Ls credit 
report showed he already had multiple outstanding short-term  loans  and was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably  repay the CashASAP  loan. She said interest and charges on the loans 
should be refunded (plus  8% statutory interest) and that any associated negative information  
should be removed  from Mr Ls credit file.
CashASAP responded to say, in summary,  that credit  file data is not up to date and Mr L 
declared a figure for credit repayments which should have reflected his latest circumstances. 
It adds that there are numerous difficulties with interpreting  the data within the credit  file and 
it does not consider it proportionate to analyse  such data for a relatively small loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CashASAP was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make sure Mr L 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr L was borrowing,  and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks CashASAP had to do.
When Mr L applied for the loan,  CashASAP asked him about his income  and expenditure. 
Mr L said his income  was £1,615, with total expenditure of £850. Based on these checks 
alone, I can understand why the loan appeared affordable to Mr L. But CashASAP also 
received a copy of Mr Ls credit file and a review  of that shows  the following:
Four outstanding instalment loans
oWith a total balance of almost  £1,600
oWith repayment periods between one month  and six months
oShowing regular  monthly repayments totalling  over £1,200
Six further outstanding unsecured loans
oTwo 5-year  loans with monthly  repayments totalling £242
oOne 2-year loan with monthly repayments  of £107
oOne 12-month loan with monthly repayments of £299
oOne 6-month  loan with monthly  repayments of £159
oOne 4-month  loan with monthly  repayments of £105
Ref: DRN16076542I acknowledge that CashASAP says a credit file is only a snapshot of a consumers financial 
circumstances and that it wont necessarily provide the most up-to-date information. I also 
accept that Mr L provided a figure  to CashASAP  for his credit commitments  which  should  
have been a reflection of his latest circumstances. But, given that Mr Ls figure for credit 
commitments was £120, I consider CashASAP  should have  taken all the available  
information into account before relying on this.
I accept the information in the credit file may not have  been  completely up-to-date  and 
showed some questionable data for some of the loans, but given the information that was 
available to CashASAP at the time,  Im satisfied the loan was not affordable  to Mr L. So I 
dont consider CashASAP acted reasonably when it approved Mr Ls loan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Apfin Ltd (trading as cashasap.co.uk) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr L paid on the loan;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about the loan from Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CashASAP to take off tax from this interest. CashASAP 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1607654