K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited turned down his 
claim for benefit under his disability income  benefit.  
background
Mr Y has disability  income benefit, the aim of which is to pay an income after a waiting 
period of 52 weeks, if he cant work because of illness or injury.  Mr Y also has premium  
payment benefit  (PPB). This covers the cost of the policy premium, after a waiting period of 
13 weeks, if he cant work because of illness or injury. 
In September  2016, Mr Y stopped working because of stress and anxiety. In January 2018,  
he submitted claims for disability income  benefit  and PPB. After assessing  the claims,  Royal  
London thought Mr Ys symptoms of stress were related to his specific  employer. It therefore 
turned down the claims as it thought Mr Y was still able to carry out his occupation 
elsewhere. Unhappy  with this, Mr Y brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She accepted  that Mr Y was 
experiencing symptoms,  but she didnt think hed shown these prevented  him from working 
in his occupation. She therefore thought it had been  reasonable for Royal London to turn 
down the claims.  
Mr Y didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matter has been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Disability benefit claim
The policy says a claim for disability benefit will be payable, after a waiting period of 52 
weeks, if Mr Y is unable  to carry out the material and substantial duties of his own 
occupation because  of illness or injury.  
The policy explains  that own occupation means:
the trade, profession or type of work  the life assured does for profit or pay. It is not a specific 
job with any particular employer and is irrespective of location  and availability.
Ive therefore  considered  the available medical evidence  in the relevant 52-week waiting 
period. 
I see that Mr Ys GP signed him off work with a stress related problem. And when he first 
stopped work, his GP referred him for counselling. 
Mr Y has confirmed  that he had counselling/therapy,  however he hasnt provided any reports  
from his treating counsellor/therapist, so I havent  been able to take this into account.  
Ref: DRN16667332In 2017, Mr Y was assessed by his employers  occupational health physician (Dr S) on at 
least two occasions.  I understand one assessment took place in May, and the other in 
October. Following the October consultation, Dr S said Mr Y had confirmed that his mental 
well-being had improved in the absence of communication  from his employer (though recent 
communication from his employer had resulted in increased symptoms  of generalised 
anxiety). Dr S thought  that any attempt by Mr Y to return  to work with his previous employer 
would likely  result in a decrease in his mental well-being. 
In March 2018, the GP provided some further information. Although this was provided after 
the 52-week waiting period had ended,  Ive still taken  it into account. 
The GP said Mr Y was suffering with a stress-related work  problem.  Royal London asked if 
Mr Y was totally  unable to follow his occupation, and the date he became incapacitated, and 
the GP said not known.  The GP confirmed thered been an improvement in Mr Ys condition 
since the onset  of his incapacity. However, he didnt know what  Mr Ys limitations and 
restrictions were. He said Mr Y didnt require future treatment, and no other treatment or 
investigations had been suggested.  And the GP didnt know  when Mr Y would be likely to be 
fit to return to work. 
Royal London also asked  the GP:
Clinically, if your patient still does not currently have the functional ability to carry out their 
own occupation, do you consider they have the ability  to do an alternative job, which is 
similar in nature?
The GP answered yes to this question.
Overall, Im inclined to agree with Royal London  that Mr Y hasnt shown that he meets  the 
policy requirements for a claim  to be paid. Ill explain why. 
Mr Y has remained under  the care of his GP since stopping work,  but the information from 
his GP isnt particularly detailed, and doesnt  explain what  his symptoms  are or how these 
affect him. And since  his GP thought  he had the ability to do an alternative  job which was 
similar in nature to his own, its not clear why Mr Y therefore couldnt work in his own 
occupation with another  employer. 
Mr Y wasnt  prescribed any medication to treat his symptoms and didnt receive  any referrals 
from his GP to specialists.  Although he was initially referred for counselling when  he first 
stopped work, Mr Y hasnt provided  any evidence relating to this.
I accept that the evidence  from Dr S supports  that Mr Ys mental wellbeing  would be affected 
if he were to return to work  with his previous employer. However, crucially, Dr S doesnt 
comment on Mr Ys ability to carry out his occupation elsewhere.
Mr Y says he has a generalised anxiety disorder with significant periodic bouts of 
depression. However,  the medical evidence  Ive seen from his GP is that he was 
experiencing work-related  stress. Thats not to say that work-related stress cant  develop  into 
a mental illness  of such significance that it prevents someone from performing their 
occupation for any employer, but I dont think theres sufficient evidence of that here.
Ref: DRN16667333When Mr Y submitted his claim  form, I note he was asked what parts  of his job he could 
carry out. He said None. My illness inhibits contact with, and attendance at, my current  
employer.
I appreciate Mr Y felt unable to work for his previous employer. However, for me to find that 
Mr Y was medically prevented from doing his own occupation with another employer, Id 
expect to see stronger  evidence of the impact Mr Ys illness has had on him, and why this 
prevents him from working in his occupation  elsewhere.
On balance, I dont  think Mr Y has shown that his symptoms prevented  him from working  for 
another employer.  Consequently, I think it was fair for Royal  London to decline Mr Ys claim 
on the basis of the available  evidence.  
PPB claim
The policy explains  a claim for PPB will be payable, after a waiting period of 13 weeks, if Mr 
Y is unable  to carry out the material and substantial duties of his own occupation because  of 
illness or injury. Again,  own occupation  means the work the life assured does for profit or 
pay, and isnt a specific  job with any particular  employer.
The medical information for the first 13 weeks is very limited.  Although  Mr Ys GP had signed  
him off work with stress,  I dont think this alone  shows that he was incapacitated  to such an 
extent that he couldnt  carry out his occupation  for another employer. Im therefore satisfied it 
was reasonable  for Royal London to turn down  this claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1666733