K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a claim for medical 
expenses Mr Y made. 
background
Mr and Mrs Y have  travel insurance provided by Axa through a packaged bank  account.  In 
December 2017  Mr Y booked an overseas holiday and travelled the following month.  In 
February while he was away  he attended hospital as hed been  experiencing back pain. The 
hospital notes  reference shoulder  muscle pain and anti-inflammatory medication was 
prescribed. Mr Y visited a different hospital  five days later as he was still in pain. It 
diagnosed back  pain on the left side without any associated  trauma.  Further medication was 
prescribed. 
Mr Y made a claim for to Axa for the costs  hed incurred. It reviewed his past medical history 
and noted in July 2017 Mr Y had visited his GP because he had pain and stiffness  in his 
shoulder. This was a recurrence  of symptoms hed previously experienced and anti-
inflammatory medication was prescribed.   
Axa turned down Mr Ys claim  because  it thought  the problem hed experienced while  
abroad was related to the condition hed been  treated  for in July 2017.And his policy  
excluded cover for conditions for which treatment had been received in the six months prior 
to booking a trip. It accepted there had been issues with aspects of the service it provided 
after Mr Y made his claim for which it offered to pay £250. 
Our investigator accepted the condition  Mr Y had been treated for prior to his trip and 
subsequent shoulder pain were  in the same part of his body. But she didnt think Axa had 
shown they were otherwise linked. So she thought his claim should be paid. 
Mr Y accepted her findings but Axa didnt  agree.  It said the policy  didnt cover pre-existing 
medical conditions.  And in this case it believed the medical evidence showed  the conditions  
were linked. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month as I didnt agree the claim should 
be paid. I said:
Mr Ys policy  says it wont pay claims arising  directly or indirectly from any medical condition 
you have, or have had ..within the six months  prior to opening your Added Value Account  
or within the six months prior to booking any trip, whichever is later,  unless you have  
contacted us and we have  agreed  in writing to cover you.  
In this case its not in dispute Mr Y had received treatment for a shoulder condition in the six 
months prior to booking  his trip and he didnt contact Axa about this. So if the claim he 
subsequently made  arose directly or indirectly from this condition  this isnt something  his 
policy would cover. 
Mr Y thinks  the problem he had on holiday was unrelated and might have been caused  when  
he stumbled and fell into a lamp post. However,  I dont think thats supported  by the medical 
reports from the hospitals he visited. These dont make any reference to Mr Y having  fallen 
and the notes from the second hospital say back pain without previous direct  trauma. I 
appreciate Mr Y didnt  remember until later (when  a friend  reminded  him) that hed hit the 
Ref: DRN14724102lamppost but the physical examination carried out at the second  hospital also says No 
trauma marks.
I recognise neither  hospital specifically diagnosed the condition  Mr Y had previously suffered 
from. And Mr Y says if it had been the same condition steroid medication would have been 
prescribed which didnt happen.  I understand that point. But the policy doesnt say he has to 
have been suffering from the same condition  for a claim to be excluded; it says claims wont  
be paid where  they arise  directly or indirectly  from a previous condition. 
In this case both hospitals  identified that Mr Y was suffering from shoulder pain in the same 
area where  hed previously suffered from a recurring  condition.  Theres nothing  in the notes 
(for example a specific diagnosis of a different condition) to show there wasnt a link with the 
previous condition. And there isnt any clear  evidence  to show an alternative cause for the 
problem Mr Y experienced  while on holiday. 
Given that I think it was reasonable for Axa to conclude  there  was at least  an indirect link 
between the problem Mr Y suffered from on holiday and his previously diagnosed condition. 
As a result I dont think it was unfair  of it to turn down the claim he made.  And while I agree 
there were problems with the customer service it provided as part of this process  I think  the 
£250 Axa has already agreed  to pay does enough to recognise the impact on Mr Y of this. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Axa agreed with what Id said. Mr Y didnt  agree.  In summary he said the condition he was 
diagnosed with while on holiday was entirely  separate and unrelated from his pre-existing 
condition. He also said the £250 Axa had paid for poor customer  service was unrelated to 
the dispute about the claim dispute. So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the payment Axa made  was solely for poor customer service and was 
unrelated to the decision on this claim.  I also recognise that Mr Y believes the condition he 
was diagnosed with on holiday as being unrelated to his pre-existing  condition. 
But as I said in my provisional decision Ive looked  at the medical  reports from the two 
hospitals he attended and neither of them have a specific diagnosis  of a different condition.  
They simply refer to him suffering back or shoulder  pain  and that was in the same area 
where hed previously suffered from a recurring  condition. 
And there isnt any clear evidence of an alternative cause for the problem  the medical 
report from the second hospital in particular says no trauma marks. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Axa to conclude there  was at least an indirect  link between the problem 
Mr Y experienced while on holiday and the condition hed previously been diagnosed with. 
As a result I dont think there are grounds  to alter the view I reached in my provisional  
decision. 
Ref: DRN14724103my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to accept  or reject my decision before 
6 March 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1472410