K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage advice  Miss H received from a broker who is a 
representative of TenetLime Ltd. Miss H was wrongly advised about  how much money shed 
need to buy a second property, and was forced to borrow from her parents. 
background
The basic  facts and circumstances of the complaint arent in dispute.  Miss H owned a 
property on which she had a residential mortgage. She planned to buy a second property to 
live in, whilst  keeping her existing house  and renting it out. This was to be funded  by a 
residential mortgage on the new property  and a buy-to-let re-mortgage  of her existing 
property.
TenetLime advised on and arranged both mortgages; after offers were issued for both, 
Miss H exchanged contracts  on the purchase. Only then,  at the behest of her solicitor, was it 
revealed that TenetLime had miscalculated.  It seems its advisor  had overlooked the need to 
repay the existing  residential mortgage on Miss Hs home. Committed to the purchase  and, it 
seems, fearing  personal  bankruptcy  (which  would have disqualified her from acting  as 
director of her own company) Miss H borrowed £66,000 from her parents to complete the 
purchase.
When Miss H complained, TenetLime admitted  its error  and offered her £750 compensation. 
But it said ultimately, it was her responsibility  (assisted by her solicitor) to ensure she had all 
the money she needed to complete the purchase before committing  to do so. Miss H 
rejected the offer and referred her complain  to us. She said shed been left without  funds to 
re-furbish her new home and owing a large amount of money  to her parents, on which  shes  
paying interest. Shes subsequently had to take time off work  due to stress.
Our adjudicator didnt  think TenetLimes  offer was enough; he recommended it pay Miss H a 
further £495. Miss H has raised no objection to that proposal but TenetLime has. It thinks  its 
existing offer is enough, and has asked that an ombudsman review  the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont have to decide fault here; its 
common ground that TenetLimes adviser  got his sums wrong  by overlooking  the fact that 
the existing mortgage needed  repaying. 
Im aware Miss H has made a separate complaint to the Legal Ombudsman about the role of 
her conveyancer in the transaction, and that complaint has been determined. I mention it 
merely for context; my role here is to decide  how TenetLime should  fairly put things right.  
Even though  Miss H hasnt expressed  any disappointment with the adjudicators 
recommended settlement,  Im conscious that it doesnt award  her any redress for the 
financial impact of the decisions she took after the shortfall was revealed. For completeness,  
Ill explain  why thats the case.
I cant consider any impact on Miss Hs parents here; they arent TenetLimes customers. 
Also, its worth  pointing  out that even  after having  exchanged contracts, Miss H could have 
aborted the transaction  altogether.  There would have  been a financial sanction (that could 
Ref: DRN10966262have formed part of a differently-framed complaint) but in all likelihood  it would have  been  
much less than the £66,000 Miss H ended up borrowing in order to keep to her plan to own 
two properties  and rent one of them out for an income. 
Its reasonable to conclude  that keeping to that plan was of sufficient  importance  to Miss H 
that she took the decisions she took. I dont imagine  for one moment that these werent 
difficult and pressured  decisions  to make; nonetheless, they were Miss Hs decisions when 
other alternatives existed  that might have had a lesser impact  on her.
The offer of £750, when viewed as compensation for distress and inconvenience  is not 
unreasonable, as far as it goes. But I can see why the adjudicator recommended  a further  
sum. Although he didnt  reference it specifically, £495 happened to be the broker  fee Miss H 
paid TenetLime  for the service it provided.  In all the circumstances, and given the serious 
shortcomings in that service,  its neither  fair nor reasonable that Miss H should pay for it.
Theres one more thing.  Miss H has said shed like an apology from TenetLime.  Im always 
reluctant to order a business to apologise to someone and here its no different.   It always 
seems to me that an apology given under duress has no value. TenetLimes final response 
did include  an apology, albeit a rather formulaic and impersonal one. Id like to think 
TenetLime will realise that a slightly more considered  expression  of regret is warranted,  and 
that it will provide it willingly without me telling it to.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint;  in full and final settlement, I direct TenetLime  Ltd to pay Miss H a 
total of £1,245, made up as follows:
£495 refund of her broker fee; and
£750 compensation.
I make  no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1096626