K820x#14complaint
Mrs S, represented by her husband Mr S, complains  that Family Assurance  Friendly  Society 
Limited will no longer allow her to take advantage of a special provision of her existing 17-70 
Investor Policies that gives  her the option to take replacement  polices  when her existing 
ones mature.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs S complaint in February 2019, a copy is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In it I explained  why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. While sympathetic to 
Mrs S situation, I considered that Family Assurances offer to pay £450 compensation for 
the trouble and upset created by its inability to implement the special provision and start a 
new policy for Mrs S was fair and reasonable. This was particularly in the context of there 
being other savings  and insurance options  being  available to Mrs S.
Family Assurance confirmed that it nothing further to add. 
Mr S responded with a number of points,  in brief:
Family Assurances inability to put in place new policies was more  than an annoying 
shock; Mrs S future financial position  relied upon the policies. 
The offer of compensation was inadequate, particularly given the lack of explanation 
or apology for the matter. 
The policies have  higher premiums because  of the special provision and any 
compensation should take this into account. 
He cannot  understand  why an exception cant be made in this case. But if not, 
compensation should also take into account  Family Assurances failure  to tell Mrs S 
about the changes sooner.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the further 
submissions, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to change my view.  
That said,  Id stress  again  that I do appreciate how frustrating this matter  is for Mr and Mrs S. 
It is clearly a situation entirely  of Family Assurances  making. As Mr S has pointed  out, Mrs S 
has simply continued to pay the premiums  over the years in good faith and sought to make  
use of the special provision as shed done previously. 
But ultimately, as I said in my provisional  decision, this sort of situation is not uncommon 
where policies  have very long lifespans. While it may be of little comfort  to Mr and Mrs S, 
Family Assurance has explained how the situation came about   as a result of a series of 
business takeovers  and the closure  of the investment fund. 
And it has also offered  apologies for not informing Mrs S sooner of the situation  and also for 
not being able to come up with a solution that would enable Mrs S to benefit  from the special 
provision  despite involving its IT, legal and technical departments.
Ref: DRN10394742In light of this, I still consider the initial offer made by Family Assurance, of £450, to be fair. I 
note that Mr S feels it should be much higher. But I have  to balance the inconvenience 
caused by the provision  no longer  being available with the fact that there  are alternative, 
possibly even more  suitable, options  available that Family Assurance has offered to help 
Mrs S with.
Im not entirely clear how much the life insurance provided by the policy is now a priority for 
Mrs S. But it does appear that a similar amount of cover to that provided by the 17-17 
Investor policy could  be provided by Family Assurance,  or another  provider, for around the 
£40 mark, leaving around £60 a month for saving,  assuming Mrs S still wants to commit a 
total of £100 monthly  double the previous premium  to a policy.
In summary,  I reiterate that I think Family Assurances offer of £450 is fair compensation for 
the loss of the special provision on this policy and Mrs S other policy  maturing in 2020, and 
also the failure to inform  her sooner of the issue. I note Mr Ss point about  higher premiums 
having been paid to the policy over the years in order to have the special provision facility. 
But I dont think it will be possible  to determine at this point whether that issue has actually 
led to a loss. And as such I think the issue is fairly addressed within  the £450 offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. I consider that 
what Family Assurance Friendly  Society Limited  has offered Mrs S is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10394743COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs S, represented by her husband Mr S, complains that Family Assurance  Friendly Society Limited 
no longer allows her to take advantage of a special  provision of her existing 17-70 Investor  Policies 
that gives her the option to take replacement polices  when her existing ones mature.
 
background
Mrs S has held two of the policies  in question. One matured in 2017, after a 10-year term,  and Mr S, 
on behalf of Mrs S, requested a replacement under the special provision,  as Mrs S had done 
previously. 
Family Assurance  explained  that due to a series of changes  over the last 10 years, involving  business 
mergers and the with-profits fund in which the policies were invested being closed  to new business, it 
was no longer  possible  to replace the policy. 
Family Assurance  apologised that it hadnt made Mrs S aware of this change  earlier and that it was 
no longer able to offer the option. It highlighted  that a replacement would also not be available for her 
other policy thats due to mature in 2020. It offered Mrs S £450 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the matter  and noted that it did have some other products that might  suit her requirements.
Mr S, on Mrs S behalf, didnt accept this and referred the complaint to us. Our adjudicator considered 
the matter but came to the conclusion that Family  Assurances response had been broadly fair. Mr S 
didnt agree,  as he felt Family  Assurance should honour the provision, so the matters been  referred 
to me to decide.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand how frustrating it must be for Mr and Mrs S to have encountered this situation.  Mrs S has 
previously taken advantage of the facility to start a replacement policy and, as a result  of Family 
Assurances failure  to notify policyholders  of the change, it must have come as an annoying shock to 
them in 2017 to be told that this was no longer possible.
That said, Ive considered Family  Assurances response  and am conscious  that situations do 
unavoidably arise,  as time passes, where business changes mean that products and their related 
features have to be varied. But its nevertheless important that policyholders  are not disadvantaged  by 
such changes  or if they are then appropriate compensation is offered.  
In terms of the disadvantage of the replacement policies  no longer being  available, while it clearly  
wouldve been  easier for Mr and Mrs S if they could  simply have exercised the option as before, I 
think there are likely to be a number  of alternatives open to them, either  with Family Assurance or 
other providers. 
Mr S has confirmed  that the life insurance  provided  by the policies isnt a priority need  its more of a 
useful added benefit.  This being so, and given that Mrs S was planning to double her premiums in any 
event, I think  it would  be reasonably straightforward for her to find alternative investment or savings  
vehicles, and ones that might potentially be more  suitable than the 17-70 Investor policies. 
But there is, of course, still the inconvenience associated with them having to do so, both now and 
again in 2020. And in that respect I think its right that compensation is paid to Mrs S. Family  
Assurance had offered  £450  and, as Mr S is aware, Id considered that this should be increased. 
However, that was based on an understanding that the life insurance provided by the policies was of 
Ref: DRN10394744equal importance to Mr and Mrs S as the savings  element. And that  if anything  was likely to be the 
feature that was more difficult to replicate. But as thats not the case, Im of the view that the original 
£450 offer is fair. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently minded not 
to uphold the complaint as I consider that what Family  Assurance Friendly  Society Limited  has offered 
Mrs S is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN1039474