K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained that Principal Insurance Limited didnt  provide  him with policy 
documents for his motorbike insurance policy and additional products cover. As a result,  his 
claim for additional products was delayed.
background
Mr G bought a motorbike insurance  policy  and also an additional helmet and leathers (H&L) 
policy through a broker, Principal  Insurance,  in April 2017. 
In August  2017  he contacted Principal  as he was involved in an accident. He said he found 
their number on a website as he didnt receive  any policy documents when he bought his 
policy. 
Principal passed  the details of Mr Gs bike claim to his insurer. But it didnt contact the 
insurer for the separate H&L policy. So when  the motorbike insurer settled Mr Gs claim, he 
didnt accept it, as he believed it was refusing to deal with his H&L claim. As Mr G didnt 
receive any policy documents, he didnt know it was underwritten by a separate insurer. 
Mr G said he thought  Principal was his insurer for everything, and that it was dealing with his 
whole claim.  
Mr G has made a separate  complaint to his insurer about how his motorbike claim was dealt 
with. He is dissatisfied with Principal because  Principal  didnt send  him his policy documents  
until he complained  about not having them in January 2018. Principal apologised for failing 
to send Mr G his H&L policy documents. It sent him the policy documents  for both policies.
 
In February and March  2018 Mr G wrote to Principal and listed  the losses  which he wanted it 
to cover.  These came  to over £10,000.  He didnt  receive a reply, so he asked our Service to 
consider this complaint. He also complained that Principal had failed  to reply to some of his 
complaint letters.  In July Principal  offered him £50 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt  think £50 compensation was enough for the delay and poor service  
Principal had provided. She recommended  it pay Mr G a further £200 compensation. But she 
didnt think that £10,000 was merited.
Mr G didnt agree. He says we havent properly investigated his complaint in line with our 
statutory powers. Principal agreed to pay a total of £100, but did not agree to £250. So this 
case was passed  to me for an ombudsmans decision. I wrote a provisional decision which 
read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not considering whether either  of the insurance  claims should have been upheld. This is 
a matter for the underwriters.  Mr G already has another  complaint with our Service  against 
the underwriter of the motorbike policy, and that is being dealt with separately.  This 
complaint against  Principal  is only about what it was responsible for in its capacity as the 
broker of the policies.
Ref: DRN17547752When Mr G reported the accident  to Principal, his claim about the motorbike was forwarded  
to the relevant insurer at the time. So although  there has been a delay in dealing  with that 
claim, I cannot hold Principal responsible  for that.
It isnt clear from the documentary evidence  whether  Mr G made his claim on the H&L policy  
at the same  time. Principal invites me to infer that he didnt, because it says that if he had 
done, then its agent (to whom Principal outsources its first notification of loss procedures) 
would have raised this claim with Principal, and it didnt. But the simplest  way to prove this 
would just have  been to forward  Mr Gs claim to us, so we could see what  he had included. 
Mr G says that he made a comprehensive and detailed claim which included photographs.  
I accept that it was detailed, because brevity  has not been  a hallmark  of his submissions to 
this Service. So on the balance of probabilities, I think  it is likely that he did claim for damage 
to his helmet and leathers.
I am reinforced in that conclusion by the fact that he was injured in the accident and 
attended hospital, which makes it likely that his helmet and leathers were damaged, and also 
by Mr Gs explanation  (which I accept) that he believed he had one policy and that Principal 
was the insurer,  not merely a broker. He therefore didnt realise he had to make  two 
separate claims. So he thought that he had done  enough  to lodge his H&L claim at the time.
Principal sent Mr G the policy documents for both policies on 19 January 2018. I have seen 
the H&L policy  document, and it identifies the underwriter and explains how to make a claim. 
So I think that Principal  is responsible for the delay in the making of an H&L claim up to that 
date, but not afterwards.  (In February Mr G had not yet made  an H&L claim, and so he was 
reminded how to do so.)
Our investigator thought that was worth another £200 because  Mr G had been without his 
helmet and leathers for five months as a result. But I think  this may be too much, as he 
wouldnt have needed them if he was also without his bike for that period. So I am inclined to 
think that a total of £100 would be fair compensation for this issue,  but if Mr G can show  that 
there was a period during which he had a new bike but no helmet or leathers (or he had to 
buy his own) then I will reconsider this. (However, I will also take into account  the fact that 
once he was finally sent the policy documents, he still did not make a claim right away.)
Finally, Mr G complains  that Principal did not reply to letters sent to it by him or on his behalf 
on 28 February and 6 March 2018.
I have read both letters. The first is a short  letter which  ends by saying that Principal will 
shortly be hearing from Mr Gs legal  advisor. So I think that Principal was entitled to wait 
and see what that letter was going to say before replying.
When the legal advisors letter did arrive  this is the letter  dated 6 March  it opened with 
the following  words:
I act for, having been instructed by [Mr G] in the matter of Principal Insurance  
Limited's negligence. (sic)
However, the letter does not appear to have come from a law firm or a claims management 
firm. It was written  by someone who gave an email  address the first part of which  consists of 
his initials  and the word legal,  but he does not appear to be on the roll of solicitors or on the 
register of practicing barristers. Having  regard to the provisions of Part 2 of the 
Ref: DRN17547753Compensation Act 2006 (now repealed, but which was then in force),  I think I can see why 
Principal chose not to respond to that letter.  I do not uphold that part of this complaint.
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to any 
further representations I receive  from the parties  I intend to order  Principal Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr G £100.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision. I gave Mr G a deadline extension to 
respond by 14 October, but he did not reply. So there is no reason for me to depart from my 
provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Principal Insurance  Limited  to 
pay Mr G £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019. But my final decision concludes this Services  
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1754775