K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the commission that was included  in the payment protection  
insurance (PPI) premiums he paid, for a policy associated with his credit  card that he took 
out with Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS).
background
Mr F complained to BoS that it should refund the commission which was part of the PPI he 
had paid for a policy associated  with his credit card. BoS said Mr F has already had all the 
premiums refunded as part of the compensation paid when it upheld that his complaint that 
the PPI was mis-sold, he wasnt  due anything more. 
Mr F had made a number  of claims on his PPI policy whilst  it was running. So BoS had set 
the amount of the claims hed been paid against the compensation due to him for the 
mis-sale. As the claims totalled  more  than the costs  of the PPI, no compensation was paid 
directly to Mr F. 
Mr F has now complained that he is due back the commission and profit  share over 50% that 
were part of the premiums  paid for the policy in 2007. This is  in line with a Supreme Court  
Judgement and the subsequent Financial  Conduct  Authority Rules that were introduced.   
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2019, a copy of which is attached 
to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out in some detail the background to this complaint and the 
reasons why I thought Mr F wasnt due to be paid anything more by BoS. I explained  why I 
thought Mr F had already been  refunded all the PPI premiums and this included any 
commission. So he wasnt entitled  to have the commission part of the premiums refunded  to 
him again.
BoS has received  my provisional decision and made no further  comments.
Mr F responded that he wasnt happy  with my findings, as he thought  I hadnt  addressed  his 
complaint correctly. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened  to the phone call Mr F made  to our adjudicator, as he requested; taken into 
account his email response to my provisional  decision; and also spoke to Mr F to allow him 
to present his concerns, as he is unable  to write easily at present. I have also reconsidered 
all the earlier  points  he has raised regarding this complaint.
Mr F indicated in response to my provisional decision that his complaint is only related to the 
period 2007 and the commission paid during this period. He doesnt  think  I have addressed 
his complaint correctly  stating: since it is about  the first claim made that was declined by 
your service  on the basis that despite  the indemnity  failing to meet  the outstanding loan I 
would have bought the product  anyway. 
Ref: DRN19989582I stated in my provisional decision  that as Mr F has already  had a final response from an 
ombudsman on his complaint about  his first claim on the policy, I cannot reconsider or look 
at anything about that claim  or issues raised in that complaint. The ombudsmans decision 
on that matter was final and the complaint about  the claim amount paid is closed.
Mr F has also commented on the amount of the commission taken by BoS in 2007 and the 
fact he considers he would never have bought this PPI policy if he had known how much 
commission was being charged.  
No matter what Mr F feels about  the sale of the PPI, why it may have been mis-sold and the 
claims he made, in 2012 BoS upheld his complaint that his PPI policy  was mis-sold. The 
result of that meant Mr F was refunded all the premiums he paid for the PPI policy as part of 
the compensation BoS calculated in 2012  to rectify the mis-sale. Any commission  he paid as 
part of the PPI premiums  was therefore also refunded at that time.
BoS had a right to deduct any claims paid to Mr F from the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI. The purpose  of that compensation is to put a consumer  in the position they wouldve 
been in if they had never bought the PPI. If Mr F hadnt bought this PPI from BoS he 
wouldnt have been paid the money  he got when  he made his claims on the policy. 
Mr F isnt due any more compensation for the commission that was part of the PPI 
premiums, whenever those premiums were  paid, as he has already  received  this as part of 
the compensation for the mis-sold  PPI. That compensation  put him in the position as if he 
had never  paid any premiums for the PPI he bought.  So he is not out of pocket for the costs  
of the PPI or for any commission that was included in those costs.
Mr F has said he wants me to only consider what happened in 2007, when he made his first 
claim on the policy and before  the policy was deemed mis-sold and compensation paid in 
2012. But I have  to take into account  he has been refunded  all the premiums,  and so all the 
commission, he ever paid and he isnt entitled  to get the commission amount back  twice.  
In my provisional decision I covered the issues that had arisen throughout the whole history 
of Mr Fs dealings  with BoS.  I considered if any premiums had ever been paid after 2012, 
when the issue  of the PPI cancellation  and further claim was considered. I went  through this 
in my provisional decision to ensure that Mr F hadnt  paid any further  premiums  after the 
compensation calculation. If he had paid more premiums at a later date, he may have been 
due a commission refund if later premiums hadnt been refunded.
However as I explained  in my provisional  decision,  Mr F didnt pay any further premiums 
after the PPI was cancelled, despite  the fact it was then reinstated to allow  him to make a 
further claim.  Mr F has indicated  that no further  premiums were charged and he no longer 
has any concerns about the cancellation of the PPI as that has been resolved.
In this decision I am considering if there  is any refund of commission  due to Mr F, the 
commission being paid as part of the PPI premiums on his policy associated with his credit 
card.
I have seen no additional evidence to persuade me to reach a different outcome to that in 
my provisional decision, which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
Mr F had all his premiums  for the PPI refunded as part of the compensation calculated in 
relation to the mis-sale  of the PPI. So he isnt due a refund of any commission that was 
Ref: DRN19989583included in the premiums he paid throughout the whole time the PPI was active.  Hes 
already had those  back  as part of the mis-sale compensation. I am therefore not upholding 
Mr Fs complaint that he is due any commission refund.
my final decision
I am satisfied that Bank of Scotland plc has refunded all the premiums paid by Mr F for the 
PPI and so he isnt due any further  refund of commission  that was part of those premiums.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Copy of the Provisional Decision
background
Mr F complained to BoS that it should refund to him the commission paid as part of the PPI premiums  
following a Supreme  Court judgment. 
BoS said no commission refund was due as it had previously upheld  Mr Fs complaint  that the PPI 
was mis-sold. So when  the compensation he was due for the mis-sale was calculated,  the full costs of 
Ref: DRN19989584the PPI, including  any commission, was worked out in line with the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) 
requirements. 
In Mr Fs case, as he had made claims  on his PPI policy, the amount of the compensation  due to be 
paid to him for the mis-sale was set against the amount paid for the claims. As the claims totalled 
more than the costs of the PPI, no compensation was paid directly to Mr F. 
However the compensation calculation included  a refund  of all the PPI premiums,  including any 
commission. So BoS said Mr F wasnt due any commission refund  for this later complaint.
Mr F wasnt happy with the response from BoS and brought his complaint about  the commission 
refund to this service. Mr F says any claims  he was paid are totally unrelated to the commission he 
was charged as part of the PPI premiums because  the insurer pays the claims, not the business who 
is the broker  selling the policy, in this case BoS.  
So he thinks  BoS should repay the commission  to him and any issues about  claims  paid should  not 
be considered. As the PPI mis-sale compensation was set against the claims paid by the insurer, Mr 
F thinks it unfair that the commission shouldnt be refunded directly  to him by BoS who kept the 
commission. 
Our adjudicator said what BoS had said was fair, as Mr F had had all the premiums, including any 
commission, refunded  so he wasnt due anything else to be repaid. Mr F still wasnt happy and asked 
for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr F first complained about this PPI policy on the credit card in 2012 he said it was mis-sold. 
He explained that if he had understood  how the policy  worked at the time he took it out, he would  not 
have bought it, but he would  have bought a different  one. 
BoS agreed the policy  was mis-sold and upheld Mr Fs complaint. However at the time BoS also 
cancelled the PPI policy, on the basis  the PPI was mis-sold,  and it did not get Mr Fs agreement to the 
cancellation. 
Mr F later complained that he had wanted to make another claim  on the policy  and was unable to do 
so when  he discovered the policy  had been cancelled by BoS. He felt BoS should  pay additional 
compensation for the claim he had been unable  to make. He brought his complaint about that issue to 
this service in 2016 and a final decision was issued by a different ombudsman.  That decision  was 
accepted by Mr F and is therefore legally binding on both parties.
That decision  found that both parties agreed the PPI policy was mis-sold in 2012.  When  considering 
the action taken  by BoS in 2012, the ombudsman  also found  that BoS had cancelled the PPI without 
agreement from Mr F. Therefore the ombudsman directed  that BoS should  reinstate the policy so Mr 
F could make that claim retrospectively.  There was also a direction  that any premiums that could have 
been charged  for the reinstated policy from 2012 to 2016, should  not be charged,  unless a claim was 
paid and then the premiums could be deducted from the claim amount.
Mr F is now complaining about  the commission over 50% that he may have paid as part of the 
premiums for the PPI policy from when the policy was first taken out. 
Following a Supreme Court judgement, the FCA set out circumstances where a business needed to 
refund some of the commission and profit share that a consumer paid. Mr F says these  rules mean  he 
should now get further compensation from BoS.
Ref: DRN19989585PPI premiums paid from 2005 to 2012
Mr F paid premiums for the PPI from when the policy  was taken  out in 2005 to the date it was 
cancelled in 2012. BoS has provided copies of statements for the account  and I can see the last 
premium paid was in January 2012. 
BoS wrote to Mr F in March 2012 when it upheld  his mis-sale complaint. At that point it worked out 
compensation for the mis-sale to put Mr F, as far as possible, in the position  he would have been in if 
he had never  taken out the PPI. This meant that compensation also put him the in position he would  
have been in if he had not paid anything for PPI, including  commission to the date of BoS calculation.  
Mr F had at that time in 2012  made two claims on his PPI policy, so BoS set off the compensation due 
to Mr F against the amount  he was paid in claims. We consider this a fair approach, as if Mr F had 
never taken  out the policy he would never had been paid the claims. 
So from when the policy started until when  the offer was calculated in March  2012,  Mr Fs 
compensation included a refund of all the PPI premiums he had ever paid. So he has, in effect, never 
paid any premiums for the PPI, putting him as far as possible in the position hed be in if he hadnt 
taken out the PPI. As he has paid no premiums, he also hasnt  paid any commission. Therefore 
based on what I have seen, no excess commission is due to be paid to him for any premiums paid 
during this period  to March  2012.
premiums paid from 2012 to date
Following his complaint  to this service in 2016  about the cancellation of the policy, it was directed  by 
the ombudsman that the policy should be reinstated back to 2012 to allow Mr F to make a further 
claim on the policy. But that ombudsmans  decision said the unpaid  premiums from 2012 to March  
2016 shouldnt be charged to Mr F unless he made any other claim on the policy.
The statements now provided by BoS from 2008 to December 2017 show that that no premiums for 
PPI have been charged to Mr Fs account since January 2012. Although a retrospective  claim was 
made and paid to Mr F in 2016, relating to a period  in 2013/2014, no premiums for the costs of the 
PPI were charged or deducted from that claim, even though the ombudsman had said it was fair for 
that to happen. 
Therefore based on the evidence provided  so far, no further premiums were paid by Mr F for the 
policy after January 2012, so no commission has been paid by him for the later reinstatement of the 
policy to allow his retrospective  claim.  In effect, Mr F has been able to benefit from a PPI policy 
without having paid for it.
other issues 
I have taken account of all Mr Fs points and his contention that his claims on the policy are irrelevant 
to the commission amounts  charged.  If Mr F hadnt  had his mis-sale complaint upheld,  then I agree  
the claims paid to him would not be relevant to the refund of the commission. 
If Mr Fs mis-sale complaint  had not been upheld  and he had paid the premiums, even if he had made 
successful claims  on his policy, then he would be able to get back any excess commission paid as 
part of the premiums. The commission included  in any premiums he had actually paid, for a validly 
sold PPI policy, would not be set against any claim  amount. So when  this happens, any excess  
commission would be repaid  by BoS in line with the rules  set by the FCA telling  businesses how to 
deal with complaints about PPI. 
However as Mr Fs complaint about the PPI being mis-sold was upheld in 2012, he has been put in 
the position as if he never paid anything for the PPI. In the situation of a mis-sale, the claims made 
are relevant, as Mr F would never have been able to make them if hed had no PPI. And I think  this is 
a fair approach.
Ref: DRN19989586Therefore Ive seen nothing,  so far, to show Mr F is owed any commission refund for PPI premiums 
he has paid. He has been put in the position as if hed never paid any premiums for the PPI, so as he 
has in effect paid no premiums he has therefore paid no commission. The FCA sets rules  that BoS 
has to follow, and what  BoS has done is consistent with what the rules tell it to do.
Ive thought about whether there is anything about Mr Fs complaint that means  BoS should  do 
anything different  to answer his complaint. But I dont think there is. I think what BoS has done is a fair 
way to resolve the complaint, so I am not intending to tell it do anything  further.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, Im satisfied Bank of 
Scotland plc has effectively already refunded all the premiums Mr F paid for the PPI policy, so there is 
no commission  to repaid  to Mr F. So Im not intending to tell Bank of Scotland plc to pay anything 
more. 
This is all subject to any further information that is provided by either party by the date indicted  at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1998958