K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Casheuronet provided to Mr W between 
June 2015 and April 2016. Mr Ws lending history is as follows:
Our adjudicator upheld  part of Mr Ws complaint. He thought  that once topped up, loan 2 
was too large  to be sustainably affordable; loan 3 left Mr W with too little disposable income; 
and that it shouldve been clear  Mr W was borrowing  unsustainably by the time he applied  
for loans  4 and 5. So he thought that the loans  from loan 2s top-up onwards shouldnt  have  
been given. Casheuronet  disagreed,  and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Casheuronet needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Casheuronet should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); Loan number Date Amount borrowed Repayment amounts
1 16 June  2015 £100 £124.80
2 22 July 2015 £300 £61.56 and £370.68
2 (Top-up) 29 July 2015 £200 £91.96 and £617.80
3 8 December 2015 £50 £65.20
4 4 March 2016 £500 £140, £112, and £612
4 (Top-up) 17 March 2016 £500 £228, £224,  and £1,224
5 6 April 2016 £500 £620
5 (Top-up) 13 April 2016 £500 £212 and £1,224
Ref: DRN11276832the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Casheuronet was required to 
establish whether  Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable  
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator, and for much the 
same reasons.
The repayments on Mr Ws first loan and the initial borrowing  of the second loan were 
relatively modest compared  to the income  he declared to Casheuronet. So given Mr Ws 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about his circumstances  at the time,  and his history 
with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Casheuronet to ask him for 
the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending was unsustainable. And 
there wasnt anything  in the information Mr W provided or the information  Casheuronet 
shouldve been  aware of which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what  
he was saying. So I dont  think  Casheuronet was wrong to give these two loans to Mr W.
But, as our adjudicator  explained, a proportionate check for loan 2s top-up would most likely 
have shown that the repayments formed a significant proportion of Mr Ws income,  and that 
it would  be likely hed have difficulty meeting them  as he went  on to do.
Similarly, I think a proportionate check for loan 3 wouldve shown that, according to his 
reported income and outgoings, Mr W was left with less than £10 of disposable income. 
I think that wouldve  left him with far too little readily available  funds in case  anything  in his 
life changed or went wrong, and I dont think it was reasonable to think he could  reliably 
meet his repayment  with such little leeway.
So I think these two loans  were lent irresponsibly.
Ref: DRN11276833Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Casheuronets  lending  history with Mr W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Casheuronet should reasonably have seen  that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Casheuronet should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
By loan 4, Mr W had a significant history of late and missed  payments on previous 
loans. And I dont think those previous loans were taken long enough ago for 
Casheuronet to have  reasonably thought that Mr Ws financial situation  had fully 
gotten better. Indeed,  his borrowing had increased  relatively dramatically, rather than 
going down.
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Casheuronet. Loan 4 
was taken out 9 months after Mr Ws first. And it was for a significantly larger amount. 
By then,  Mr W had paid large amounts of interest to Casheuronet to effectively,  
service a debt to it over an extended  period.
From  loan 4 onwards,  Mr W was borrowing regularly and consistently from 
Casheuronet, being provided with a new loan within a few weeks  of settling a 
previous one. So Casheuronet ought to have realised it was more  likely than not 
Mr W was having  to borrow further  to cover  the hole repaying his previous  loans  was 
leaving in his finances, and that Mr Ws indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr W lost out because Casheuronet continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in the market  for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 4 and 5, and Casheuronet should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Casheuronet needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid from loan 2s top-up to loan 4s top-up 
inclusive;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN11276834from the information I have for loan 5 and its top-up, it seems  Mr W borrowed £1,000 
as capital and paid back at least £1,851.50. Casheuronet should restructure loan 5 
and its top-up to treat all repayments  as going towards the principal that Mr W took 
out. That means Mr W has paid enough  to clear  the capital he borrowed,  and has 
nothing left to pay. So Casheuronet should  refund what Mr W has overpaid, and add 
simple interest at 8% a year on his overpayments from the date they were paid until 
the date of settlement;
Casheuronet should remove any negative  information about loans 2 and 3 from 
Mr Ws credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 and 5 should be removed from 
Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. Casheuronet must  
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
should put things right for Mr W in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1127683