K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, is unhappy  Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt  amend the mandate on its 
business banking  account when this was originally requested. 
background
P has explained that in 2018 its director went into a branch of Lloyds Bank to change  its 
address. But, it was told this couldnt be completed because the mandate set up for the 
business account noted there were three signatories to the account. To change  details on 
the account Lloyds said it would need  the authorisation of each of these signatories.
P said there  shouldnt have been three signatories on the account. It said there was only one 
director of the company   and that previous  directors  had no interest  in the company.  P said 
it had visited a branch  of Lloyds Bank  some  years ago to make changes to the mandate  on 
the account  so there was only one signatory  on the account. It said it had completed the 
relevant forms at this time, and was told the requested change would be made. So, P was 
unhappy that it appeared this hadnt been  actioned.
Lloyds said to change  the details on Ps account it would need P to complete  a mandate 
variation form again. It said it didnt  have any evidence  as to what happened ten years ago. 
And it had been  unable  to establish why Ps previous request hadnt been completed.  It 
apologised for this error. And it offered P an amount of £225 to compensate it for the 
inconvenience it experienced   and to cover  the cost of calls it needed to make to Lloyds 
about the issue.
P didnt  feel this was fair. So, it referred its complaint  to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think this complaint should be upheld.  He thought the apology Lloyds had given P, and the 
compensation provided was a fair. And although  inconvenienced, he thought  Lloyds had 
explained to P how the mandate could be changed so it showed the correct details.
P didnt  agree  and wanted  an ombudsman to review the complaint and provide a final 
decision. So, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
P said that in 2007 it visited a Lloyds branch to make some changes to the signatories  on 
the account. And that it wasnt until 2018  it noticed that its request hadnt been completed.  
Lloyds has said it doesnt know  what happened  when P originally  made its request to 
change the details on the account. But it has accepted something went  wrong. So, I dont 
need to consider this any further.  Instead,  Ive needed to think  about whether Lloyds has 
acted fairly  in the way it has tried to solve the issue.
When Lloyds became aware of the above  problem it provided  P with information  on how to 
put the problem right. It explained  P would need to complete  a mandate  variation form and 
return this to Lloyds  to action. On becoming aware  of the problem I wouldve expected  
Ref: DRN12533662Lloyds to assist  P in getting the information  changed on the account,  so this was correct. Im 
satisfied by informing  P of the forms it would need  to complete it did do this. 
Lloyds also apologised  for the problem  P experienced. And, it recognised that having  to take 
action to change  the mandate on the account  would have been inconvenient  for P. It offered 
an amount of £225 to recognise this. Ive thought about whether I think  this is fair. And Im 
satisfied it is.
I can understand why P was concerned to discover, some ten years later, that no changes  
had been made on its account. And I can appreciate it was inconvenient for it to need  to call 
Lloyds about the issue, and complete forms again.  But, I think £225 fairly reflects  this 
inconvenience and the costs P may have incurred in making the calls.  So, I dont require it to 
do anything more.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Lloyds Bank  PLC do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1253366