K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the short term loans he took out with CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading as 
QuickQuid. Mr R says that the short term loans left him in a debt spiral. He eventually 
needed help from his parents to repay his debts. He thinks  QuickQuid shouldve  seen this 
and not lent to him. 
background
Mr R took out five loans  between  February  2017  and July 2017. The loans (other than loans 
1 and 2) were  repayable over three  periods. There were two lower payments followed by a 
higher one. Mr R increased the amount he borrowed on loans 4 and 5. I have called these 
loans a to c. Some  of the information  QuickQuid has given us is shown in the table below: 
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 18/02/2017 £100.00 34 24/02/2017
2 12/03/2017 £100.00 45 12/03/2017
3 17/03/2017 £300.00 101 24/03/2017
4 08/04/2017 £400.00 41
4a 09/04/2017 £200.00 40
4b 30/04/2017 £52.00 1921/07/2017
5 21/07/2017 £400.00 42
5a 24/07/2017 £300.00 39
5b 25/07/2017 £100.00 38
5c 29/07/2017 £300.00 3411/10/2017
QuickQuid has looked at Mr Rs complaint  and said that it shouldnt be upheld. It said that it 
did appropriate checks for all of the loans. And these checks  showed  that they were 
affordable based  on Mr Rs declared monthly income and expenditure. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and recommended that QuickQuid refund 
the interest and charges that he paid on loans 3 to 5c. QuickQuid didnt agree with this 
recommendation and so the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.  
Having done so, Ive decided to partially  uphold Mr Rs complaint.  As I think  QuickQuid was 
wrong to have given  Mr R loans 3 to 5c. Ill explain why.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Mr R and QuickQuid  said. She thought  Mr Rs 
complaint should  be partially upheld. She thought  that QuickQuid had made proportionate 
checks for loans 1 and 2. So she thought that QuickQuids  decisions to approve these loans 
was reasonable.  
Ref: DRN12860712She didnt  think that QuickQuid had made  proportionate  checks  for loans 3 to 5c. She 
thought if it had then it wouldnt  have agreed  to lend Mr R money at these times.  This is 
because she didnt  think that Mr R could afford  the repayments. And QuickQuid wouldve 
seen this had it completed  better checks.  
QuickQuid didnt comment  on our adjudicators  findings about the proportionality of its 
checks or the affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to 
consider. It responded to our adjudication saying:
In response to FOS assessment which recommends QuickQuid uphold loans which  were  
funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that we cannot agree to FOS 
recommendations. Please note that in QuickQuid's initial response to FOS we provided 
detailed information  indicating why the loans were responsibly lent to Mr R. Therefore, we 
kindly ask that you move this case to the ombudsman queue for a final decision.
QuickQuid first mentioned  this argument in its business submissions  to us in which  it said:
We started implementing changes to affordability assessment in June  2014  and all the 
changes were completed by 28 February  2015. Starting 01 March  2015, before Mr R 
borrowed his first loan, QuickQuid had implemented affordability review that is consistent 
with the FCA Handbook  and that was in place  at the time we received authorisation by the 
FCA. We confirm  that this assessment was conducted properly and individually for each of 
these loans..
It provided further detail  about the checks it had made when it approved  loans from 2015  
onwards in a document called CEU  Lending Criteria  and Proportional Checks when it 
provided its business file. But this response didnt change our adjudicators  opinion.
This Service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic  argument  directly and through 
earlier final decisions. So I am not going to expand on this point any further here, though  I 
have considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance  in 
how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman  are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent 
who handled  the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  
complaints received by the respondent and using this in training and development of 
the individuals dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  and communicating it to the individuals dealing  with 
complaints in the respondent. 
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Rs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
Ref: DRN12860713The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr R borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind  
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher  the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics of Mr Rs complaint. Mr R didnt disagree with our adjudicators 
opinion about  loans 1 and 2. Because of this I dont  think there  is any ongoing disagreement 
about these loans. So I wont be making  a decision about this lending.  But they were part of 
the overall borrowing relationship Mr R had with QuickQuid. So they are something I will take 
into account when  considering the other loans he took.
QuickQuid says: 
it recorded Mr Rs monthly  income  as £1,200  for loans 1 to 3, £2,614 for loan 4 and 
£3,703 for loan 5  
it recorded his monthly expenditure as £600 for loans 1 to 3 and £475 for loans 4 and 
5
it validated the information it obtained using credit reference  agency data
it used the information  it had obtained  to calculate Mr Rs estimated disposable 
income
why I dont  think QuickQuids checks were  proportionate for loans 3 to 5c
Loan 3 was Mr Rs third loan in a short period  of time  that is just over a month. Mr R had 
taken two loans  shortly before this of around  £100, and he borrowed £300 for loan 3. This 
was a large increase in the amount he was borrowing.  And whilst  I can see he was paid 
weekly, overall, hed need to repay about  half of his income over a monthly period alongside 
his other  regular bills. The highest repayment for loan 3 alone was just under a third of his 
declared monthly income. And Mr R went on to borrow much higher amounts over loans 4 
and 5.
So I think QuickQuid couldve realised at that time that Mr R may have some financial 
problems. He may not have been  just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. QuickQuid shouldve also become  concerned  about  whether it knew  enough about 
Mr Rs true financial  situation.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  before  approving  loans 3 to 5c to fully review 
Mr Rs finances. And I think QuickQuid needed to verify this information, as far as possible, 
to get an accurate picture of Mr Rs finances.  In order to make sure Mr R was in position to 
make the repayments  sustainably.
Ref: DRN12860714Although I havent  seen  the full details  of all QuickQuids credit checks, it has provided me 
with its estimate of Mr Rs disposable income.  But this seems  to be the same  as his declared  
income less his declared expenditure.  So whilst  I dont know  exactly  how it used the credit  
reference agency data, if it did at all, I cant see that it represented a proportionate check.  
QuickQuid doesnt  seem to have  fully reviewed Mr Rs finances. I think  it relied on the 
information Mr R provided and the results  of its credit checks. So I need to think about what  
its likely  proportionate  checks wouldve shown QuickQuid had they been  carried  out.
what I think proportionate checks would most  likely have  shown
Mr R has provided some  information about his financial  circumstances. His provided some 
excerpts from his bank statements, his recollections  about his expenditure and some of his 
payslips. I accept that this isnt exactly  what  QuickQuid wouldve seen at the time. But I think  
it wouldve  found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think its 
reasonable to rely on it.
Mr R has only been able to provide  limited  information. So its difficult  for me to accurately 
say what his income and expenditure would  be over these loans. 
But what  I can see is that a substantial portion of Mr Rs income  was spent on gambling. It 
seems that he would spend  more, sometimes a lot more, than his weekly pay in one day. He 
looks likely to have been doing this over all of the time he took out loans  3 to 5c. 
I think that QuickQuid wouldve found  out this information if it had made  proportionate  
checks. And I think it wouldve seen Mr R wouldnt have been  able repay  the loans in a 
sustainable way. So I think that QuickQuid shouldnt  have approved loans 3 to 5c. So Im 
upholding Mr Rs complaint about these loans.  
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr R, QuickQuid should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loans 3 to 5c;
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit  file about these loans;
HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Rs complaint. CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12860715
Ref: DRN1286071