K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mr R says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that because  
Santander told us that the commission for Mr Rs PPI was less than 50% of what he paid,  
Santander didnt  need to pay back any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Santander didnt need to tell Mr R 
about the commission it received - so Santander  doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr R paid for the PPI. Ive summarised  my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Santander  has provided a copy  of Mr Rs mortgage 
application form. There is a separate section for PPI which  makes it clear  it is optional. 
Mr R has indicated by ticking a box that he wants the PPI and he made  choices about 
the type of cover he wanted, too. 
Ref: DRN13808632Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And the evidence about  Mr Rs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr R was eligible for the 
cover and he didnt  have any means  to fall back on, so he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Rs employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could have affected his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health and/or back problems.
 Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr R as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably  thought he was buying  from the information  he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr R would have declined the 
cover had Santander done  anything  more.
Overall, I consider that Mr R would  have still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr Rs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Santander  should  have disclosed  the poor value and explained 
the significance  of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Rs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander didnt need  to disclose the commission  it received, 
so Santander  doesnt need  to pay back any of the commission Mr R paid. My reasons are 
set out below.
Ref: DRN13808633was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Rs representative has made a number of representations  about  this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr R should  get back all the money  he paid for the policy  
because: Santander failed  to tell Mr R about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say 
that meant  the policy was poor value,  I should find that Mr R wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about  the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But in this case, Santander has told us that the commission for Mr Rs PPI was less than half 
of what he paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Rs case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Santander  needed to tell Mr R about  the commission.  So it follows that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think Santander treated Mr R 
unfairly. 
This means  Santander  doesnt need to pay Mr R back any of the commission he paid for the 
PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN13808634my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Rs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Santander  UK PLC didnt need to disclose the commission  it 
received it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr R paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2021.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1380863