K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Virgin Money  plc (Virgin) blocked several payments he tried to make  
using his Virgin credit  card.  This meant he had to use alternative methods of payment.  As a 
result of this, he says he lost out on air miles.
background
Mr S opened  a Virgin credit card account  in June  2018. The annual  membership fee was 
£160 and air miles were  earned relative  to payments made using the card.
Mr S is unhappy because,  between September 2018 and December 2018 and again  in July 
2019, a number of payments he tried to make using the card didnt go through.   He says:
He had sufficient  credit available.
He doesnt  think the transactions werent irregular or unusual.  
Hes paid an annual fee for a card that he couldnt use in the way he wanted and hes 
lost out on air miles. He wants compensation for this as well as the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
Virgin accepted  that some payments  had been  blocked but it said it did so in the normal  
cause of fraud prevention.  So it didnt offer Mr S any compensation.  He was unhappy  with 
this and asked  us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr S complaint should be upheld.  She didnt  think  Virgin were 
wrong to block the payments as this was part of their fraud  prevention process. 
 
Mr S didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I dont uphold  Mr S 
complaint. 
Its right that a number  of Mr S payments were blocked. However, from the system notes 
provided I can see that these were  occasions  where there were concerns about  account 
security. Virgin say they sent text messages to Mr S to ask him to verify if the transactions 
were genuine  as was their process.  And if Mr S had responded to confirm that the payments  
were genuine,  the blocks  would have  been  removed. However, as Mr S didnt respond, the 
payments continued  to be blocked.
Mr S says that the payments  he was trying to make  were regular payments and werent  
suspicious so he doesnt understand Virgins reasons for blocking the transactions in the first 
place.  And  he says he didnt receive  the text messages Virgin  have referred to. He 
questions whether Virgin have the correct contact number for him. 
I appreciate that it must have been  inconvenient  for Mr S not to be able to use his card 
whenever he wanted to. However, I cant say that Virgin were  wrong  to carry out these 
checks. Ive checked Virgins terms and conditions.  Clause 15 in particular sets out that 
Virgin can prevent or limit the use of the card where  fraud is suspected. It appears Virgin had 
their reasons  for suspecting fraud and for asking  Mr S to verify the transactions. And had   
Ref: DRN17507732Mr S responded to the text messages  and confirmed the transactions  as genuine,  the blocks  
would have been removed. 
I appreciate Mr S says he didnt receive the text messages, but I can see from the system 
notes provided that some  text messages were sent to Mr S asking him to verify some  
transactions. Ive also seen a screen  shot of the information Virgin hold about Mr S and I 
note that the mobile number is the same as one of the numbers he gave us when he 
registered his complaint.  So based  on the evidence  I have seen, I have no reason to think 
that the text messages werent  sent to Mr S. And I cant say that it is Virgins fault that Mr S 
didnt receive the messages.
So all in all, while the transactions not going through may have caused Mr S inconvenience 
and Mr S may have  lost out on air miles,  I cant  say that Virgin were wrong to carry out the 
security checks  that they did. This means  I wont be asking  Virgin  to compensate  Mr S.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint against  Virgin Money  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1750773