K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Tesco  Underwriting Limited (Tesco) has treated them unfairly 
in relation to pricing of their buildings insurance policy,  and say it recorded a claim 
incorrectly. 
Mr C has led this complaint so I will refer to him only. In addition, all references made to 
Tesco include  its agents or representatives  unless specified.
background
The background of this claim is known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.  
Mr C made  a claim under his buildings insurance policy  following damage  to his property. 
Tesco accepted  the claim,  and following its investigations it said it had accepted the claim 
under the subsidence, heave  or landslip  section of the policy,  and would meet the cost of 
investigating and repairing  the damage  to his home  minus the excess of £1,100.
Tesco said its investigations showed there  were  significant defects to the pipework on the 
side and rear corner of Mr Cs home where  the damage was. It said this was due to root 
ingress and displaced joints and in turn this would allow water  to escape into the surrounding 
soil causing the clay soil to soften causing movement (subsidence).
It provided Mr C with its draft schedule of works (including internal and external repairs), 
alongside its loss adjustors report. Mr C received a renewal notice in November 2018, and 
complained, saying he was unhappy with the price  Tesco had offered to renew the policy, 
and he felt that the claim had been  recorded  incorrectly.
In December 2018 Tesco wrote to Mr C with its final response about his complaint. It said 
the renewal price was correctly calculated, and the claims team  had accurately recorded the 
claim as subsidence.  It also invited him to shop around should he be unhappy with the 
quote. Mr C cancelled his policy  around  this time but then reversed  the decision a short  time 
afterwards. 
In February 2019  Tesco  contacted Mr C to say it was unable  to begin repairs without a 
signed mandate/authorisation  form and excess.  And it said if it didnt  hear back  it would 
close the claim. Then in March 2019 Tesco emailed Mr C to reiterate  its technical  reports  
and experts had found the property had suffered  from subsidence movement due to the 
escape of water. Tesco said it had repaired the drains and the subsidence issue was 
resolved. But it said if he disagreed with its findings he could instruct his own independent  
expert and it would consider any thoughts to the contrary. 
I understand Mr C carried out repair works himself to cracks as he felt the excess would be 
too high to pay when compared  to the amount of work required.  In May 2019 Mr C brought 
his complaint to our service. He said Tesco had unfairly increased his renewal prices in 
2018. And he said the cause of this was Tesco  incorrectly recording his claim as subsidence  
even though it wasnt progressive or ongoing. He said this was unfair  particularly as the 
issue had been  rectified with simple  repairs.
Mr C said he wanted Tesco to change  how it recorded his claim,  remove  its £1,000 excess 
from the claim, and update its premiums to reflect the level of damage  and value of the claim 
overall. He also said he wanted Tesco to carry out remedial works  to cracks to walls under 
movement/settlement and offer reinstatement  of his policy at a fair premium.
Ref: DRN18778262One of our investigators  looked into what happened. Based  on the information Tesco had 
provided he was satisfied that Tesco  has considered Mr Cs claim history alongside the other 
information it had when calculating his premiums  for your period of insurance in question,  
which had led to the premium increase. 
Mr C disagreed, saying  Tesco had factored an additional water damage claim that he hadnt 
proceeded with into its pricing  which he said was a deliberate effort  to take more  money 
from him. Our investigator looked again and didnt change his mind. He said Mr Cs 
premiums had gone up at renewal only and that hed had the option to change insurers  had 
he wished to. Mr C reiterated  his concerns, saying hed only had made one claim and not 
two, and the price  Tesco  gave  compared to other insurers  was distorted.
Mr Cs concern about the classification of the claim was looked at by another investigator. 
She said the surveyors report was clear  that subsidence had occurred as a result of the 
escape of water. So, she didnt uphold the claim and said Tesco  hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Mr C responded to say the loss adjustors report overall supports his argument that the 
damage was caused by underground roots to the drainpipe  not subsidence. And these 
repairs carried a minimal cost with no further  work  (such as underpinning or any other  type 
of reinforcement)  required. 
So, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
recording of the subsidence claim
Mr C has said Tesco has unfairly recorded  his claim.  From what Ive seen, the claim was 
considered and accepted  under  the subsidence, heave or landslip section of his policy. The 
loss adjusters report from November 2017 says:
 The pattern  and nature  of the cracks is indicative of an episode of subsidence. The cause 
of movement appears to be due to an escape  of water.
Water escaping from drains  or from other sources in non-cohesive soils can cause localised 
erosion as the finer particles of soil are washed  away. It can also soften cohesive soils by 
reducing their shear strength.
Usually, the building stabilises following repairs to the damaged service.
This is in keeping with my understanding of subsidence caused by clay shrinkage. Mr C 
believes the escape of water  has caused  the damage to his home. But its clear  to me the 
escape of water caused the subsidence,  which  in turn caused the damage to his home  
such as cracking. 
Ref: DRN18778263Mr C has given his reasons why he believes Tesco has acted unfairly by classing this as 
subsidence  including  the cost and repairs required. But the remedy  or extent of repairs 
doesnt change  the cause  itself,  nor what Id expect an insurer to record. 
Mr C was invited by Tesco to provide  any expert opinion to show  this classification was 
inaccurate. But hes not provided anything to support or suggest Tescos loss adjusters  
findings were wrong. So it follows Im satisfied the damage was caused  by subsidence. And 
Im not asking Tesco to do anything further in regards to this issue.  
Mr C also questioned Tescos actions when asking him to pay an excess  in line with a 
subsidence claim  in line with my findings  above, Im satisfied  Tesco has acted  fairly  and 
reasonably by asking for this.
pricing
Mr C has told our service  he believes Tescos  increase in premiums doesnt reflect the works 
carried out. And hes said any increase should have some relationship to the actual cost of 
repairs.
As a service  it isnt our role to tell a business  what it should charge for the insurance it is 
offering, or what factors to consider  when  deciding this. This is a commercial decision and 
not one for this service. But I can look at individual complaints and see if businesses  have 
treated a customer fairly when pricing their policy to ensure theyve not taken advantage of a 
group or individual with the approach theyve taken.  And thats what Ive done  in this case.
Mr C has raised  concerns with how the price of his policy rose in 2017 and 2018 following 
the subsidence claim. So Ive considered  what  Tesco  has provided to explain this premium 
increase.
Tescos underwriters have demonstrated the majority of the price increase was driven  by the 
subsidence claim. And its shown that any policyholder  with the same risk details wouldve 
paid the same premiums.  So Im satisfied the main  reason for the price increase Mr C has 
complained about was the subsidence claim, and it applied the premiums fairly  and in the 
same way it wouldve  treated any other customer in the same position.
As our investigator has outlined previously Mr C was sent renewal documents  each  year 
which he hasnt disputed. And it seems on each occasion he was aware he had the option to 
shop around if he was unhappy with the prices  quoted. 
Mr C provided  a quote from a different insurer which he says shows Tescos  pricing  was 
excessive. But this is an open market for insurers to decide what  the cost of the insurance 
should be. And as a customer Mr C had the opportunity to shop around and purchase 
elsewhere if he was unhappy  which he has demonstrated when sourcing  quotes from 
other insurers. I think Mr Cs choice  to continue with Tesco was further demonstrated when 
cancelling his policy, albeit briefly, around December 2018. 
As a result I dont agree Tesco has treated Mr C unfairly with how it has priced  the policy he 
had with it. And Im not asking it to do anything further in this regard.
Our investigator had previously mentioned  a second  claim (related to an escape of water) 
potentially impacting the price alongside  the subsidence claim. From what  Ive seen from 
Ref: DRN18778264Tesco and Mr C, he was incorrect to say this as the second claim never went  ahead. So, Im 
satisfied the increase was due to the subsidence claim as Ive outlined above.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2021.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1877826