K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Simplyhealth Access  misled him into transferring his cover to 
another insurer when it stopped offering his private  medical insurance  policy.
background
Mr F had held a private medical insurance policy  with Simplyhealth  since  1989. The policy  
provided cover for him and his wife.
In 2015, Simplyhealth wrote to Mr F to tell him it had decided to withdraw  from the private 
medical insurance market  and sell its business  to another  insurer (which Ill call Z). It said it 
had made  arrangements  so that Z would offer continued cover  to its policyholders on 
essentially the same terms should  they so wish.
Mr F transferred his cover  to Z when his policy with Simplyhealth ended in 2016. However, 
when he and his wife made  claims  to Z, he considered the level of cover to be inferior to that 
which had been  provided by Simplyhealth  as their claims  werent covered in full. 
Furthermore, when the policy renewed in 2017,  his premium increased  by over 50%.
Mr F complained to Simplyhealth. He said he understood that Simplyhealth had a vested  
interest in getting  its policyholders to transfer to Z which it hadnt declared and said if hed 
known this he would have sought independent  advice at the time.  He considered it had 
misrepresented the similarity of the two policies and hadnt made  him aware  that the cost of 
his cover with Z would  increase sharply  in the second year. He said he couldnt now transfer  
to another insurer without  losing cover for a medical  condition from which he was now 
suffering. He wanted Simplyhealth to compensate him for the extra costs he had incurred, 
and would incur,  as a result of transferring to Z which  he estimated to be over £34,000.
Simplyhealth said it was satisfied it had acted appropriately. It said the sale of its private 
medical insurance business to Z had been  approved by the necessary regulators  and it had 
tried to make things as smooth as possible for its policyholders by ensuring their continuity of 
cover. It denied it had any conflict of interest. It couldnt comment on why Z hadnt  fully 
settled the claims made by Mr F and his wife or on why Z had increased  his renewal 
premium by over 50%. However, it pointed out that if it had continued to offer its own policy 
then Mr Fs renewal  premium would inevitably have increased as a result  of these claims 
and their effect on his no-claims  bonus.
Mr F was unhappy at Simplyhealths response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, the 
information provided by Simplyhealth  in advance of the sale of its private medical  insurance  
business to Z had been reasonable and not misleading. She considered that any concerns 
which Mr F had over Zs handling of claims and his increase  in premium needed to be 
addressed to Z rather than Simplyhealth.
Mr F didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. He highlighted Simplyhealths  statement in its 
correspondence about the sale of its private medical  insurance business that following a 
robust selection process we have chosen [Z] as the best PMI [private medical  insurance]  
partner for our customers. He considered this implied he need not look elsewhere because  
Simplyhealth had already determined that Zs policy would be the most suitable for him. He 
further highlighted the statement that the cover with Z would be essentially the same  as 
Ref: DRN11595292that with Simplyhealth. He considered this was misleading  based  on his own claims 
experience. He furthermore said Simplyhealth made no reference to the premium  which  Z 
would charge from the first renewal which represented an increase far in excess  of anything 
which Simplyhealth had previously imposed.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Simplyhealth made the commercial decision  to withdraw from the private medical insurance  
market and sell its business  to Z. The policy terms say it may decide  to no longer offer the 
product at renewal and that in such a situation  it will offer an alternative  policy,  if it has one, 
so that cover  may continue. Im satisfied that Simplyhealth was entitled  to sell its business  to 
Z and I consider it was reasonable for it to invite policyholders to have continuous cover with 
Z if they wished.
Mr F thinks Simplyhealth misleadingly implied  that Zs policy  was the most suitable for him. 
I dont think Simplyhealths stated  opinion that Z was the best PMI partner for its customers 
implied that it had necessarily ensured  Zs policy  was the most suitable policy for Mr Fs 
individual circumstances.  However, Mr F could be assured that by switching to Z he would 
continue to receive cover for any conditions for which Simplyhealth was providing  cover and 
the terms of the cover  would be broadly similar. I think these implications were reasonable 
and there  was no need for Simplyhealth to disclose any financial interest it had in the matter. 
Z later sent Mr F more  detailed information  to highlight any key differences  between  the 
policies. Mr F was under no obligation to go ahead with the transfer to Z and could have 
chosen to explore the offerings of other insurers if he wished.
Mr F has referred  to Zs settlement of his wifes  claim for cataract treatment  and compared  it 
to Simplyhealths  settlement of his own claim for similar treatment as evidence  of the 
inferiority of Zs cover. It appears that Z was prepared to pay less for the treatment than 
Simplyhealth had been prepared to pay. However, as the adjudicator has pointed out, the 
exact reasons  for the shortfall in Zs claim settlement are not known and if Mr F has 
concerns he really needs to raise these with Z rather than Simplyhealth.  As an aside, I note 
that Mr Fs treatment was carried out eight years ago and while  private medical costs have 
generally risen over that time there are particular operations for which  the complexity,  and 
consequently the fee limits which private  medical  insurers are prepared  to pay, may have 
significantly reduced. So there  is no guarantee  that just before it sold its business 
Simplyhealth would  have  been prepared to pay the same amount as it had paid previously 
for this type of treatment.
Mr F has also referred to the significant  increase in his premium  at the first renewal. I 
sympathise with him over this but I dont think Simplyhealth could have been expected to 
know what Z might  charge  in future. If Mr F thinks he has been  charged an unfair amount 
this again is something  he should  raise with Z rather than Simplyhealth.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN11595293Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1159529