K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&T)  lent to her irresponsibly.  
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  H&T provided to Miss H between 
February 2016 and September  2017.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 27/02/2016 £300 211 09/03/2016
2 27/02/2017 £300 207 12/09/2017
3 12/09/2017 £460 402 20/10/2018
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. H&T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss H could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN18377892And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Hs 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Miss H didnt disagree with our adjudicators  opinion  about loans 1 and 2. Because  of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing  disagreement about  these loans. So I wont  be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing relationship Miss H had with 
H&T. So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
By loan 3 Miss H had been borrowing from H&T for over 20 months. And she was committed 
to making repayments  for another 15 months. As far as I can see she used the amount she 
borrowed from loan 3 to repay the amounts she owed  for loan 2. 
So I think H&T couldve realised at that time that Miss H may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. H&T shouldve  also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Miss Hs true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to fully review Miss Hs financial situation before 
approving loan 3. And I think that H&T needed  to verify the information it found out where 
possible. This is to make  sure Miss H was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think H&T did this. So I need to think about what  H&T wouldve seen if it had carried  
out proportionate checks. 
Miss H has provided some information about  her financial  circumstances which  includes 
some bank statements  and a recent credit report.  I accept that this isnt exactly what  H&T 
wouldve seen at the time. But I think  it wouldve  found out similar information if it had made 
proportionate checks, so I think  its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Miss H was having problems managing  her money.  H&T wouldve found  out 
that Miss H was paying a significant amount to other creditors  such as personal  loans  and 
credit cards. And shed also been  repaying  a significant amount to five other short  term 
lenders on a regular basis.  
I think that H&T wouldve  found out this information if it had made  proportionate  checks.  And 
I think H&T wouldve seen Miss H wouldnt  have  been able repay loan 3 in a sustainable 
way. So I think that H&T shouldnt have given loan 3 to Miss H and I think  she lost out as a 
result of this. So Im upholding Miss Hs complaint  about loan 3. 
Ref: DRN18377893putting things right  what H&T needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss H paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Miss Hs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest. H&T must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Hs complaint.
Harvey & Thompson Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1837789