K821x#15complaint
Ms L says Western Circle Ltd, trading as Quick Loans Express, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loan Quick Loans Express provided to Ms L between  
May and August 2017. Ms Ls borrowing history is detailed below:
 
LoanDate Taken Amount  Instalments             Date
   RepaidRepayment  
Amount
1 24/05/2017 £200      2 14/05/2017 £128.94
2 28/06/2017 £200      2 15/08/2017 £124.96
3 15/08/2017 £400     4 24/08/2017 £160.86
An adjudicator reviewed Ms Ls complaint  and thought all three loans should be upheld.  He 
said this because looking at Ms Ls income  and expenditure  it didnt look as though Ms L 
would be able to sustainably repay  her loans as she had existing credit commitments. 
Quick Loans Express didnt agree with the adjudicators review. It said it carried  out 
proportionate checks and the figure the adjudicator  relied on was incorrect.  It said Ms L had 
adequate disposable income  to afford the loans. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case was referred to me  an ombudsman   for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending rules, guidance  and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Quick Loans Express needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out proportionate  checks to
make sure Ms L could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks  could take
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. But certain factors might point  to the fact that Quick  Loans Express  should
fairly and reasonably have done more  to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the
consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN13122032refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Loans  Express  was required to
establish whether  Ms L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint. I dont think  Ms L shouldve  been
given all three loans.  Ive reached this decision for slightly different reasons to the 
adjudicator and Ill explain them below.
Quick Loans Express says it carried out checks on Ms L when she applied  for her loans.
This included gathering  details of her income  and existing commitments.  It also says it
checked her credit report. Quick Loans  Express says based on this information  the loans 
were affordable for Ms L.
However, I think if Quick Loans Express had reacted  effectively to the information  it had
gathered it wouldve seen Ms L was having  issues managing  her finances. When Ms L 
applied for loan one she had around £600  due in existing credit  commitments. I think  based 
on this Quick Loans Express shouldve been  looking  to build a clearer  picture of Ms Ls 
finances. If it did, it wouldve seen  Ms L already had short  term lending  commitments with at 
least three other lenders which were still going to be running when loan one was taken. 
Ms L was also taking out her three loans in a relatively short period of time. I think based on 
the information available at the time Quick Loans  Express shouldve seen that Ms L was not 
in a position to sustainably repay any of the loans it provided to her. 
Quick Loans Express says it carried out robust checks and verified the information  Ms L 
provided. In particular it said that it contacted  Ms L about her existing credit commitments  
and she confirmed that four loans had been  repaid from her previous months salary. I agree 
that Quick Loans  Express  carried out checks, but I think more shouldve  been done with the 
information it had gathered.  Even  though Ms L had paid off some  of her credit  commitments 
the information revealed she had already been a user of short term loans.  And going forward  
Ms L still had outstanding  debts. The checks therefore revealed  important information about 
Ms Ls financial  situation. And once it had this information Quick Loans Express was under a 
duty to properly consider it before lending to Ms L.
Ref: DRN13122033Quick Loans Express says Ms L repaid  two of her loans early which demonstrates  that she 
was not in financial difficulties. However, I dont think  early repayment can be used to 
support this and often  repaying loans early  is an indicator or issues  with managing finances.
So it seems likely Ms L was relying on short term credit to cover ongoing  shortfalls  and 
further lending was not appropriate. Which means Quick Loans  Express shouldnt 
have given Ms L her loans and should  put things right.
putting things right  what Western  Circle  Ltd needs to do
Quick Loans Express shouldnt have given Ms L her three loans.  
A.)Quick Loans  Express should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Ms L 
towards interest, fees and charges on these loans.
B.)Quick Loans  Express should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual  
payments made by Ms L which  were  considered  as part of A, calculated from the 
date Ms L originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.)Quick Loans  Express should pay Ms L the total of A plus B.
D.)Quick Loans  Express should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on    
Ms Ls credit file in relation to the upheld loans.
*HMRC requires Quick  Loans Express to take off tax from this interest. If Ms L asks Quick Loans 
Express for a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off, it should provide this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms Ls complaint. Western Circle Ltd should  put 
things right for Ms L as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1312203