K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  about being asked to provide personal information  to HSBC Bank Plc in 
relation to his current account.
background
In early April 2018 HSBC wrote to Mr M to ask him to provide up-to-date information about 
his circumstances.   This was in relation  to HSBCs  safeguarding exercise  a series  of 
initiatives designed  to better  protect  their customers from fraud and financial crime.
As Mr M didnt respond to this letter, they wrote to him again in mid-April 2018.  In this letter, 
they explained the urgency of receiving Mr Ms updated information and that they may have  
to impose temporary  restrictions  on the account if they didnt  receive the information soon 
after. 
In late April 2018 HSBC  sent a final reminder and explained that if they didnt received his 
information within 15 days they would place a temporary restriction  on the account. This was 
to reduce his cash withdrawal limit to £20 a day. 
In May 2018  Mr M wrote to HSBC in response to their final reminder letter.  He said that hed 
called HSBC to let them know there  hadnt been  any material change  in his circumstances  
and so, there wasnt anything further  to inform HSBC of.
In response to this HSBC  said it wasnt sufficient for customers  to just advise that their 
circumstances were  the same. They said this didnt allow  them to verify the information  they 
already held or record any new information they hadnt previously asked for.
Mr M didnt  think  it was fair for HSBC to ask for this information so he brought the complaint 
to us. He told us he was unhappy with the nature of the letter  sent by HSBC about placing a 
temporary restriction on the account.  This was because he felt the restriction was excessive, 
and that he felt threatened and blackmailed  by HSBC to provide his personal information  
even though there hadnt been any change  in his circumstances.  He also said that HSBC  
were trying to find out his personal information so they could target the selling  of products 
and services to him. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She concluded, in summary, 
that it was reasonable for HSBC to ask Mr M for information, and to restrict his account when 
it didnt receive it.  
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  He remained of the opinion that hed been 
treated unfairly.  The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial  businesses, as well as other entities,  to have suitable systems in place for 
customer identification. This applies to both new and existing relationships.
Ref: DRN19946772HSBC contacted Mr M as he was an existing customer of theirs. To be able to meet their 
legal requirements  they asked  Mr M to provide up-to-date personal  information. The account  
terms and conditions allowed HSBC  to do this. They also allowed - if the information isnt 
given - for Mr M not being able to carry on doing  some or all of his banking with HSBC. So I 
think it was reasonable  for HSBC to ask Mr M for personal information. And I think it was 
reasonable for it to restrict his account when it didnt receive it.
Ive looked at the three letters HSBC sent Mr M in April 2018. The first letter  sets out why 
HSBC needed  Mr Ms updated  personal  information. The second  letter  reiterated  what  they 
needed and set out what the implications would be if Mr M didnt provide this information. 
The final letter explained  the temporary restriction they were going  to place on the account 
and the reasons why. The letters also signposted  him to further information about HSBCs 
safeguarding exercise. So Im satisfied that HSBC  set out what was needed, why it was 
needed, and by when. And Im satisfied that HSBC made the implications clear if Mr M didnt 
provide the up-to-date information.  
Mr M says he felt the letters were threatening  in particular when HSBC said they would 
reduce his cash withdrawal limit. Mr M feels this is blackmail. But having  read the letters I 
dont think they were threatening. And as Ive said, I think it was reasonable for HSBC  to 
restrict his account  if they didnt  receive a response. 
Ive looked at the information HSBC asked Mr M to provide. This included  things like his 
name, date of birth, address, nationality, employment and intended account use. I think  this 
was information  relevant  to a current account provider. So I think that the information HSBC 
were asking for was reasonable. Mr M says he thinks  this information was for marketing 
purposes. But as Im satisfied it was for HSBCs  safeguarding exercise.
Mr M called to tell HSBC that his circumstances hadnt changed and that he didnt believe 
the information he was being asked for was necessary. HSBC has said they wanted the 
information regardless so it could verify  the information they already held and record any 
new information they hadnt previously  asked for. I think this was reasonable.
Overall, for the reasons  Ive explained,  I dont think HSBC have done anything  wrong. Mr M 
may want to consider  his banking arrangements if he hasnt yet provided  his up-to-date 
information.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019..
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1994677