K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mrs L says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs L applied for her card online.  From what we know of the sales  process at the time, Mrs L 
wouldve been asked  whether she wanted PPI during her application. And PPI wouldve only 
been added  to her account if shed answered  that she wanted it. So I think  Barclays  made 
clear that Mrs L didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for 
her. But Barclays did have to make  sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide  if 
the PPI was right for her.
At the time of the sale Mrs L had an existing medical  condition  and she wouldnt have been 
able to claim on the policy for this. From what shes told us, from time to time Mrs L had days 
off work because of her condition before it was diagnosed. But with the treatment she has 
received since then, her condition no longer  affects  her daily life. And shed been  having that 
treatment for around ten years by the time of the sale. So by that time, from what I have,  
Mrs Ls condition had responded  to treatment, hadnt affected her ability to work for many 
years and I dont think she wouldve thought  it likely to significantly affect her ability to work 
in future. And Mrs L wasnt in any other way affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover, from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. So it looks  like the cover 
would likely  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. And Mrs L chose to take the 
cover  so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.
Also Mrs L would only receive full pay from her employer  for six months  if she were too sick 
to work, with just statutory  sick pay after that. And shes told us she didnt  have savings or 
anything else to help pay her credit card if she were too sick to work. For a successful 
sickness claim the PPI would pay out for up to twelve months  and on top of Mrs Ls work 
benefits. It also had unemployment cover. Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mrs L 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But, taking everything into account, I 
dont think better information  would have  changed Mrs Ls decision to take the PPI.
What Ive said above means Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs L. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs L, 
that was unfair.
Ref: DRN15720482To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all of Mrs Ls points,  including what  shes said about the likelihood of her 
being affected by and having to take time off work  for her existing medical condition. But, 
taking into account  what Ive already said above,  I dont think better  information  wouldve 
changed Mrs Ls decision to take out the policy. So, for the reasons Ive already given, these 
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Mrs L any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1572048