K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that his broker, Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance  Brokers  Limited  (Gallagher), 
misled him by failing  to seek  competitive  commercial  property insurance quotes from a range 
of insurers and instead renewed  his business annually with just the one insurer. 
background
Mr H first used Gallaghers services as a broker in 2002 to insure his two commercial 
properties. The two policies were renewed  each year until 2016  with Gallagher informing   
Mr H that it had reviewed a panel  of insurers to find the most suitable  and competitively 
priced cover. During this period the premiums on both policies increased significantly. When  
deciding to renew in 2016  Mr H discovered that Gallagher hadnt been comparing  quotes 
from different insurers to find him the best deal but had been placing his insurance  with the 
same insurer  each  year. So Mr H reviewed the market himself  and got quotes  that cost 
significantly less than those hed been  offered by Gallagher at renewal.
 
Mr H complained to Gallagher. He said he felt misled about the service Gallagher  said it was 
providing to him. He said he thought  itd been  reviewing the market to find him a policy  that 
was both competitive  and suitable but instead  it had insured  his properties with the same  
insurer year after year. He thought Gallagher was acting more  as an agent than a broker. He 
said he thought  hed suffered a financial loss as a result and asked Gallagher to make him a 
partial refund.  Mr H said that if hed known Gallagher was only approaching a single insurer 
each year then he wouldve checked the market himself. 
Gallagher said that it was sorry that its wording about the number of insurers  wasnt  clearer  
but that whilst  Mr H may well have been  able to secure cheaper cover in 2016 there was no 
guarantee he couldve done so in previous years. So it said it wouldnt be refunding  any of 
his premiums. 
Mr H complained to this service. Our adjudicator investigated the complaint and 
recommended that it was upheld. He thought that the information given to Mr H by Gallagher 
was misleading  as it gave a false  impression  that at least a limited section of the market had 
been reviewed  to ensure the premiums  were competitive. But as only one price  from one 
insurer (for which it had delegated authority) was ever obtained  he didnt see how Gallagher 
could give Mr H such an assurance. He thought that Gallagher wasnt providing the service 
its documentation claimed it was. 
Our adjudicator thought this was unfair  and that Mr H should be compensated for the loss he 
suffered. He recommended that Gallagher pay Mr H compensation equal to 40% of the total 
premiums hed paid since 2007 (the point at which  the premiums began  to rise significantly) 
together with interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date each 
premium was paid to the date of settlement. 
Mr H replied to say that he thought our adjudicators findings were  fair. Gallagher replied to 
say that Mr H had said in 2009 that he would shop around for future renewals so the fact he 
didnt do so until 2016 wasnt something  it should  be held accountable for. 
In response, our adjudicator said Gallagher  had misled Mr H about  the service  itd provided. 
He said that its decision  to place the insurance year after year with the same  insurer was 
based on its relationship with that insurer rather than on suitability or price competitiveness.  
He said it was Gallaghers failure to make this clearer to Mr H earlier  which meant he didnt 
Ref: DRN13342122search the market  until 2016 and, when he did, he made significant savings. So he thought  
that if Mr H had been aware of the true situation earlier he would have sought cover  
elsewhere. Our adjudicator said that Mr H lost out financially  right up to 2016 - as a result  
of the misleading  information and false reassurances  (that his premiums  were competitive) 
Gallagher gave  to him.
Gallagher responded to say that in recent years itd improved and updated its customer 
communications and that its current documentation was much  clearer thereby allowing its 
customers to make  more informed decisions. It said it didnt agree with our adjudicators 
basis for calculating  compensation. It said it was relevant whether Mr Hs new policies 
provided comparable  cover as they clearly impacted whether the price  could be meaningfully 
compared across the policies. It said it disagreed  that the policy  documentation  itd provided 
to Mr H had encouraged a lack of any other  consideration  by him. Gallagher said Mr H 
couldve discussed with it whether his cover met his needs at any time but hed chosen not 
to. It asked our adjudicator to obtain a copy of Mr Hs new policies and to reconsider his 
findings. 
Our adjudicator remained of the view that whether or not the policies  were  comparable 
wasnt relevant because it was the fact Gallagher  misled Mr H that caused  him the loss. 
Gallagher said it agreed its documentation  had been  misleading  (which was something  itd 
subsequently addressed) and that the complaint should be upheld. But it said it disagreed 
with the way compensation was calculated. It reiterated that the comparability of cover  was 
relevant. Our adjudicator  sent copies of Mr Hs new policy documents to Gallaghers  and 
invited it to comment. 
The complaint was passed  to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think this complaint should be upheld; Ill 
explain why. 
Its no longer disputed that the documentation provided by Gallagher  to Mr H was 
misleading. It gave him false assurances that his cover was competitively priced, suitable for 
his needs and obtained from having  approached a number of insurers.  In fact, from 2002, 
Gallagher placed Mr Hs cover with one insurer  and in 2007 it transferred it to another, where  
it remained until 2016. Its clear  from the evidence that, aside from 2007 (when two quotes 
were obtained), alternative quotes  were never  sought. But thats not what  Gallagher led Mr H 
to believe. 
To its credit, Gallagher has admitted its error and has taken steps to improve its 
communications. Also to its credit is that it agrees that this complaint should  be upheld.  
What Gallagher has disputed is the way in which the proposed compensation should be 
calculated. It was of the view that the type and extent of cover  Mr H obtained in 2016  was 
relevant to how compensation should be calculated. It asked our adjudicator to obtain  from 
Mr H, copies of the replacement policies so it could  compare the cover and provide 
comment. Our adjudicator forwarded copies  to Gallagher but no comment was received.  
Ref: DRN13342123I dont think the comparability of cover is relevant to how compensation is calculated. I say 
this because its clear Gallagher  misled  Mr H about  the nature of the service  it was providing 
to him. Its decision to use the two insurers it did appears to have been based  on the nature 
of its relationship with those insurers  rather than on the suitability of the policy or any price 
competitiveness. 
I can see that when  Mr H reviewed the market  he made significant  savings. Whether  or not 
the two replacement policies were directly  comparable  to the ones that Gallagher had 
arranged, Mr H decided the new policies hed found were more suitable  for his needs  and he 
chose to take them out. So its reasonable to assume that if Mr H had been aware that 
Gallagher wasnt providing the service it claimed it was then he would  have searched  the 
market himself much sooner. I think Mr H was treated unfairly  as he lost out financially as a 
result of the misleading  information given to him by Gallagher.
Im unable to agree  with Gallagher  that it shouldnt be held accountable for the fact it wasnt 
until 2016 that Mr H searched the market. The reason he didnt do so at an earlier date was 
because he was persuaded  by what Gallagher  told him that there was no need  to check  the 
market  he thought Gallagher was doing it for him. Had Gallagher been clear about  the 
exact nature  of the service  it was providing to Mr H, then I would likely be reaching  a very 
different decision.  But it didnt.  He was unaware that no review of the market  had taken 
place. Given that as soon as he became aware he searched the market himself, obtained a 
cheaper price and moved his business, I think its reasonable  to think  he wouldve done so 
sooner if only hed known.
The only evidence available about the kind of savings Mr H could make  was when he found  
the replacement  (much cheaper) policies  in 2016.  He found suitable cover  at a substantially  
lower price.  Ive looked at the premiums Mr H was charged for the two policies for the years 
he was with Gallagher. Its likely that, in the early days, the premiums  were competitive. I 
can see that they didnt start to rise too significantly until 2007.  So I think  this is a reasonable 
point to think that Mr H started to lose out financially as a result  of the false  information he 
was receiving. 
Calculating compensation in cases like this is far from formulaic as there is no set price  for 
insurance. The only evidence available about  the kind of savings Mr H could  make  comes 
from the replacement  cover he obtained in 2016.  Gallagher quoted  his two renewals at 
£1491.28 and £1,459.67  but Mr H got replacement  cover at £496.01 and £647.87 
respectively. Overall, Mr H made a £1,807.02  saving in 2016 which  equates to about  60% of 
the total renewal  price  quoted by Gallagher. 
But I dont think it would  be fair to ask Gallagher  to pay compensation to Mr H which 
equalled 60% of the premiums hed paid since  2007.  Thats  because policies often attract 
introductory discounts and because the policies Gallagher arranged were cheaper  in 
previous years. So its unlikely Mr H wouldve  made a 60% saving  every  year from 2007 
onwards. Taking  everything into account I think compensation equal  to 40% of the premiums 
Mr H paid Gallagher from 2007 onwards would be fair in all the circumstances. As Mr H has 
been without this money for a number  of  years it is only fair that interest  (at our usual  rates) 
is added  to each  of the returned proportions of the premiums from the date they were  
originally paid by Mr H to the date settlement  is made by Gallagher. 
Ref: DRN13342124my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Arthur  J. Gallagher  Insurance 
Brokers Limited to do the following:- 
To pay Mr H compensation  equal  to 40% of the total premiums  he paid on his two 
policies from the 2007 renewal onwards;
Add interest* to each  premium repaid  at this services usual rate of 8% per year from 
the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
*If Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr H  how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1334212