K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the increasing  cost of their Saga  Services  Limited home  
insurance policy and that a minor  subsidence  claim they made in 2005  remains recorded  
against their claims history. 
background
Mr and Mrs B took out home insurance  with Saga in 2000. In 2005 they made a claim under 
their policy after finding some cracking  on the external walls of their home. The claim was 
accepted and the cause  identified as roots from apple trees  in their garden.  The trees were 
removed and superstructure repairs  completed.  The policy  continued to renew annually  until 
2014. 
In the years  prior to 2014, Mr and Mrs B noticed that their premium was increasing annually 
and was higher  than owners of some  similar properties. So Mr and Mrs B complained  to 
Saga about  the increase  in premiums on the policies Saga had been obtaining for them over 
the last few years. They said and that they werent able to obtain  cover with alternative  
insurers because Saga had recorded the subsidence claim on their claims  history. They said 
the subsidence claim had been  a minor one yet they were being  penalised annually with 
premium increases. They said Saga should take into account the severity of the subsidence  
claim and categorise it in the way the structural engineer  who visited their home  to assess 
the damage had done. 
Saga said it couldnt  amend Mr and Mrs Bs claims  history  because there had actually  been  
a claim and it needed to be recorded. With reference to their premiums, it said it had asked 
their underwriter to determine if their premiums had been correctly calculated. The 
underwriter said it had been calculating their premium correctly. Saga said, despite this and 
because the damage sustained  was relatively minor, it would, as a gesture of goodwill, 
refund the difference theyd paid between the 2010  premium and each years premium 
thereafter. That came to £402.29. It said that at present no scale to classify  the severity  of 
the damage existed  but that it had noted  Mr and Mrs Bs comments on the matter. 
In 2015, unhappy with the outcome of Sagas investigation, Mr and Mrs B complained to this 
service. They said that although theyd received a cheque from Saga which  addressed the 
increase in the previous  4 years premiums that didnt address the increasing premiums they 
faced going forward  and the fact they couldnt  get cover elsewhere because of the claim on 
their record.  Our adjudicator investigated  the complaint but didnt think that Saga had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators findings.  They  said that whilst other insurers  
they had approached had indicated they may consider taking them on, they had all said they 
had required  a certificate of structural adequacy.  Mr and Mrs B had said that Saga hadnt 
provided them with one when their claim  was concluded.  
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was passed to another one of our adjudicators who asked  Saga  
for some more information. Having considered what Saga had provided she also thought the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. Im very sorry that Mr and Mrs B have had to wait so long for 
a decision on this complaint. It has been included in a review  that this service has been 
doing on pricing in the insurance industry  more generally. And its only recently that weve  
been in a position to apply our learning from that review and to start issuing  decisions.  
Ref: DRN12608432Our adjudicator thought the financial compensation that Saga had offered Mr and Mrs B was 
fair. She also said that Saga  had told us that the subsidence claim hadnt been impacting 
their premium so wasnt the cause  of the increase in price theyd been experiencing. Finally  
she said she appreciated that Mr and Mrs Bs premiums had increased and that theyd had 
to reduce cover in order to bring  them  down.  But she said,  for the most part, their premiums 
had stayed between  £400-£500 and, where they had increased beyond this, theyd  been  
discounted back down  again. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators findings.  They  said the only reason their 
premiums were kept to an affordable level was because they reduced the amount of cover  
they had each year, not because of any discount  passed on to them by Saga. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, I dont  think their complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain 
why.
In the years  after Mr and Mrs Bs subsidence claim,  the renewal premiums obtained for them 
by Saga were  as follows: 
Cover Start Date Discount TOTAL
27/07/2005  £410.95 (buildings, contents and home emergency)
15/07/2006  £438.42
15/07/2007  £519.60
15/07/2008  £394.79
15/07/2009 -£62.00 £446.46 (£508.46  before discount)
15/07/2010  £403.92 (home emergency  cover removed)
15/07/2011 -£70.00 £358.47* (buildings only cover from this point)
15/07/2012 -£65.00 £470.60 (£535.60  before discount)
15/07/2013  £554.58
15/07/2014  £582.51
*(Originally £632.04 reduced  to £428.47 before discount applied).
Renewal was offered in 2015 but not taken up as Mr and Mrs B found cheaper cover with 
another provider.
Except for the 2007 renewal, Mr and Mrs Bs premium stayed relatively steady until the later 
years where it increased more. There was a claim for damage to underground pipes in 
2013/2014 that influenced the subsequent renewal premiums. Thats to be expected  as 
claims will generally cause premiums  to rise. Saga wouldve taken this into account when it 
was obtaining  Mr and Mrs Bs annual renewal quotes. 
Mr and Mrs B also made a claim for subsidence damage in 2005  and they think  that this 
unfairly caused their premium to increase. But Saga has told us that the claim didnt  impact  
their premium or contribute  to any price increase. And, aside from the 2007 renewal, the 
premiums charged in the 5 years or so that followed the making of that claim would 
reasonably indicate this to be true. The pattern  of renewals  doesnt show  a year- on-year 
Ref: DRN12608433increase in premium.  I can see that where  the price has increased it has frequently  been 
discounted again to bring it closer to the price charged the previous year.  
And it wouldnt be fair for me to ignore that Saga made Mr and Mrs B a goodwill offer of 
£402.29. That represented the difference between  what theyd paid for their buildings  
insurance cover at the 2010 renewal and the renewal premiums  for the subsequent years.  I 
think thats fair. Its also in line with awards weve made where financial businesses have 
continued renewing policies and increasing premiums despite  customers failing to engage 
with them.  In those  circumstances we say that businesses should take greater care to 
ensure their customers arent being financially disadvantaged, perhaps because they are 
potentially vulnerable. 
But thats not what happened here. Mr and Mrs B have engaged with the renewal process 
and the price hasnt  increased year-on-year.  So I think  that the offer to refund the difference 
between what Mr and Mrs B paid in 2011 onwards and the 2010  premium they were charged 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
Ive thought too about Mr and Mrs Bs comments about the fact that from 2011 the premiums 
charged were for buildings cover only and that they went elsewhere for their contents cover.  
So I appreciate that the figures  Ive cited above  from 2011  are in relation  to the price 
charged by Saga for buildings  cover  only and that there was a contents premium  from 
another insurer that pushed up the overall total of their buildings  and contents cover. 
But Mr and Mrs B were  always  going to need  (and pay for) contents cover. And Saga has 
paid them a sum equivalent to what they paid over and above the 2010 renewal premium in 
the years  that followed. This means that their premium (for buildings  cover at least)  
remained the same from 2010  onwards. And its worth stating that the buildings and contents 
premium charged in 2010 (albeit with home emergency cover  removed)  was actually £7 less 
than it was when  the policy first started - a decade earlier. 
I appreciate that  in terms of subsidence  the claim  made by Mr and Mrs B was minor. 
Their comment about the need for insurers to include a severity scale for such  claims isnt 
without merit. But I cant require Saga (or the underwriter)  to take such a step.  Thats 
because we arent the industry regulator. We can only look at individual  consumer  
complaints to see if financial businesses have treated  their customers  fairly and reasonably. 
And I have  to say that in this case,  I think Saga has. 
There was a claim made against the policy so Saga rightly recorded  it against  Mr and Mrs B. 
That wasnt  an unfair action to take and I cant reasonably require it to remove  it. But I can 
see that the claim didnt  impact Mr and Mrs Bs premium and that they have now secured 
cover with an alternative insurer, despite having  to declare the claim. Once a property 
suffers from subsidence, it is something  that most insurers will want  to know about before 
taking the risk on. That is regardless of how minor  the claim may have been. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Bs comments about  the way their underground pipes claim was 
handled in 2013. Claims are made  to the insurer (underwriter) so any complaint about the 
way a claim is handled or settled needs to be directed in the first instance to the insurer  on 
risk at the time. I also note that, in any event, this particular complaint has only recently been 
made by Mr and Mrs B and isnt something that Saga (or the insurer)  has had the 
opportunity to look into. 
Ref: DRN12608434my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1260843