K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Mrs H have complained about  repairs carried out to their property by National 
House-Building Council (NHBC) under  their building warranty.
background
Mr S and Mrs H bought a new-build house in 2009.  After they made  a claim to NHBC for 
defects in their roof, NHBC carried out some  repairs.
In 2016 NHBC repaired  two slipped roof slates.  Mr S and Mrs H went back  to NHBC in 2017  
because another  slate  had slipped.  They think this is because NHBC hadnt  carried  out a 
proper repair  previously.
NHBC said it couldnt be sure that the slate in question had slipped as a result of its 
contractor not repairing  it properly. But it offered to pay Mr S and Mrs H £411,  being the 
amount it would have  cost NHBC to repair it.
Mr S and Mrs H didnt  accept this offer. They were concerned  that if they arranged the repair 
themselves and further damage appeared, it would be unclear whod be responsible.
Mr S and Mrs H also complained about  the state of their front paving  which  had previously 
been repaired by NHBC. Its investigator said that areas of mortar  were starting to break up 
and buckle. NHBC said it wasnt liable  for this as it was a result  of the surrounding ground 
freezing and thawing. It thought this was a maintenance issue.
Mr S and Mrs H want NHBC to replace the slipped roof slate and repair the paving.  They  
also think NHBC should pay for an independent  surveyor to assess the roof and then 
carry out any repairs recommended  by the surveyor.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. An 
extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
I need  to decide  whether  the slate thats slipped was previously repaired by NHBC and, if 
so, whether its likely  the roof slate has slipped because of a poor method of fixing by 
NHBCs contractor.
NHBC said:
It is clear  that the broken  slate has been displaced at some point previously as there is 
evidence of glue where this has been  re-fixed around the central hole  However  it is 
difficult to ascertain exactly when this slate was worked on, it may have been re-fixed during 
the original construction of the roof or during remedial work carried out by NHBC.
Mr S and Mrs H say that NHBC replaced  over one hundred  slates  using a single fixing 
method. This involved punching a new single hole in the centre of the slate  whereas 
originally they were attached with a double  fixing.  Since the slate which has slipped has a 
central hole and thats how NHBCs contractor carried out a previous repair,  I think  its more  
likely than not that this slate  has previously been repaired by NHBC.
NHBC suggested that the slates  might  have become loose and broken during  bad weather.  I 
think this is just speculation. Theres no evidence that the property  has suffered from storm 
damage. NHBC also said it couldnt  confirm with any certainty how the damage occurred. 
Since Im of the view that this slate was previously repaired by NHBC,  I think its likely that 
Ref: DRN11179942the slate became  loose  because NHBC didnt carry out a lasting or effective repair  in respect 
of it.
NHBC has offered to pay what  it would have cost it to replace the slipped  slate. The main 
reason Mr S and Mrs H have objected to the offer is that they want to be able to go back to 
NHBC if they have any more problems with the roof and to avoid NHBC denying liability in 
that situation  on the basis that theyve had works done that have contributed to the problem. 
I appreciate that concern because a number  of different contractors have been working on 
the roof since the property was built and when a problem emerged,  there  was an issue 
about whether  the contractor had been working on the section of the roof in question.  In 
view of the history to date it seems  to me quite likely that there might be more problems in 
future and so in order to treat Mr S and Mrs H fairly, NHBC should carry out the repair  itself.
I might  consider it reasonable to require NHBC to instruct  an independent surveyor to 
assess the condition  of Mr S and Mrs Hs roof if there was evidence of defects or problems 
and the parties  didnt  agree on what had caused  them. But theres  nothing  to show at this 
stage that theres  anything wrong  with Mr S and Mrs Hs roof apart  from one slipped slate. 
So there doesnt seem to me any justification to make NHBC have a roof survey carried out 
by an independent surveyor.
With regard to the path I understand this was investigated previously  by NHBC. It found  
several loose paving  slabs which hadnt been  fitted on the correct  bedding mix. It completed 
remedial works in 2015. When  an insurer does  a repair it has to be long-lasting and durable. 
Thats an implied  term of the repair contract. If the repair fails, its only at that point it can be 
considered as to whether  the repair had been  long-lasting and durable or not as many 
factors will impact that decision.
For me to find in Mr S and Mrs Hs favour on this point Id need to be satisfied that their 
version of events is more  likely to be correct than NHBCs version. They  say that faults 
appeared in the path not long after the repair. Theyve sent photos  which  show  how the 
mortar pointing to the path is breaking  up into small pieces  instead  of continuous lines.  
NHBC says other sections of path havent been  affected and the mortar  might be breaking  
up due to effect of weather. I accept that paving  slabs will move around over time in 
response to all sorts of influences  including  expanding and contracting  due to weather 
conditions. But I dont think NHBC can be said to have  carried out a lasting repair if faults  
appeared so quickly   in this case almost immediately according to Mr S and Mrs H and in 
any event within three  years. In order to treat Mr S and Mrs H fairly I think  NHBC should 
carry out a lasting repair to the section of path which it repaired previously.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr S and Mrs H accepted my provisional decision.  In summary NHBC said:
regarding  the roof slate  it wasnt possible to say with absolute  certainty  that thered been 
a failed repair.  It didnt  think  it should be liable to repair it based on the possibility (as 
opposed to evidence)  that thered been a failed  repair.
there also wasnt  any evidence of a failed  repair to the path.
it should be allowed  to pay the cost of the repairs as opposed to carrying out the works  
since the warranty  gives  NHBC  that option.
Ref: DRN11179943my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that its not possible to be completely sure that NHBC has carried  out a failed repair  
to the roof slate  in question and the path. But this service makes decisions based on what  
we think is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of each case.  Ive weighed up 
all the relevant facts  and evidence before - deciding on the balance  of probability  what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. For the reasons  explained above  I think its likely that 
NHBC has previously  repaired  the slipped roof slate and its repairs  to that and the path have 
failed. 
I also agree  that under  the warranty NHBC can choose how to go about settling a claim  by 
carrying out the repairs or making  a cash settlement.  But in this case  things have moved on 
from that point. NHBC has settled the claims by carrying out repairs  and it appears they 
werent lasting and effective. I dont  think  its fair for NHBC to step back  now and leave Mr S 
and Mrs H to sort out the problems, even if its at NHBCs  expense.  Thats because,  in the 
light of the history of this claim  and particularly in the case  of the roof, I can understand Mr S 
and Mrs Hs concern that if there are any further  problems, it may not be clear whos 
responsible. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require National House-Building  Council to replace Mr S 
and Mrs Hs slipped roof slate and repair the section  of path which  it repaired previously.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1117994