K820x#14complaint
O, a limited company,  has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked their account and 
took a while  to release the remaining funds. Barclays  then closed Os account. Barclays  also 
lodged fraud-related markers following  what theyd  discovered.
Mr and Mrs A are directors of O. Mrs A has represented O in this complaint.
background
O held a business current account  with Barclays. On 16 May 2018  O received  £98,700  from 
a business transaction. Three payments totalling £78,000 were paid to another recipient 
(who Ill call J). £2,700 was paid to another limited company,  E. E shares  directors with O. A 
day later a further £7,240 was also paid to J.
Barclays were  notified  by the person  who paid these funds  to O theyd been the victim of a 
scam. Barclays  then took back money  that had been  paid to E, who also held accounts with 
Barclays.
After blocking Os account and carrying out a review,  Barclays decided to close  Os account.  
They confirmed this in a letter. They also took a decision to lodge CIFAS markers for misuse  
of funds. Barclays did apologise for the delay in carrying out their review of what  happened. 
They offered  O £250.
Mrs A was unhappy with how O was treated.  She brought  Os complaint  to the ombudsman 
service. She also felt the CIFAS markers should  be removed.  
This complaint has been reviewed by two adjudicators. Once in October 2018 and secondly 
in July 2019. Latterly our adjudicator confirmed she didnt think Barclays had done anything  
wrong. When Barclays had been notified that O had received fraudulent  funds, they blocked 
the account. After  carrying out a review they decided to close the account. Our adjudicator  
had seen the evidence Barclays had considered. She could see why they believed  O had 
received money  fraudulently. Shed also considered the CIFAS  markers.  She felt Barclays  
had enough evidence to make a formal complaint to the police or another  law enforcement 
agency so she didnt agree the markers should  be removed.
Our adjudicator noted O had got hold of the remaining funds that had been kept by Barclays  
when they closed the account. 
Mrs A asked an ombudsman to review Os complaint.
This service has also considered complaints  Mrs A brought in a personal capacity and on 
behalf of E.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our adjudicators view of 23 July 2019. This also covered the 
Ref: DRN18150142evidence Mrs A had given us on Os behalf. I dont intend to repeat everything that was said 
there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint thoroughly.
the fraudulent  payment of £98,700
Ive seen the evidence Barclays considered and what they received to show this payment 
was fraudulent. Barclays has asked us not to share this information  because of its 
confidential nature.  Based  on this evidence  Im satisfied O received fraudulent funds.
Mrs A believes shes  given  us evidence to show why O was receiving this money. This 
includes an invoice showing us what was supplied  to the company that supposedly sent the 
funds (who Ill call P). Weve pointed out to Mrs A that there  are a number of discrepancies  
with this invoice.  Having reviewed this I dont  find it a genuine  invoice either. It looks very 
much as if its been put together after the event. The business location, for example, isnt 
actually a business address but a residential one.
Mrs A believes O are being victimised and wonders  why they shouldnt believe whats on the 
invoice. But I have  to wonder why O would agree to provide unspecified  services  to P and 
then pass this money immediately to J.
Theres no dispute as soon as O received this money, they transferred a large part of it to J 
on 16 and 17 May.  Like our adjudicator, Ive checked what  I can about J. Theres  no existing 
company according  to UK-based records other than what  may have been a shell company 
set up purely to receive funds. I can also see from Os statements payments had been made 
to J the week before  as well. These  transfers  were made after O received a payment of 
more than £43,000.
Mrs A has told us O was acting on Ps instruction in sending money to J. Ive not seen a 
copy of this. I find it unbelievable that nearly  £100,000 of business is done   across borders 
and continents  without  further evidence of what was being provided  and on what basis. 
Good corporate  governance (and the tax authorities) would require this Im sure.
Its also clear  that what evidence Mrs A has provided doesnt match with the money received 
and the transfers  O then made. So for example shed  told us someone connected with P 
sent the funds.  But investigation  has shown there  is no connection between P and that 
individual. The figure on the invoice doesnt match what either O received or then sent to J.
Ive also seen, when  considering Es complaint, that there is nothing to indicate E provided O 
with any service either.
Overall I can see why Barclays thought  the funds were fraudulent  and took action to close 
Os account.
CIFAS markers
The test to apply  CIFAS  markers is whether Barclays had reasonable grounds that a 
financial crime was being committed. So much so that they could have made a case  to the 
police or another law enforcement agency.  
Im afraid to confirm to Mrs A that I wont be asking Barclays  to remove  these markers  as I 
think the evidence  they had met that test. In fact Im surprised that Barclays   based on the 
money that was involved here  didnt refer this to the police.
Ref: DRN18150143Overall I wont  be asking  Barclays to do anything else as Ive not seen any evidence  they did 
anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Os complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1815014