K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about AXA Insurance UK Plcs settlement of her contents insurance  claim 
for items of lost jewellery. 
background
Ms B was packing  for her holiday when she noticed that 4 items of her jewellery were 
missing from the drawer in which she kept them. She thought she mayve inadvertently 
thrown them away. She made a claim under her home insurance for the lost items in April 
2018. 
AXA appointed its jewellery validation experts  to validate the claim. A statement was taken 
from Ms B and proof of ownership and proof  of purchase requested because the value of the 
lost items was quite  high.  Ms B produced  a valuation from 1988 and some  old photographs 
but she had no receipts  for three out of the four items (collectively valued in excess  of 
£17,000). AXA agreed  to pay for the only item it was satisfied Ms B had proved ownership 
for. 
Unhappy with AXAs claims  decision,  Ms B complained. AXA looked into Ms Cs complaint 
but didnt change its mind. It referred to the policy terms that said for items valued  over 
£2,500 proof  of ownership and value  pre-dating the loss was required. It said if such  
information couldnt be produced then the policy terms allowed it to either reduce or refuse to 
pay the claim. It said that if Ms B was able to provide  further substantiation then it would 
happily review it. 
Ms B then complained to this service. Our investigator looked into her complaint but didnt 
recommend that it was upheld. He didnt think AXA had treated her unfairly when looking 
into her claim. Ms B disagreed. She said shed  produced a valuation from 1988 for the items 
she was claiming for which she said was proof  she owned the items. She said that at no time 
had she been  told that she needed to update the valuation of her jewellery. She also said it 
wasnt fair to expect her to have receipts for the three items in dispute  because they had all 
been purchased  in the Far East in the 1980s. 
Our investigator looked again at Ms Cs complaint but wasnt  persuaded to change his mind. 
He said the policy terms were clear about the need to specify  high value items on the policy 
schedule. And he said they also stated that jewellery  values were likely to change  
considerably over time so it was recommended that the values of such items were checked 
regularly (at least every  two years)  in order to ensure full protection.  
Ms B said she was claiming for the items as valued in 1988  so would happily accept the 
single item policy  limit of £2000 for each of the three items.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to assess Ms Cs claim.  I have to decide whether AXA has treated her fairly 
in the way its applied the policy  terms and I have to say that I think  it has. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN16855112Ms B is claiming for the accidental loss of 4 high value jewellery items none of which were 
specified on her policy  schedule. The policy limit for unspecified personal possessions  is 
£2,000. Those with a greater value are meant  to be specified on the policy. The only high 
value item Ms B specified was a watch valued at £4,500. 
When presented with a claim, the insurer has the right to validate  it against the policy  terms. 
I can see that AXA instructed its jewellery experts and that Ms B provided  them  with a copy  
of a valuation  from 1988 that included a number of items. Unfortunately neither her name or 
the name of the jeweller appeared  on that valuation. 
AXAs experts assessed from the description  on the valuation that the items claimed were of 
high value  and well in excess of the single item limit. As such they should have been 
specified on the policy schedule. As they werent, I dont think it was unreasonable that AXA 
required more proof of ownership  than a valuation from 1988  that provided  no link to Ms B 
and some old photographs. I can see that Ms B had a receipt for item 4 and that AXA was 
happy to accept this as proof of ownership  so it settled this aspect of her claim. 
I cant ignore either that the policy terms state that for items valued over £2,500  proof of 
ownership and value predating the loss is required  and if it cant be provided then the terms 
permit AXA to choose whether to reduce or refuse  to pay the claim. So whilst it isnt 
unreasonable that Ms B may no longer have receipts for items purchased in the 1980s I 
dont think its unreasonable, given the items value, that AXA required some proof of 
ownership and value that was more recent than 1988. 
Ms B said she hadnt obtained a more recent valuation because she hadnt expected to lose 
the jewellery and because  jewellers  charged  to provide valuations.  She also said no-one  told 
her she needed  to. But the policy is clear  about  a policyholders responsibilities towards 
providing valuations  for high value items.  So I dont  think AXA has unreasonably requested 
more information  from Ms C. Nor do I think it unfairly  applied  the policy  terms to decline part 
of Ms Cs claim.  I think they are clear that claims for high value items may be declined 
without proof  of ownership and value.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 17 April 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1685511