K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Firstplus Financial Group Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr and Mrs B took out in 2004 
alongside a loan.
The PPI ended in March 2009,  when  cashback  (in the form of a cheque  for £11,960.85) was 
sent to Mr and Mrs B. The cashback was essentially a refund of the PPI premium less 
Insurance Premium Tax (the tax was £284.15). This means the outstanding amount  Mr and 
Mrs B could claim, if their PPI was mis-sold, would be an amount equal to the Insurance  
Premium Tax plus any loan interest they paid on the overall premium.
Firstplus says it didnt  sell the PPI, because the loan and PPI were sold by Freedom
Finance plc. But in July 2018 Firstplus did refund the remaining commission  and profit share  
that was more than 50% of the premium  because Firstplus didnt tell Mr and Mrs B about  
this at the time of sale.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Firstplus was responsible for the sale,  and that its refund of the 
high level of commission and profit  share (which was over 50% of the premium) was fair. Mr 
and Mrs B disagree, so Ive been asked to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision giving Mr and Mrs B and Firstplus a chance  to respond.  I said 
I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint, because I didnt think  Firstplus was responsible for 
selling the PPI. 
my provisional findings
These findings are taken  from my provisional decision.  
I provisionally found that Firstplus didnt sell the PPI  and therefore didnt mis-sell it. And 
that Firstplus approach to the high level of commission and profit share  was fair. 
There was no direct contact between Mr and Mrs B and Firstplus  before they made the 
decision to apply for the loan and PPI. While the credit  agreement mentioned Firstplus (as 
the lender), it was sent to Mr and Mrs B by their credit broker  - Company A.
Im not persuaded that Firstplus, by including PPI on the credit agreement, applied unfair 
pressure to Mr and Mrs B. The credit agreement was clear  that the PPI was optional, gave 
its basic cost (over  £12,000), provided a way for Mr and Mrs B to decline it, and required 
them to select either single or joint cover.  And it was likely  only added on the request of 
Company A. It seems to me that Mr and Mrs Bs signatures on the credit agreement would 
reasonably supersede the lack of a tick in the PPI box on the loan application form  the lack 
of a tick being far more likely to be an oversight than two ticks and a signature committing 
them to spending  over £12,000 on the PPI.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B say the ticks selecting PPI on the credit agreement were  
already on the page when they received  it. But if thats the case  it seems more  likely than not 
Ref: DRN18888342that this was as a result of their conversation  with Company A (mentioned  in the cover letter 
that arrived with the credit  agreement). And even  if that was pre-ticked, and Mr and
Mrs B were  keen to get the loan without  further  delay, Im not persuaded this wouldve been 
enough for them to commit to borrowing  an additional £12,000   which  was an extra
24% on top of the amount  they were  applying to borrow. Had they not wanted  the PPI, they 
couldve checked with Company A that they could amend  the form in order  to decline it.
Mr and Mrs B have  also suggested that the discrepancy between  the loan application form 
(where PPI wasnt selected) and the credit agreement (where  it was)  shouldve prompted 
Firstplus to query the PPI selection on the credit agreement. But these  two forms were 
completed by Mr and Mrs B on the same day and returned to Company A. Company A 
submitted the credit  agreement to Firstplus on behalf of Mr and Mrs B, having previously 
discussed their application  with them. So if either of the companies had a responsibility to 
double check this, I think it would  be Company  A.
Mr and Mrs B say they agreed  to PPI because they thought they had more chance of getting 
the loan. But I can see that in the letter that arrived with the credit agreement  it said the loan 
had already been accepted in principle. So it seems there was little risk of the application 
being declined.  And from what Ive seen,  Firstplus didnt do anything that would reasonably 
suggest that the PPI would improve the chances  of getting the loan.
Overall, having considered all the evidence  including everything  Mr and Mrs B have said  
I dont think Firstplus is responsible for selling the PPI. And I dont think anything else 
Firstplus did means that Firstplus should refund anything more.
Firstplus got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Firstplus  didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  To put that right, Firstplus has paid back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with my provisional  decision. In summary, they said:
There was no tick for PPI on the Company  A loan application form because  they 
didnt want it. 
The telephone  call with Company  A didnt involve any discussion of PPI. 
In 2001 they applied  for a loan through Company A and ticked  the no box on the 
credit agreement  to indicate  they didnt want PPI. 
They didnt tick the two boxes for PPI on the credit  agreement  these ticks were  
already there when  they received it. And there  were no ticks for PPI on the loan 
application because  theyd made  a conscious  decision that they didnt want it. 
Their previous credit agreements involved  repayments  of about £1,200 per month, so 
committing to roughly an increase from about £480 per month to £580  per month on 
this credit agreement was an easy decision given  they thought they had to have the 
PPI to get the loan. And the overall amount  theyd be paying was much  less. 
Ref: DRN18888343The increase  in borrowing paled  into insignificance compared to a roughly 50% 
reduction in loan interest from consolidating their existing  lending.  
They didnt enquire about amending the form as they thought only Firstplus could 
authorise this. 
There was no direct contact between Mr and Mrs B and Firstplus,  but they maintain 
that Firstplus shouldnt have sent the credit  agreement  to Company A until it had 
received a loan application form (which they signed  at the same time as the credit  
agreement). And that Firstplus  shouldve queried the £50,000  loan requirement  on 
the application versus  the £62,245  (including  PPI) shown on the credit agreement. 
They think the relationship between them and Firstplus is unfair  because  of its failure 
to question discrepancies  between the loan application and the credit agreement. 
Firstplus said it had nothing further to add. 
my additional findings
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs B have said in their response to my provisional 
decision, as well as all the evidence and arguments  made throughout this complaint. But Im 
still not persuaded to uphold it. I dont think Firstplus  was responsible  for selling the PPI. 
While I dont think Firstplus sold the PPI, the credit agreement made it clear the PPI was 
optional. And Mr and Mrs B had declined  PPI on a previous loan from Firstplus (through  
Company A) which used a similar  credit agreement. So, given there was no direct contact 
between Firstplus and Mr and Mrs B, I dont think Firstplus did anything  that would 
reasonably convince them they had to have PPI to get the loan (or that it would help), or 
applied unfair  pressure onto them. 
Much of Mr and Mrs Bs response deals with the sale of PPI, and I think Company A was 
responsible for that  not Firstplus. And Im not persuaded that anything, other  than the issue  
of a high level of commission and profit share, made  the relationship  unfair. And I think  the 
refund already paid by Firstplus is sufficient  to put that right.  So I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1888834