K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Santander  UK Plc acted unfairly  and unreasonably by delaying 
the release of their mortgage monies.  They want compensation.
background 
Mr and Mrs T wanted a mortgage from Santander  and were  offered one. They  said though  
that Santander delayed releasing the mortgage monies to their conveyancer, which caused 
delays and costs  (completion was delayed by one day). Mr and Mrs T felt this was unfair and 
unreasonable and complained, pointed out that theyd incurred storage and extra  removal 
costs as a result. Their conveyancer said completion  was delayed as Santander  asked for 
extra information after contracts were exchanged and wouldnt speed  up its usual 
timescales, despite the urgency (but it offered compensation). It also said that it only 
exchanged contracts  after checking  Santander  was ready for completion by calling on 
18 July (completion was due on 24 July)  and specifically checking.
Santander said that it was able to ask for more information at any stage during the 
application, and that all its questions hadnt been  answered by Mr and Mrs Ts conveyancer 
by the planned completion date. Santander explained that it had first asked for the missing 
information over a month before  completion was due to take place and before contracts 
were exchanged. When it received the information, it took four days  (including a weekend)  to 
consider it and get a valuers opinion,  which Santander  felt was reasonable. It accepted that 
its staff shouldnt have  told the solicitors  that it was ready to proceed  to completion, but 
noted that it did correct  the position that day and wrote to the conveyancers to tell them  
information was outstanding, which it wouldve received  the next day. It paid £50 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.
Mr and Mrs T complained to us. The investigators view was that we could only look at 
Santanders actions,  not the conveyancers. She thought though that Santanders answer on 
the phone  to the conveyancers that all was ready  for completion was correct as it hadnt  
received the conveyancers letter. She also said that Santander responded to the 
conveyancer promptly  when it did receive letters,  and if the conveyancers  had sent the 
information earlier, completion wouldnt have been delayed.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They said that Santander shouldve  told the conveyancers  that 
information was still required, and if it had chased the conveyancers  earlier, completion 
wouldve happened on time. Mr T said that he personally also contacted Santander  before 
completion and was told all was ready for completion (though  he was unable to provide 
evidence of this call).  The investigator accepted  that Santander had said it was ready when it 
wasnt, but noted the long delay by the conveyancers to answer its questions and that 
Santander chased the information when it received the certificate  of title. The investigator 
said that in essence completion had been  delayed  by the conveyancers not answering the 
questions for about a month.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN12602712Its clear  from the evidence  that Mr and Mrs T werent at fault for what happened.  Its 
understandable that they feel caught in the middle of a dispute between Santander and their 
conveyancers, because in my view thats what happened. And it was Mr and Mrs T were 
suffered the upset  of finding  themselves without a home and having  to put their possessions 
in storage. It took some time, despite completion taking place the next day, for the removal  
company to find an opportunity to return their possessions. Mr and Mrs T were fortunate  to 
have supportive relatives who could  offer them somewhere  to stay with their pets. But we 
dont award compensation on the basis of what mightve happened; we look at what  actually 
happened. And we can only look at the actions of Santander, not the conveyancers.
Santander was entitled to ask questions,  and the conveyancers didnt give the information 
requested, despite  receiving a letter raising  the issue from Santander.  But Santander did tell 
the conveyancers when  they called before exchanging contracts that all was ready for 
completion, apart from the certificate  of title. The conveyancers were  clear in the call that 
they were calling to ensure all was well and they would  be relying on the answer from 
Santander. I think Santander was at fault in telling the conveyancers  that it was ready to 
proceed as it shouldve known that it hadnt received the answer  to the question it put to the 
conveyancers. But the next day the position was corrected by Santander and I cant  see any 
evidence that the conveyancers took action to delay completion. The conveyancer was 
trying to complete  the purchase  when it had been told the mortgage wasnt ready and it 
needed to provide more information and await Santanders response;  this caused Mr and 
Mrs Ts financial losses. But Santanders  initial incorrect response  did contribute  to the 
decision to exchange  contracts and did cause  trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs T.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered. I think  the evidence  shows  
Mr and Mrs T were  very upset about  the incorrect information given by Santander that it was 
ready to proceed  (though this was corrected within a day). But much  of their trouble and 
upset is due to the failure to delay completion until Santander had the answer to its question 
and was ready to proceed, which isnt Santanders  fault. £50 is the amount of compensation 
Id expect to see when a small amount of trouble and upset (including inconvenience) has 
happened due to a failure by a business;  this isnt the case here.  Taking all the 
circumstances into account  and the £50 already  paid by Santander,  I think  Santander should 
pay an additional £250 to Mr and Mrs T. Its error compounded the solicitors  error, which  in 
combination led to exchange  and meant  Mr and Mrs T had to rearrange completion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs T felt more compensation should be paid 
to them  for the mistakes  made by both Santander and the conveyancers.  They wanted both 
to work together and agree a package  to compensate for their financial loss. Santander  
accepted my provisional view.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs T are concerned, as another ombudsman service is 
dealing with their complaint  against  the conveyancers.  But this service can only deal with 
Santander and I have no power to make the conveyancers agree to anything. And as my 
provisional decision explains, the core cause of the financial  loss Mr and Mrs T have 
suffered in my view is not due to the failure by Santander to give an accurate answer when 
called about completion. This is why I thought only compensation for trouble and upset 
should be paid by Santander, and I remain of the same view.
Ref: DRN12602713my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Santander UK Plc should  pay 
Mr and Mrs T another £250  compensation for their trouble and upset. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept  or reject my 
decision before  23 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1260271