K822xComplaint
Mr G has complained about the loans he took out with MYJAR Limited trading as MYJAR  
MYJAR. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background 
Mr G took five loans from MYJAR between  July 2017 and June 2018. Each of these loans 
was due to be repaid  over a number of different instalments  but in most cases Mr G repaid 
the loans within the next month or two. Mr G had some problems repaying his final loan and 
an outstanding  balance remains. A summary of Mr Gs borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 13/07/2017 10/08/2017 6 £650.00 £200.26
2 20/08/2017 25/10/2017 12 £1,000.00 £149.57
3 09/01/2018 10/03/2018 3 £550.00 £265.63
4 10/03/2018 15/06/2018 6 £1,100.00 £327.57
5 15/06/2018 Outstanding 12 £2,025.00 £306.23
The adjudicator concluded that due to the overall  pattern  of borrowing, MYJAR should've 
stopped lending to Mr G from loan 4, as he felt the lending  had become unsustainable for 
him at this point.
MYJAR didnt agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. It felt the increased checks  it 
carried out were proportionate and asked for an ombudsman  to review this case.  The case 
has therefore been passed  to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 August 2019 explaining why I was thinking of reaching  
a different conclusion to the adjudicator and only upholding Mr Gs complaint in relation to 
loan 5.
Both Mr G and MYJAR accepted my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness,  I 
have set this out below.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN17829542The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  MYJAR  lent to Mr G. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as MYJAR. 
I am not quoting all the specific  regulations  here, because I would expect MYJAR to be 
familiar with these through previous ombudsman decisions, particularly recent  decisions,  
which set these rules out in more detail.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words the assessment  needs  to be consumer-focussed.  It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way.  
Certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include, 
but not limited  to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So MYJAR was required  to establish whether Mr G could sustainably  repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr G could 
sustainably make his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ref: DRN17829543This is because CONC defines sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
So, it follows  that a lender  should  realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably - if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.  
MYJAR told us that it asked Mr G for his income  and monthly expenses  for each loan. It also 
carried out a number of credit  searches  and applied its own internal criteria to establish a 
monthly affordable  amount.
I think the checks MYJAR did were proportionate for the first 3 loans, so I dont think  it was 
wrong of MYJAR  to have provided  these loans because the information it gathered from Mr 
G indicated he could  afford the monthly repayments. There also wasnt  anything in the 
information that it saw, to give MYJAR  cause for concern about Mr Gs financial position.  
But, by loan 4, I think MYJAR should have specifically been asking about any other short  
term lending Mr G may have had and its not clear to me that it did this. That said,  from what  
I can see, Mr G didnt  have any other  short term loans actually outstanding at the time he 
took loan 4, so if it had asked, I dont think this would have made  a difference  to MYJARs 
decision to lend So given  the circumstances, I dont think  it was wrong of MYJAR to have 
provided Mr G with this loan. 
Whilst I think by Loan  5 MYJAR  ought to have  verified the information Mr G was providing 
and fully review his financial situation,  I dont  need  to work out whether or not this would 
have been affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
This is because, as I mentioned above, there may come a point  where the lending history  
and pattern of lending  itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  
On this basis, Ive also looked at the overall pattern  of MYJARs lending history  with Mr G, 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN17829544The adjudicator thought  that this point was reached  by loan 4 but I dont agree. Given  the 
particular circumstances  of Mr Gs case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 5. I say 
this because:
There was a two and a half gap between  loans 2 and 3  whilst I dont think  this gap 
was particularly significant, it is difficult for me to conclude that Mr G was routinely 
using short-term loans  to get by when he took out loan 4.
However, loan 4 was taken on the same day loan 3 was repaid and Mr G applied for 
loan 5 on the same day loan 4 was repaid. Loan  5 was twice the amount of loan 4 
and the term was correspondingly extended.  
From  loan 5 MYJAR ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr G was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Gs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr G wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed MYJAR.  
Loan 5 was taken out 11 months after Mr Gs first loan. And it was for over 3 times 
the amount he initially borrowed. 
Loan 5 was due to be repaid over a further  12 months.  By approving  this loan, 
MYJAR was extending Mr Gs indebtedness  for a further year resulting in 
Mr G borrowing short term loans for 2 years with little in the way of gaps.
Mr G had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over 
an extended period.
I think that Mr G lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 5 
because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
this loan was likely  to have had negative implications on Mr Gs ability to access  
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 5 only and MYJAR should  put things right as set 
out below.
Ref: DRN17829545Putting things right
I understand there is an outstanding debt with MYJAR, if this is the case, redress  should be 
along the following lines: 
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance,  not including anything  
MYJAR has already  refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr G which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Mr G as though they had been  repayments 
of the principal on all outstanding loans.  If this results in Mr G having  made  
overpayments then MYJAR should refund  these  overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MYJAR  should  then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr G. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then MYJAR  should try to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Mr G.
E.The overall pattern  of Mr Gs borrowing for loan 5 means any information recorded  
about it is adverse,  so MYJAR should remove this loans entirely from Mr Gs credit  
file. MYJAR does not have to remove the outstanding loan from Mr Gs credit  file until 
it has been repaid,  but MYJAR should still remove any adverse information recorded  
about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to deduct tax from this interest. MYJAR should  
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax MYJAR has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Gs complaint as Ive explained  above  and in my
provisional decision. I require MYJAR  Limited  trading  as MYJAR to put things right for Mr G 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1782954