K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the short term loans he took out with Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited trading  as Satsuma Loans.  Mr H says that it failed to perform  an appropriate 
creditworthiness assessment as it was required  to do under FCA regulations. Mr H says if it 
had done this it wouldve seen that he had a large  amount of current debt and that he wasnt 
able to afford these  loans.  
A default has been registered against some of the loans which has meant that Mr H is 
unable to get credit at a reasonable cost elsewhere. This is causing  him significant stress. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Hs complaint should  be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
Satsuma responded  and agreed with my provisional  decision.  It made  an offer settle the 
complaint in line with what  Id said.  
Mr H didnt agree with my provisional decision.  He said that:
he wasnt able to repay the outstanding  balance that remained on his loans; and
as Satsuma had lent irresponsibly  any interest and charges he paid should  be 
returned to him; and  
the outstanding amounts  - for loans 4 and 5 - should be written off and he should 
receive the compensation directly rather than it being used to reduce the amount  he 
owes to Satsuma; and 
his credit file should be amended to remove all the late payment markers for all of 
the lending
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H essentially  says that because  Ive decided that it was irresponsible for Satsuma to 
approve loan 5 then he should receive the interest  and capital back for loans 4 and 5. And 
any outstanding  balance on these loans should  be written off. So Mr H thinks he should 
receive the compensation in full. 
Firstly, I still dont think Satsuma was incorrect to approve loan 4. So Im not making  any 
award in respect  of this loan. 
Ref: DRN18147422And I still think Satsuma shouldnt have approved loan 5 for the same reasons  I outlined in 
my provisional decision. The purpose of the compensation should be to put Mr H back  in the 
position he would be in had Satsuma not lent irresponsibly.  So Mr H should be compensated 
for any interest and charges he paid, as he shouldnt have paid them.  And if he hasnt  repaid  
any of the lending then this should  be repaid to the lender. This is because it shouldnt have 
lent to Mr H, so he wouldnt  have received this money.   
The compensation I am awarding does this as it refunds the interest and fees paid, plus 
interest, to Mr H for loan 5. It uses the refunded interest and fees to repay  some  of the 
amount outstanding on loan 5. I think this is fair and it puts Mr H, largely, back in the position 
he would  be in had he not taken loan 5. 
It follows from the above that Satsuma should  remove the negative entries on Mr Hs credit 
file about loan 5 but not loan 4. 
And I would remind Satsuma of its responsibility  to treat Mr H positively and sympathetically 
in respect of any money he may owe to it going  forward. 
what Satsuma should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr H, Satsuma should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loan 5*; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit  file about loan 5
*If there is still an outstanding balance on loan 5, Satsuma  should remove any interest and 
charges from this balance  and treat any payments made as if they were payments towards 
the capital. 
If, after doing this Mr H has already paid enough to repay the princpal then any overpayment  
should be refunded to him with 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18147423extract from my provisional  decision
Mr H took out 5 instalment  loans between June  2015  and November 2017.  Some of the information  
Satsuma has given us is shown in the table below:
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedtermscheduled 
repaymentsdated  
ended
1 07/06/2015 £200.00 52 weeks £7.31 weekly 13/04/2016
2 13/07/2016 £100.00 13 weeks £11.01 weekly 13/10/2016
3 13/07/2017 £100.00 3 months £49.20 monthly 24/08/2017
4 04/09/2017 £250.00 12 months £41.40 monthly outstanding
5 01/11/2017 £545.00 12 months £91.30 monthly outstanding
Satsuma has looked at Mr Hs complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld.  It said that it did 
appropriate checks for all of the lending. And these  checks showed  that the loan repayments were  
affordable. The information it had provided to credit reference agencies was correct given that Mr H 
has not fully repaid  two of the loans.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Mr H and Satsuma  said. He thought  Mr Hs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He thought that Satsuma had made proportionate checks for loans  1 to 4. So he 
thought that Satsumas decisions to lend were reasonable.  
He didnt think  that Satsuma had made proportionate checks  for loan 5. But he thought  if it had then it 
still wouldve lent to Mr H. It would still have  seen that the loans were affordable had it made  better  
checks. 
Mr H didnt agree with our adjudicator. He said that: 
it was clear from his credit file that he had other payday  loans when he took the loans  from 
Satsuma; and
Satsuma shouldve  made better checks, in line with the regulations, and it wouldve  seen that 
he had other debt,  and financial problems,   and not lent to him; and
all of the loans werent affordable
So as no agreements been reached the complaints been passed to me to me to issue a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to partially uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Having  reviewed the 
evidence I have available  I think Satsuma was wrong  to have given Mr H loan 5. Ill explain  why.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable  manner. A lender  should 
gather enough information  for it to be able to make  an informed decision on the lending. The lending 
shouldnt adversely  impact a consumers financial situation.  
The guidance and rules  themselves didnt set out compulsory checks. But they are clear  that any 
checks needed  to be proportionate and could take into account a number of different things. This 
could include how much  was being lent, the size of the repayments and what the lender found  out 
about the consumer. 
Ref: DRN18147424So Ive firstly looked at whether Satsuma performed proportionate checks. If I think that the checks 
were proportionate then it usually wouldve been reasonable for it to lend. But if Satsuma  didnt  do 
proportionate checks Ive looked at whether it wouldve been  apparent to it that the loan repayments 
were affordable had it done better checks. Satsuma should put things right if its likely to have then 
found that the loan repayments were unaffordable.  
Satsuma says it looked at: 
Mr Hs regular income, expenses and other loans before it lent each time.  This showed  that 
Mr H had a monthly disposable income  of between £290  and £835; and. 
credit reference agency  data and compared this with what Mr H had declared. It reduced Mr 
Hs disposable  income before approving loans  4 and 5 because  of the information  it received  
from the reference agencies 
And based on what it saw from this it thought it reasonable to lend to Mr H.
why I think Satsumas  checks  for loans  1 to 3 were proportionate 
For loan 1 Mr H needed  to repay  around £7 a week over 52 weeks.  This isnt a large amount  to repay, 
even over this longer term. So I dont think it wouldve led Satsuma to think that Mr H was in 
financially difficulty, at this point of the lending relationship. 
Mr H repaid loan 1 and there was a three months gap between loans 1 and 2. For loan two Mr H 
needed to repay just over £11 a week  but this was over a much shorter period  of 13 weeks. So I think  
it was reasonable for Satsuma to say that this loan was affordable. 
There was a gap of around 9 months between loans  2 and 3 so it would be reasonable for Satsuma  to 
assume that Mr Hs financial situation may have improved. And the repayments were much the same 
as loan 2. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr H provided  when  he completed his loan applications. Mr H 
said he had at least  £290 a month left over from his income after his normal expenditure for loan 1 
and for loans 2 and 3 he had over £500. And I can see that Satsuma  did some checks to determine  if 
this information was reasonable.  
And I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made  aware  of any 
financial problems Mr H mightve been having. Or anything  that wouldve  prompted it to investigate  his 
circumstances further.
Mr H says his credit files show that he had other Payday loans and financial problems. Having looked 
at his credit reports hes provided,  and the other information, I can see that he did have some  other 
short term commitments. But I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say that Satsuma wouldve 
seen this, given the checks it shouldve done. 
So I dont think further checks were needed  given the proportion of the amount being borrowed in 
relation to what Mr H declared as his monthly disposable income. So I think Satsumas decisions to 
lend for loans  1 to 3 were reasonable and Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about  them. 
why I dont think Satsumas checks were proportionate for loans 4 and 5
Ive carefully thought about  what  Satsuma and Mr H have provided and what  both sides have said.  
Loan 4 was approved almost  straight away after loan 3 was repaid  and the amount borrowed  was the 
highest so far. The repayment term was also long at over 12 months.  And Mr H borrowed a much 
larger amount  for loan 5 when he hadnt fully repaid loan 4. This meant  that the total monthly amount 
he would need to repay was around  £130 per month. Which was a substantial  increase on the £7 a 
week he repaid for loan 1. 
Ref: DRN18147425I think  this shouldve  been a good indication to Satsuma  at that time that Mr H may have some  
financial problems. Satsuma shouldve also become  concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Mr Hs true financial  situation.
So for loan 4 I think that it wouldve been  proportionate to find out about Mr Hs normal monthly living 
costs and financial  commitments  including  any existing short-term lending.  And for loan 5 I think  that 
Satsuma also needed to verify this information  to get an accurate  picture  of Mr Hs finances. In order 
to make sure he was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Satsuma  did this here.  So I need to think about what Satsuma  wouldve  seen if it had 
carried out proportionate  checks. 
what I think proportionate checks would most likely  have  shown
Mr H has provided some information about his financial  circumstances which  includes his bank 
statements and information  about his other short term lending. I accept that this isnt exactly what 
Satsuma wouldve seen at the time. But I think it wouldve  found out similar information if it had made 
proportionate checks, so I think its reasonable  to rely on it.
For loan 4 Satsuma recorded Mr Hs income  as being just over £1,800 and his regular  expenditure 
was just under  £1,300.  So Satsuma recorded that Mr H had a disposable  income of just under  £550.  
Satsuma shouldve  found out if Mr H had any other short term lending before approving this loan. 
Having looked the information provided, I cant see that he did have significant  other short term 
borrowing to repay when Satsuma approved loan 4. 
So I think if Satsuma had made further checks it wouldve reasonably  concluded that Mr H  had 
enough left over to make the repayments for this loan. So I dont think  that proportionate checks  
wouldve stopped  Satsuma  from giving  loan 4 to Mr H in these circumstances.
Before approving loan 5 Satsuma recorded Mr Hs disposable income as being  around the same level 
as loan 4. And I havent been provided with any information that shows this was materially incorrect. 
But the information it saw on Mr Hs credit reports led to it reducing his disposable income by around 
£300 to just over £200. And Mr H did have other short term loans.  I can see that he had around £500 
outstanding with another lender at the time Satsuma approved loan 5. This means that the 
commitments he already  had were  greater  than his income. 
I think  that Satsuma  wouldve found out this information if it had made  proportionate checks. And I 
think Satsuma wouldve  seen Mr H wouldnt  have been able repay the loan 5 in a sustainable way. So 
I think  that Satsuma  shouldnt have given loan 5 to Mr H and I think hes lost out as a result of this. Im 
upholding Mr Hs complaint  about loan 5. 
I am planning  to require Satsuma to remove any adverse  information  recorded on Mr Hs credit file 
about loan 5. But I think the information recorded about loan 4 is likely to be correct as Mr H hasnt 
been able to repay this loan. 
Ref: DRN1814742