K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited defaulted and sold his account 
to a third party without contracting him first.
background
On 22 August 2018 Mr J contacted Shop Direct to set up a payment plan to bring  his 
account up-to-date. As the income  and expenditure analysis showed  he had insufficient 
disposable income to do this, Shop  Direct offered to place his account on hold to give him 
the chance to seek  advice  from a debt advisory  service. It asked he get back in touch within  
28 days but says he failed to do so. It then issued a default notice on 17 September  2018 
and sold his account on 29 October 2018. Mr J says he did keep in touch by phone and 
Shop Direct had committed  not to sell the debt without contacting him first, but it did.
Mr J also says that Shop Direct didnt respond  to his subject access request (SAR) and he is 
unhappy with the tone and some of the content  of the final response letter, as well as the 
service provided on the more recent  calls.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He said Shop Direct 
had acted reasonably. It had shown that it met the commitment it made to Mr J, but Mr J 
failed to stay in touch about his arrears. The adjudicator found Shop Directs 
communications were  appropriate in tone and content. And the business  had no record of 
Mr Js SAR prior to us forwarding his January 2019  letter to it in September  2020.  It then 
actioned the request by 5 November 2020. 
Mr J disagreed saying  we have shown bias towards  Shop Direct, it has not handled his 
complaint correctly or sent his information in a timely manner. And the 2018  call recordings 
show exactly what he was told about his account going on hold and not defaulting. 
  
As no agreement was reached  the case was passed  to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As some of the evidence is incomplete, I've made my decision based  on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I think is most likely given the available  evidence and 
the wider circumstances. In response  to the adjudicators view Mr J said that we had given  
Shop Direct the benefit of the doubt  but not shown him the same.  We are an independent 
and impartial organisation and dont  act on behalf  of either consumers or banks. There  is no 
benefit for us to find in favour  of one party over the other.
I have listened  carefully  to the call on 22 August 2018 that Mr J made to the customer  
arrears support team. On that call Mr J acknowledged Shop Direct had been  trying to get in 
touch with him, provided new contact details and asked if he could arrange a payment plan 
to bring the account up-to-date. I think Shop  Direct responded positively and sympathetically 
and it worked through Mr Js income  and expenditure  with him to see what  was affordable.  In 
doing so it concluded that after covering  his priority  bills Mr J had insufficient disposable 
income to set up a payment plan. It recommended  he speak to a third-party debt advisory  
service to understand what options  he had. Mr J was clear he didnt want  the account to 
Ref: DRN16327602default and the advisor  explained  she would freeze his account for 28 days, and that Mr J 
should then call back once hed decided to do. She confirmed the account  wouldnt default 
whilst it was frozen. 
I think Shop  Direct made clear to Mr J that he needed to call back  within  the 28 days.  And it 
didnt default his account within that time. Shop  Direct  has no record that Mr J made contact 
in this time.  He recalls  that he did, but he has been  unable to provide his phone records  to 
show any calls he made to Shop Direct during the 28 days. I dont doubt these are his 
honest recollections, but I also have to take into account that this was some time ago, and 
he does refer to calling  back in October  on the 23 November 2018  call recording I have 
listened to.
On 17 September  2018 a default notice was issued to the new address Mr J provided on the 
August call. Shop Direct has no record  that Mr J got in touch after this notice. It went on to 
sell his debt on 29 October 2018.  It has been able to show  from its systems records  that the 
notice was issued,  so I cant fairly hold Shop Direct  liable for any non-receipt. Overall,  I think 
Shop Direct treated  Mr J fairly and followed the correct process when selling his debt.
 
As I am not upholding Mr Js complaint, I wouldnt  have the powers to make  any award for 
any service failures in the handling of the complaint, or the SAR. This is because  they do not 
fall under the definition of regulated activities in the rules  I have  to follow.  I would say 
however that, like our adjudicator, I find the tone of the calls I have listened to and the final 
response letter appropriate. Mr J first put in a SAR in his 5 January 2019 letter, not in the 29 
November 2018  letter as he states.  I can understand he was frustrated that this was not 
acted on as he wouldve  been aware  of any non-receipt.  I accept  I cant know  that this is 
what happened, but Ive found no evidence to suggest otherwise. Similarly, when Mr J raised  
a SAR on the call of 23 November 2018 the call dropped, seemingly without  resolution,  
which must have been frustrating. However,  I havent seen any evidence  to fairly conclude 
that Shop Direct was at any point deliberately  evading his request.
It follows there is no further action I am instructing Shop Direct to take.
my final decision
I am not upholding  Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1632760