K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms N have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont pay the full 
amount of liquidated  damages they believe they are due following a claim they made under 
their buildings insurance policy.
background
In November 2016, Mr M and Ms N contacted  UKI to say their home  had been subject to 
water ingress causing damage to their kitchen. UKI appointed  a loss adjuster (which  Ill call 
C) to handle  the claim.
C drew up a schedule  of repair work. It appointed  a builder (which Ill call T) to do the work.  
Mr M and Ms N agreed  to stay in their property  for the duration of the works despite the 
anticipated disruption and the fact that they would temporarily be without  a kitchen. Mr M 
and Ms N had a private building project in their property which was due to start in June 2017 
and they made clear  their wish for the work  to finish before this.
C drew up a contract for the repair work which it asked Mr M and Ms N to sign. The contract 
named Mr M and Ms N as the employer and T as the contractor. C was identified as the 
contract administrator . According to the contract, the work was to start on 12 May 2017 and 
to be completed within  four weeks. The contract contained a liquidated damages clause 
under which T was liable to pay £750 compensation for each and every week which  the 
repair work overran.
In the event, delays  occurred  and the work didnt run to plan. In September  2017, Mr M and 
Ms N put C on notice that they intended to claim for liquidated  damages.
The work was eventually completed in October 2017, approximately  19 weeks  later than 
scheduled.
Mr M and Ms N asked C to provide damages  in line with the contract. C said that it had 
passed the matter  to T but that it believed T could be held responsible  for only 10 weeks of 
the delay. C also offered  £250 compensation for its own service failings.
Mr M and Ms N were unhappy  with Cs response. They complained  to UKI. They  said that 
they had received a poor service from T and C which  had resulted in them  living in an 
uninhabitable environment for several months.  They believed  that C, as the administrator  of 
the building  contract, should  have  obtained the liquidated damages due to them but they 
said it had instead  given them false information and had wrongly  sought  to apportion 
responsibility for the delays when the contract  did not provide for this. They also complained 
that they had twice  been charged the £350 policy  excess. 
UKI issued  a final response letter upholding Mr M and Ms Ns complaint. It acknowledged 
that the service  provided by its contractors had been  poor. It maintained that the dispute 
over liquidated  damages  was a contractual dispute between Mr M/Ms  N and T. However, 
after discussing the matter with T and C, it offered  £4,500  compensation for Ts poor service. 
It also acknowledged it had charged the policy excess  twice by mistake  and, while  the 
second excess had now been refunded, it offered interest on this amounting  to £21. It further 
noted that C had offered compensation of £250,  meaning that the combined amount  of 
compensation came to £4,771. It further said that it would round this up to £5,300 in full and 
final settlement of all issues, subject to all parties  signing  a settlement agreement  to confirm.  
Ref: DRN19093052Mr M and Ms N didnt accept UKIs offer. They referred their complaint to us. They 
considered that they should  be entitled to compensation of around £15,000, in line with the 
liquidated damages section of the building contract.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered  that 
the dispute over liquidated damages  was a contractual matter which  did not involve UKI. He 
was satisfied that UKIs offer to resolve the complaint was fair.
Mr M and Ms N didnt accept the investigators findings. They considered  that T was 
responsible for all of the delay and not just ten weeks of delay  as suggested by C. They 
furthermore pointed out that the proposed settlement wasnt  even enough  to cover ten 
weeks of liquidated  damages as outlined  in the contract.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The liquidated damages is a clause in the contract  between Mr M/Ms  N and T. Im not sure 
why C insisted that Mr M and Ms N sign this contract. UKI hadnt agreed  to give a cash  
settlement to Mr M and Ms N for them  to choose their own contractor to do the repair work. 
I therefore consider  that T was carrying  out the work  on behalf of UKI and hence that it 
would have been more appropriate for UKI, or C (acting  on its behalf), to have entered  into 
the contract  with T.
I am able to consider a complaint against UKI only. Even though  T was carrying  out work on 
behalf of UKI, and C (UKIs  loss adjuster) was the contract administrator, UKI was not a 
party to the contract. Given this, I consider the dispute  over liquidated damages doesnt 
really concern it. It is a contractual matter between Mr M/Ms  N and T. 
However, I consider  that UKI is responsible  for the service  which  its contractors provided. 
And this means  if there were failings  on the part of T or C, I would expect UKI to provide 
compensation to Mr M and Ms N. But unless there was evidence that the delay had led to a 
policyholder incurring particular expense (and there  doesnt  seem to be such  evidence  in this 
case), the level of compensation which this service awards for delays would normally be 
significantly less than £750 a week.
In this case, it is clear  there were failings  which  caused a delay in the completion of the 
works. UKI has offered compensation of £5,300 (this includes £21 of interest on the 
refunded excess which  Mr M and Ms N were  wrongly charged a second  time). I note that 
UKI considers that some of the delay was due to Mr M and Ms N. However, I dont believe I 
need to analyse the reasons  for the delay in detail. This is because even if UKI and its 
contractors were responsible for the entire  delay of 19 weeks (not over 22 weeks, as C 
originally said and which no-one has since corrected), I would consider that its offer of 
compensation was fair. If it hadnt made such an offer, my award for compensation would 
not have been for a higher amount than this. I say this particularly  as Mr M and Ms N were 
without the use of a kitchen  for only some of this period. 
Ref: DRN19093053UKIs offer is subject to Mr M and Ms N foregoing their right to pursue T for liquidated 
damages. I consider this is reasonable. UKI is seeking to compensate  Mr M and Ms N for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to them by the poor service  provided by T and C, 
acting on UKIs behalf. At the same time,  it is trying to resolve the dispute  over liquidated 
damages. In the end, it is up to Mr M and Ms N to decide whether to accept this 
compensation through UKI or whether to pursue  T directly on contractual  grounds.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1909305