K820x#14complaint
Mr C, on behalf of R Limited, complains that Aldermore Bank Plc acted improperly  in 
connection with a valuation it commissioned when R Limited applied for a mortgage.
background
Using a mortgage  broker, R Limited  submitted a mortgage application to Aldermore for a buy 
to let property consisting  of 4 flats. The mortgage application was for the property as a whole 
unit.
Aldermore issued a Heads of Term  document in June 2018 This provided  that a valuation 
needed to be carried out on the property.
Aldermore appointed a surveyor who carried out a valuation  of the property in July 2018.  But 
the surveyors report valued the property  at £285,000, which was lower than the valuation 
Mr C had anticipated.
Mr C contacted Aldermore to raise his concerns.  And he complained  to Aldermore in 
October 2018, raising a number of specific comments  and queries. In particular, he said that 
the surveyor appointed didnt have  appropriate local knowledge. And he said that Aldermore 
hadnt dealt with the concerns he had raised  correctly.
Aldermore didnt uphold  his complaint. It said, in summary:
The heads of terms documents  sent to R Limited  had set out that the mortgage offer 
was subject to a number of standard terms including a satisfactory valuation  of the 
property. The document also provided  details of the applicable fees and made it clear 
that these were non-refundable:  
Following acceptance  of these terms by R Limited and payment of the valuation fee a 
report was instructed. Aldermore employed the services of a number of Chartered 
Surveyors which form a panel. The panel  is managed by a dedicated area to ensure 
the quality of the valuation reports undertaken for the Bank  meets its expectations. 
Aldermore does  not ordinary offer an appeal route. Nevertheless, as a gesture of 
goodwill it had arranged  for a further  review to be carried  out. And, having 
undertaken this review  it remained  satisfied with the selection  of the surveyor,  the 
work undertaken by him, and the valuation figures  placed on the property.
It agreed there had been an inaccuracy with the dimensions recorded for one of the 
individual units, but was satisfied that this would  not affect the value of the overall 
property on which the valuation was focused;
While  Mr C had stated that the valuation should  have  been carried  out as a 
residential survey rather than commercial, for the purpose of the lending as the 
property is split into four individual  units but the mortgage application is for the overall  
property it considers this to be a commercial property and, as such, was surveyed on 
that basis;
As the Bank had acted appropriately it couldnt  refund the valuation  report  fee or 
instruct an amendment of the values.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that R Limiteds complaint should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
Ref: DRN10340052While  Aldermore hadnt  answered  all Mr Cs questions, it had explained that the 
reason for this was because it felt a lot of the questions overlapped and it wanted to 
focus on the crux of R Limiteds  complaint,  which was around the surveyor  and the 
valuation figure;
The valuation was provided by independent  surveyors and is not something that this 
service can look at. However, he could look at whether Aldermore had instructed a 
reasonably competent surveyor. When looking for a valuation to be carried  out, the 
business needs to appoint  a Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors  (RICS) qualified  
surveyor. He could  see that Aldermore had done this.
Mr C hadnt been happy with the valuation, and in this instance he would expect 
Aldermore to pass the concerns onto the surveyor. Aldermore  had done this. The 
valuation remained unchanged throughout  the process, and its reasonable for 
Aldermore to rely on the opinion  of the professional surveyor.
As Mr C doesnt agree  with our investigators view the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C, on behalf of R Limited, has raised  a large number of issues. And I note that he is 
unhappy that Aldermore didnt answer all of his questions. But Aldermore has explained  that 
this is because it felt a number of the questions overlapped and it wanted to focus on the 
crux of R Limiteds complaint. And, although I understand why this is frustrating  for Mr C, Im 
not persuaded that Aldermore is required to answer  all of his questions  in its final response 
to his complaint.
Equally, although  I have  carefully considered everything that Mr C has to say, as this service 
is an informal dispute resolution service I have concentrated my decision on those issues 
that I find to be central to this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the Heads of Terms document.  Im satisfied  that this sets out the fee 
payable for the valuation,  and the fact that fees are non-refundable.
Although R Limited  paid for the survey, the survey  was carried  out for Aldermores  mortgage  
lending purposes  only.
As our investigator has explained, this service  isnt able to consider the conclusions  reached 
in the valuation report, as it was carried out by an independent surveyor and therefore 
doesnt fall within this services jurisdiction. But I can look at whether the lender  instructed a 
reasonably competent surveyor, and how it dealt with Mr Cs concerns.
I would expect Aldermore  to instruct a RICS qualified  surveyor. And I can see that this is 
what it has done. 
Mr C raised a number of concerns about  the valuation with Aldermore. And Aldermore 
explained that it doesnt have an appeals process  in relation to valuations.  However,  in this 
case it decided to conduct a review.  As a part of this review, it asked the surveyor  for further  
comment. I note that Mr C considers this to be inappropriate.  But I dont agree that 
Ref: DRN10340053Aldermore was required to carry out its review in any particular way or instruct  a second 
survey. 
Having carried out the review,  Aldermore says that it remained satisfied with the selection  of 
the surveyor, the work undertaken by him, and the valuation figures  placed  on the property.
Im satisfied that Aldermore took Mr Cs concerns  seriously by carrying out a review.  I think it 
was fair that it did this. And, although  I appreciate that Mr C on behalf of R Limited  doesnt  
agree with Aldermores conclusions  Im not persuaded that Aldermore has acted 
unreasonably. Ultimately, it is a matter  for Aldermores commercial  judgment to decide how 
much it wishes  to lend in a particular case.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R Limited to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1034005