K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains Santander UK Plc (Santander)  incorrectly  issued her a Notice  of Sum in 
Arrears (NOSIA).
background
Santander served Miss C with a NOSIA in April 2019. This is because  she missed  two 
consecutive payments on her credit  card account.
Miss C says she received  credits to her account following refunds from retail  businesses 
which brought her balance to zero so she did not believe she needed to pay the minimum 
payment. She complains  the NOSIA  was incorrectly issued  and she would like it removed 
from Santanders records.
Santander says it followed the law and correctly issued the NOSIA so they are entitled to 
hold this record. They say based on the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974), a refund is 
not considered  a payment  because  it was not made by Miss C. 
The investigator did not uphold the complaint  as they also said a refund is not considered  a 
payment under the definition of the CCA 1974. In their opinion, Santander had not sent the 
NOSIA in error so they are not required to remove it from their records.  
Miss C disagrees and maintains Santander are not following the intention of CCA  1974. She 
wants the NOSIA removed from their records as she considers this to be inaccurate 
information and is in breach of data protection laws.
The matter  has been referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, there  is no dispute as to whether or not Miss C made  payments to her credit card 
account. I will decide whether the refunds to Miss Cs accounts  can be considered  as 
payments therefore  meeting the accounts  minimum payments.
I have considered the terms and conditions of Miss Cs credit agreement and it states she 
must make at least  the minimum payment each month by the due date shown on the 
statement. This is consistent with the CCA  1974 which says payment means payments to 
be made at predetermined intervals  provided  for under the terms of the agreement. Neither 
definitions say refunds  are to be considered a payment so I believe  it is reasonable for 
Santander not to extend  this definition and accept  the refunds as a payment to the account.   
Credit card providers like Santander apply a point  in time (a cut-off  date)  each month in 
which they will issue a statement which outlines the activity on the account. Any activity after 
this date will be accounted  for in the next months statement. 
A statement is produced  and a minimum payment is set for the customer  to pay by a 
specified date.  In this case, the refunds to the account were processed after the statement 
was issued. This meant these credits could not be taken into consideration when Santander 
Ref: DRN18709892calculated the minimum payment  for that particular month. Had the refunds been made prior 
to the monthly  statement  being issued, this would have impacted the outstanding balance  
and therefore  the minimum payment. 
I have seen Miss Cs credit card statements  for February and March 2019.  Both statements 
indicate the minimum payment to be paid and the date it is due. There  is no evidence  a 
payment was made by the due dates. I can also see both refunds  were  made after the 
monthly statement  had been issued. 
In circumstances  where an account  holder  has not made two consecutive  payments to their 
credit card account, I would expect  Santander  to issue a NOSIA. The NOSIA should outline 
the overdue payments and ask the account  holder to bring  the account up to date. As no 
payments were made,  I believe it was fair for Santander to issue  a NOSIA.
I have seen a copy of the NOSIA and in summary  it says if Miss C receives  a credit or refund 
to the account  which  means  the minimum payment is met, there  will be no impact to any 
credit reference agency. Records show both refunds were applied  to the account and Miss 
Cs account balance  returned to zero. 
Santander has provided a copy of Miss Cs credit file and I am satisfied they have not 
reported the matter  as a default  to credit reference  agencies. 
I understand why Miss C acted the way she did and as somebody  who appears to stay on 
top of her credit card account,  I appreciate she is worried about the NOSIA. However the 
NOSIA does say she doesnt  need  to do anything if the balance has been brought up to date 
and Santander  has confirmed to our service  there  is no impact  to her other than the worry 
the letter caused. As Santander hasnt made a mistake, I cant  say Santander has treated 
her unfairly. 
I appreciate Miss C is concerned about  how the data will be held and shared  by Santander. 
I expect businesses to hold accurate information about their customers. This will include 
their personal details and information about how they manage their account.  For the 
reasons I have mentioned above, I believe the NOSIA was correctly  issued so I think it is fair 
for Santander to keep  a record of this notice.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1870989