K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Northern Bank  Limited  (NBL) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Because of the passage of time, neither Mr C or NBL has been able to supply any of the 
original loan documentation. Consequently,  Ive had to make some  assumptions and 
calculations about  Mr Cs loan and the PPI costs (which Ive rounded off) to help describe 
what is most likely  to have happened. It seems he applied for the loan and PPI policy  over 
the phone when taking a £6,000 loan. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium, which Ive calculated to be around £803, was paid in 
advance by being added to the loan (a single premium) where  it then attracted interest over 
the term. The loan was repayable over a 36-month term and the PPI policy term matched 
that. The monthly loan repayment was around  £198 with the PPI costing an additional £26, 
making the total monthly repayments around  £224.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay his monthly loan repayments for up to 12 
months in the event  of a successful disability  claim or unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  in sales. He told us he was entitled  to some sick pay, 
redundancy and had some savings available, which Ive considered with care. As regards 
his health, Mr C said hed had an appendectomy,  but I note this pre-dated  the PPI sale by 
many years, so Im afraid I dont consider this relevant to my decision.   NBL has sent us 
screenshots to show that the loan account closed early (in August 2000).
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  Mr 
Cs representative says:
NBL failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBL should  have told 
Mr C about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBL should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr C and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN11388522The information Mr C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.  The  ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN11388523I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBL at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Cs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBL 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Cs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBL gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.
-Whether NBL gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and NBL, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
NBL had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. We no longer have access  to the 
original sales material but as the sale was in 1999,  that isnt unusual;  businesses arent 
Ref: DRN11388524required to keep records indefinitely. Nevertheless,  we do know quite a bit about  how these 
sales usually happened because weve seen similar cases. And NBL has sent us a 
example copy of the type of credit agreement form that was used at around that time. 
My experience of these  sales is that the loan - and whether PPI was required with it - were  
usually discussed  during  the phone call. The credit  agreement was subsequently  sent to the 
applicant to check and sign.  The copy  of the credit  agreement  Ive seen in this case  matches 
my own experience of these sales, and I note the form shows what appears,  in my view, to 
be an obvious choice  between either  having  or not having PPI with the loan. So, I think  Mr C 
would have had various opportunities to discuss  and check  his PPI requirements  with NBL. I 
think he probably ticked the yes box for the PPI to be added, thus confirming what was 
discussed during  the call. The costs of the loan and the PPI part of the loan were set out on 
the agreement  in terms of overall  and monthly charges.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr C knew the policy was optional  
 because it said this on the form - and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBL provide advice?
NBL concedes this was an advised sale. This means it had to advise Mr C with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs 
and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps NBL took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr C. It seems  Mr C cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record available of what  the adviser discussed in relation  to the policy. This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mr Cs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  
the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr C would have been caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest NBL considered whether Mr C had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded NBL did all it should  have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr C given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded NBL advised with reasonable care and skill. However, while  Im not persuaded 
NBL did all it should have  done to make  sure the policy was suitable for Mr C, I do think  its 
more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable  for him. In reaching that 
conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr C had a need for the policy. He would have received some sick pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness, but less than the 12-month cover for the loan 
repayments offered  by the PPI. Due to how long hed been employed with his job I 
also think any redundancy benefits he had were likely to be limited and I havent 
seen any evidence  of the savings he says could fall back on  I note he was already 
borrowing £6,000  at the time. The policy would have therefore helped  Mr C manage 
the consequences if was he unable to work.
Ref: DRN11388525-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr C.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Cs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any relevant pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim because the operation he mentioned 
pre-dated the sale by many years. Theres no evidence this previous medical 
condition didnt  resolve itself or that by 1999 it was something  that was otherwise 
relevant to the PPI sale.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  NBL gave Mr C sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what NBL was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr C was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr C was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  he would have been given a policy document which explained  the 
rules. I also think  its unlikely  Mr C would have  taken out the policy without  any sense of 
what the policy was. And I think Mr C could see that the single premium was being  added to 
the loan and the total cost was also shown. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBL gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr C agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C Im not persuaded NBL did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr C. Im not persuaded NBL gave  Mr C all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN11388526-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBL ought to have done either.  
What effect did NBLs shortcomings  have on Mr C? To what extent did Mr C suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBL didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr C. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had NBL done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded NBL took the steps it should have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr C, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr C has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if NBL had explained things properly, Mr 
C would  have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr C says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when NBL advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Cs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr C was given about the cost was clear 
enough, although the PPI interest part could probably have been made clearer.  Also, the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
Ref: DRN11388527as clear as it should have  been.  Overall, Im not persuaded  Mr C would have found the cost 
unacceptable if he had been given all of the cost information during the meeting in which he 
agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  NBL made  clear  exactly what  Mr C would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Cs expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  that Mr C knew 
about 12 months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr C pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mr C didnt  have any pre-existing medical  conditions  as defined  by 
the policy and he was in permanent employment. And theres  no evidence to suggest that at 
the point of sale he intended to repay this loan early.  So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out. I note he did actually go on to repay the loan early, but theres  
nothing to suggest this was apparent at the point of sale  and I see he was refunded  £423  
in respect of part of the PPI premium.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr C would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr C had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr C was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own 
Ref: DRN11388528occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr C made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr C 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude NBL should  pay Mr C compensation,  as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr C thinks NBL misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Ref: DRN11388529NBLs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why NBL failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBL gave Mr C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find NBL negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr C and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that NBL had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1138852