K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Miss P are unhappy that a claim for accidental damage  under  their home 
insurance policy hasnt  been paid in full by Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited.
background
In February 2018  Miss P called a drainage company  since her kitchen floor was awash with 
grey water which was coming  up through  the solid tiled floor. Mr H and Miss P say they 
contacted Lloyds who told them the repair works would be covered. Lloyds says it just 
confirmed that they had accidental damage cover  for services.
After carrying out some  investigations  the drainage company advised that a drain  under the 
kitchen floor had collapsed. It exposed the damaged section and found the outline of an 
inspection chamber which had also collapsed. It said the falling rubble had caused the 
blockage. It removed the broken manhole  and repaired the pipe. It then reinstated  the floor 
to match  the existing floor. It charged  £3,270 for the works.
Mr H and Miss P made a claim to Lloyds for accidental damage.  Lloyds didnt accept the 
claim. It thought the damage had happened gradually over a period of time and said that 
wasnt covered by their policy. 
Mr H and Miss P complained to Lloyds. It said they hadnt shown what  had caused the 
damage to the collapsed  inspection chamber, so it wouldnt cover  that damage. But it 
accepted that the drainage company  had broken  the pipe when digging  into the inspection 
chamber and agreed that was accidental damage. So it said it would pay to replace the pipe. 
It asked how much of the amount paid by Mr H and Miss P related to that work. It also said 
Mr H and Miss P had cover  of £1,000 for clearing a blockage  to a pipe and so it would pay 
them that amount  less the excess payable under the policy.  It accepted  that theyd received 
poor customer service and wrong information  originally about  their entitlement  under their 
policy. It paid them £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by that.
Mr H and Miss P brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
didnt think Mr H and Miss P had shown  that the remaining damage which Lloyds had 
refused to cover was accidental damage as defined in their policy.  He also didnt think  that 
Lloyds had authorised the works  which Mr H and Miss P were  claiming  for.
As Mr H and Miss P didnt agree, the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Miss Ps policy covers them for accidental damage to services. Services are said 
to include pipes, drains and inspection covers  serving the policyholders home.
Accidental damage is defined as an accident that causes physical damage, which  is caused  
suddenly by an outside force and is not expected  and not deliberate.
Its not in dispute  that there  was physical damage  to the inspection  chamber which  wasnt  
expected and wasnt deliberate. Whats unclear is whether the damage was caused 
Ref: DRN13201282suddenly by an external force. The representative  from Mr H and Miss Ps drainage  
company said the force  and violence required to break out the reinforced  concrete floor had 
destroyed all evidence as to the cause of the original collapse.
Whenever a policyholder makes a claim  under  an insurance policy,  its their responsibility  to 
prove their claim  in other words, the onus is initially on them to show that the damage  
being claimed for happened as a result of something covered under the terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy.  I dont think Mr H and Miss P have done that in respect of 
the collapsed  inspection chamber. They cant show that the damage to the inspection 
chamber was caused suddenly by an outside force. So I dont think Lloyds  treated  them  
unfairly or unreasonably in declining that part of their claim.
Mr H and Miss P also say that Lloyds confirmed they would be covered for the work before it 
was carried out. Ive listened  to the call in question and am satisfied that Lloyds didnt 
confirm the claim would be covered. It only confirmed that Mr H and Miss P had accidental  
cover for services.  It said it would  need  to see the report from the drainage company before 
deciding whether the claim was covered.
Lastly I can see that Lloyds caused  Mr H and Miss P unnecessary trouble and upset by 
wrongly declining all of their claim at first. I think the amount  of £350 paid by Lloyds is fair 
and reasonable to compensate them for that.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1320128