K822xcomplaint
Mrs Z complains Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (Mercedes) charged her 
for keeping  the car shed got as part of a hire purchase agreement  for longer than was 
agreed. She doesnt think this is fair as she says it was Mercedes fault the car wasnt 
collected on time. 
I can see Mrs Z has a representative in this case who was involved in the dealings  with 
Mercedes. I will call him Mr A. 
Mrs Z also complained to our service about excess mileage charges. But I can see this part 
of her complaint has been resolved so I havent  addressed it in this decision. 
background 
Mrs Z entered a hire purchase agreement  for a car around September 2015. This was due to 
end in September 2017. At the end of the agreement,  Mercedes says it booked in an 
inspection and collection to take place on 2 October 2017. But it says Mr A wasnt at the 
agreed site  Mrs Zs property  when the inspector arrived. As he wasnt able to return  until 
around two hours later, the inspector couldnt wait for him so another inspection  was booked  
for 6 October 2017. Mercedes says this inspection and collection was put back  again to 
13 October 2017. 
Mercedes has said it thinks it was Mr As fault that the inspection and collection was 
cancelled on 2 October 2017.  So it doesnt think its unreasonable to charge  Mrs Z for the 
extra time she had the vehicle.  And its said Mrs Z and Mr A had sufficient time to rearrange  
the appointment if they could no longer make it. 
Mrs Z doesnt accept what Mercedes has said. She says Mercedes didnt arrange a specific  
time to visit her property.  And she doesnt think the inspector turned up or alerted Mr A that 
he was there  by knocking on the door or calling him. 
Mercedes has said it doesnt have a recording of the call that it says took place  when the 
inspector attended  the property and was told by Mr A that he wasnt  available.  So its given 
us contact notes  instead.  Its also given us the recording of the call when the inspection and 
collection were arranged.
Our investigator initially partially  upheld the complaint as she didnt think  there was enough 
evidence to say it was Mrs Zs fault the car couldnt be inspected  and collected on 
2 October 2017 as there was no recording of the conversation that took place. So she 
thought Mrs Z should only be required to pay half of the fee. Mercedes didnt  agree with our 
investigator. It said Mr A booked an afternoon  slot for the inspection but they couldnt  give 
him an exact time.  And when the inspector turned up at the property, he wasnt  available. 
Following Mercedes response, our investigator explained she thought the complaint  should 
be upheld because she thought Mercedes had promised to call Mr A before  the appointment 
to confirm what time the inspector would be around. And had it done so, she thought  he 
wouldve been available for the appointment. Mercedes  still didnt  agree  with our 
investigators assessment  as it said the earliest  it couldve called Mr A on the day wouldve 
been around 30 minutes before the inspector arrived. And it didnt think  Mr A wouldve been 
able to make  himself available at the property within this time. So the complaint was passed 
to me and I issued a provisional decision in February 2019. 
Ref: DRN10264882I thought the complaint should  be upheld in summary because:
From listening to the call recording from when Mr A was booking the appointment, I 
thought it was understandable he and Mrs Z wanted some flexibility considering  the 
personal situation he described  on the phone. And I didnt think  it wouldve been  
unreasonable to expect Mercedes to have understood  the exceptional  nature of their 
circumstances and treated them with more  flexibility.
Mr A asked for a late afternoon  appointment and specifically  asked if hed get a call in 
advance of the appointment (as the representative  couldnt guarantee a time). I thought  
he did this because  he knew  he wouldnt be available  if the inspector turned up without 
warning earlier  in the afternoon.
The representative assured Mr A that someone  would call before turning up  and I 
thought it was likely Mr A relied on this when making  the booking. Hed told us he 
wouldve been  there if hed been  given warning of when  the inspector would arrive.
I didnt think itd been made clear to Mr A the inspector  would only be able to give him 
around 30 minutes notice  before  turning up. And I thought he wouldve thought hed be 
called with more  notice. 
I didnt think it wouldve  been unreasonable for Mercedes to call earlier in the day (or 
even given  Mr A a specific time of arrival)  particularly  considering Mr A and Mrs Zs 
exceptional circumstances and what hed explained during the phone call.
The call notes from 2 October 2017  showed  the inspector  arrived at the property around 
12:20 in the afternoon and then called the customer.  And I thought  it was more likely Mr 
A and Mrs Z werent at the property.
I thought its more likely if Mercedes had at least done what  it said it would, Mrs Zs car 
wouldve been  returned on time and she wouldnt have accrued extra  fees. So I didnt  
think it was fair for her to cover the cost of the fees for returning  the car late. 
I could see the inspection and collection were  rebooked for 6 October 2017 but it didnt 
take place until 13 October 2017. Mercedes hadnt given us information about  why this 
further delay occurred. So I hadnt seen  enough  to suggest it was Mrs Zs fault or 
unreasonable. 
To put things right in this case, I thought if Mrs Z had already paid Mercedes  the late fees,  it 
should reimburse her the amount shes paid and it should add interest  at 8% simple per 
annum from the date she paid the fees until the date of settlement.*  
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. Mrs Z 
didnt make any further comments and said she accepted my findings  so far. Mercedes let 
me know it accepted  my provisional decision due to a lack of evidence from the inspector.
Ref: DRN10264883my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having also looked  at the responses Ive received, I see no reason  to change my 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So for the same reasons set out above and in 
my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Zs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited put things right by:
removing the late fees Mrs Z has been  charged  for returning the car late;
or if Mrs Z has already paid the late fees,  Mercedes should  reimburse  her the amount  
shes paid; and
add interest to that amount at 8% simple  per annum from the date Mrs Z paid the fees 
until the date of settlement.*   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
*If Mercedes  considers  its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs Z how much its taken  off. It should also give her a certificate  
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN1026488