K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her bank account, reopened it and then 
closed it again.  She wants it to reopen the account and pay her the compensation it 
promised.
background
Miss Ws mother brings this complaint on her daughters behalf. A large sum of money was 
paid into Miss Ws account. She didnt  have any knowledge of this transaction  and didnt 
know the payee. Barclays made the decision to close  her account but when her mother 
complained it said it would reopen  it and pay her £100 compensation and £33.55 that had 
been in the account  when it closed. But the bank reviewed her account further and made  the 
decision to close it again. It apologised and offered her a further  £50 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays should  do anything  more. She said Barclays could 
decide who it offered  banking  facilities to and this Service couldnt tell it to reopen Miss Ws 
account. She said Barclays said it would pay the offered compensation into an account once 
Miss W opened  one with another provider.
Miss Ws mother asked  for her decision to be reviewed but didnt make any further  
representations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
Banks are entitled to decide who to offer banking facilities  to so I cant find Barclays did 
anything wrong  when it told Miss W it was going  to close her account. And because of that 
this Service cant tell Barclays  to reopen it. But it did give her contradictory information when 
it said it would reopen it and then reviewed that decision. Its offered to pay compensation to 
Miss W once  shes opened a banking account  with another provider. I understand shes  
done that. And our investigator has sent those details to Barclays so that it can now pay her 
£150 compensation and the £33.55 that was the balance in her account  when it closed it. I 
think thats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1041661