K820x#14complaint
Ms W says HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms W bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a loan. She says she applied  
for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The cost of the policy was 8.38% of the monthly loan repayment amount and didnt attract  
interest.  
The policy provided  cover  for Ms W for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Ms Ws monthly  loan repayment for up to 
12 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Ms W was employed as a Senior Prisoner Custodian.  She has told us she was 
entitled to 6 to 12 months worth of sick and redundancy pay and had death  in service 
benefit. Ms W has told us of medical conditions she had before and around the time of sale 
but hasnt provided  any information about whether these conditions were  ongoing.  
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2005. 
Ms Ws representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ws representative  says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Ms W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Ms W about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms W and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The information Ms W received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
Ref: DRN10221582Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws complaint
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
Ref: DRN10221583other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Ms Ws complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Ms W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Ms W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms W, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms W suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms W and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms W know she had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time HSBC no longer has a copy  of Ms Ws loan 
agreement but it has shown me example  documentation that was in used at the time. This 
Ref: DRN10221584indicates that if Ms W wanted  to take out PPI the section that deals with credit  protection  
insurance wouldve  been filled in. Ms W wouldve also been  given a loan protection 
declaration to sign to confirm she wanted to take out the policy  and that she had been 
provided with information  about the policy terms and conditions.
I dont know if all of this happened in Ms Ws sale, but Ive not seen enough  evidence  to 
suggest it didnt.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Ms W knew  the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Its not clear whether  advice was provided  during this sale  I havent seen any testimony  to 
suggest it was so Im not persuaded that HSBC provided advice. So Im not treating the sale 
as advised.
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Ms W. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Ms W to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms W was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Ms W was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the approximate costs.  Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms W would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms W agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think HSBC  gave Ms W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ws representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ws. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN10221585-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms W about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms W has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings  have on Ms W? To what extent  did Ms W suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Ms W. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Ms W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms W would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
Ms W says she would not have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms W had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms W chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Ms W thought she was getting  
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms W has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms W knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear HSBC told her the exact premium at the point Ms W applied  
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Ms W would have been  told the cost before 
the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs  were  
significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
raised that with HSBC  at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Ms W would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Ms W would get back  in return  
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms Ws expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her loan 
payments) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN10221586The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Ms W 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Ms W pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms W from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Ms W hasnt told us about 
whether she had any ongoing medical  conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I 
still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms W would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences were  Ms W made  redundant,  or unable to work through accident  or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms W would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ws representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms W would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms W 
Ref: DRN10221587found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms W in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Ms W compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms W thinks  HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Ms W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ws representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms W and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms W in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1022158