K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about charges for repairs that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited 
has asked him to pay.
background
In May 2014  Mr L entered into a hire agreement with VWFS for a new car.
When the agreement  ended Mr L returned  the car. As far as he was aware there  was no 
problem with the condition of the car. Indeed,  in his opinion,  he returned it in mint condition. 
But months after he returned it, out of the blue, from his perspective,  he got a bill from VWFS 
for repair works. 
Mr L sent VWFS information from a garage  hed paid to repair  the car before he returned it. 
But he never heard back from VWFS  about  this. Mr L said the garage he used was a VWFS 
approved garage.
Further, Mr L was promised phone  calls back several times but this didnt happen. Rather  
after having  been pushed from pillar to post he said,  finally  he was contacted by a 
collections agency, acting  on behalf of VWFS. 
The collections agency didnt  answer  the queries  hed raised earlier  with VWFS. Instead it 
merely asked for payment. The agency contacted him so frequently  while  he was disputing  
this matter that he suggested its contact had become inappropriate. He asked the agency to 
stop contacting him, and it did for a while, much to Mr Ls relief.
In addition, Mr L thought that VWFS should not have left so long a gap between accepting  
the return of the car and sending him the bill for the damage. Also, he wanted  to know why 
the repair works hed had done were not good enough. Added to which, he wanted  to know  
why VWFS  wanted to charge him so much, and proof that it had done the repairs.  Mr L 
asked to see information to demonstrate that the car had lost resale value due to the 
damage. In any event,  he thought the report VWFS had provided didnt show  the damage it 
wanted him to pay to put right.
VWFS suggested it had done  nothing wrong. Its stance was, under its agreement  with Mr L, 
he is responsible  for the damage  it is charging  him for.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr L came to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint.  She didnt recommend upholding it. In short, 
she could see that the contract between the parties provided for VWFS to charge  Mr L for 
repairs in certain circumstances. She thought  these  circumstances were present here, so it 
was entitled to act as it had done. Further, she did not think the actions taken by VWFS  to 
recover the debt were inappropriate.
VWFS replied  to let us know  it accepted our investigators recommendation. When it replied, 
it also agreed that there had been  a delay in sending the invoice. But it didnt  think that 
meant Mr L had no idea the bill for the damage was coming. It said this because, at the time 
the car was inspected, Mr L would have  been told by the expert  who inspected the car that it 
was damaged. This expert would have  told Mr L that VWFS would charge for the damage. 
VWFS added that the car had now been  sold for around £1,500 less than its book price.  
Ref: DRN12263822Mr L didnt accept our investigators  recommendation.  In summary, he repeated again that 
the repair work had been done by a VWFS approved garage.  He suggested hed been  told 
the charges would be waived if he used a VWFS  approved garage. He didnt agree that the 
report produced by the expert showed the damage he was being charged  for. Later  on, he 
wrote to tell us that after leaving off for a bit, he had again been contacted by agency acting 
for VWFS, to repay the debt. Mr L thought VWFS should not be doing this.
Mr L asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the photos Mr L sent to 
us after our investigator looked  at his complaint, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
First I want to apologise to both Mr L and VWFS  for how long it has taken for Mr Ls 
complaint to reach this stage in our process. And I thank them both for their patience.
Where there is a dispute about what happened  (as is the case,  in part here) I have based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other  words, on what  I consider is most likely  to 
have happened  in the light of the evidence.
the damage
Theres no dispute that the contract  provides for VWFS  to charge Mr L for damage, in certain 
circumstances. In particular it seems the parties agree that were repairs  are poor VWFS  is 
entitled to charge Mr L to put this right. VWFS says the repair  work was of poor quality and it 
has provided an experts report to demonstrate this. VWFS also relies on industry guidance  
created by the BVRLA which is relevant for new cars.
For his part Mr L says the quality of the repairs was satisfactory. He has also sent us his own 
photos to support what he says.
I cant tell when Mr Ls photos were taken  and there  appears to be no licence plate on the 
car in the photos. Whereas  the photos provided  by the expert  show  the date the photos were  
taken and the registration number of the car.
Mr L says the experts photos show distortion due to the paintwork reflecting the stones  on 
his driveway. I can see the reflection of the stones but I can also see the quality of the 
repairs. It seems  to me this level of repair would entitle VWFS to charge Mr L under the 
industry guidance it relies  on.
For all of these reasons, I agree on the face of it VWFS is entitled to charge for the damage.
I realise Mr L may be disappointed  to find he has to pay for damage which  he thought had 
been repaired correctly  by his own garage. He suggests it was a VWFS approved  garage 
that did the work for him. On this basis, he says the charge  should  be waived. But we 
contacted the garage and it said it wasnt.  
why I dont think VWFS has to provide further  information
Ref: DRN12263823I dont think I have  to make VWFS  provide  us with proof of the repairs, the costs seem 
proportionate. In any event it seems  likely  that VWFS lost money on its car because of the 
damage. It has told us that the car sold for less than its book price.  I accept  there are many 
reasons that are likely  to impact on the price a car achieves at auction. But I do think the 
condition of the car is likely to be one of the factors  that will impact on the price  achieved. It 
follows, on balance, Im satisfied that because of the poor repairs  the car sold for less than it 
would otherwise have done.
the delay in providing the invoice and the failure to contact Mr L as promised
I can see it took VWFS quite a while to send Mr L the invoice for the damage. I take Mr Ls 
point that, ideally, the contract, should  provide for the invoice to be sent fairly quickly  after 
the return of the car and the inspection. But the contract does  not say this. So as a starting 
point I dont agree VWFS  did do anything wrong here from a contractual point of view.
Further, I cant fairly and reasonably say Mr L lost out because  VWFS  dragged its heels 
here. I say this because  whether he got the invoice immediately or whether there was a 
delay hed still be disputing the invoice as he does not agree the damage was there in the 
first place. He is not saying if he got the invoice earlier he would have  agreed  to make the 
payment.
I can well understand  that Mr L found  it frustrating to chase VWFS for calls back. I think the 
thrust of his complaint though is not about VWFSs failures to contact him when promised 
but about charging him for the damage. And as Ive already said it was entitled to do this. 
debt recovery
I realise Mr L objects to the debt recovery action that VWFS  put into motion.  But he is 
contractually obliged  to pay for this damage. It follows that VWFS is asking  him to pay his 
debt. I dont think this is inappropriate. Further, just because he made  a complaint that we 
are looking  at does  not mean that VWFS  is obliged to stop pursuing him for the debt.
Mr L has not said anything about  the tone of the contact from the debt recovery agents that 
makes me think it has acted unprofessionally  in carrying  out VWFSs instructions. Neither 
have I seen anything  about the frequency of the contact  that makes  me think it has been 
inappropriate.
In summary,  in all of the circumstances, for the reasons I have gone through, I have no 
proper basis to tell VWFS it must do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1226382