K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that incorrect advice from Barclays Bank UK PLC caused him to miss a 
mortgage payment,  resulting in a late payment  marker being reported on his credit  file. He 
says this has damaged  his credit rating  and impacted on his businesses  and him personally.
background 
By way of a provisional decision dated 26 July 2019, I set out, with reasons,  the basis on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. I gave the parties until 26 August 2019  to reply; both parties have done so already.
Mr A doesnt  agree  with my view that Barclays doesnt have to remove  the late payment 
marker, but should  change it to show one late payment rather than six. He remains of the 
view that it should  be removed altogether. Barclays has agreed with my provisional decision 
but confirmed  that its happy to stand by its original offer to remove  the late marker 
altogether.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Barclays  has agreed to remove  the late 
payment marker  altogether; that being so, theres no longer  any dispute between  the parties. 
For the sake of good order  and clarity, my decision will order Barclays  to remove the marker 
altogether. Thats not because  Ive changed  my mind  from what  I said in the provisional 
decision. Rather, its because if a business volunteers to do something it doesnt  have  to do 
in order to settle a dispute, its then fair and reasonable  that it should  do what  it has said it 
will do.
Ive no reason to think Barclays  would change  its mind, but an order from me removes  the 
risk of Mr A having to come back to us at a later date due to any mix-up or misinterpretation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that this complaint  should fairly 
be settled by Barclays Bank UK PLC doing the following:
refunding the £8 direct  debit fee charged on Mr As mortgage  account
removing the late payment  marker  from Mr As credit  file; and
paying Mr A £400 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Jeff Parring ton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12924532CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr A complains that incorrect advice from Barclays Bank UK PLC caused him to miss a mortgage 
payment, resulting in a late payment marker  being reported on his credit file. He says this has 
damaged his credit rating and impacted on his businesses and him personally.
background
Mr A has a business account with Barclays, on which  he has a regular  standing  order to pay a fixed  
amount into his personal current account with a bank Ill call H. That sum provides enough money to 
pay a number  of direct debits from the current account with H, one of which is for Mr As mortgage 
with Barclays.
In June 2018,  a shortage of funds in the business  account  meant the standing order to H wasnt paid 
on the usual date. Mr A spoke to Barclays on 11 June 2018, and was told that if he deposited funds in 
the business account to cover it, the standing order would  be re-presented. Mr A deposited the 
money, but on 19 June 2018 he discovered  that the standing order still hadnt gone through. The 
information hed been given during the first conversation  had been wrong; standing orders either go 
through on the due date or they dont.
Mr A moved the money from Barclays to H himself, but in mid-July 2018,  says he got an alert saying 
his credit rating had gone down. He investigated and discovered that the direct debit from H to his 
Barclays mortgage  about £212  hadnt gone through. Barclays had then reported the missed 
payment on his credit file. He paid the mortgage payment  manually  and complained; about  the 
original wrong advice  from the banking side and about the entry the mortgage department put on his 
credit file.
For the error in telling  Mr A the standing order would  be re-presented, Barclays apologised, agreed to 
refund an £8 unpaid direct debit fee to the mortgage account  and offered Mr A £50 compensation. For 
the complaint about the entry on his credit file, Barclays offered Mr A £100 (so £150 in all) but said the 
entry should stay. Thats because Mr A had known about  the unpaid direct debit by 19 June 2018,  so 
still had time to make sure it got paid before the end of the month.
Mr A brought  his complaint  and we treated it as two separate complaints;  one about his business 
current account, the other about his mortgage. The case-handler  considering the banking complaint  
thought the banks offer of a fee refund was fair, but said it should remove the credit file entry and 
increase compensation  to £100. 
The case-handler looking  at the mortgage  complaint focussed on what  Barclays had actually  
reported, and how that might  have impacted Mr A. Thats because, although Mr A had missed one 
payment, the bank had reported him as having missed six. 
When we asked Barclays  why this was, it said that although Mr As direct  debt amount was around 
£212 in total, the contractual instalment to the main mortgage account was just under £30; the rest 
was the monthly  overdraft interest on the linked  mortgage current account (MCA).  The banks 
reasoning was that the amount Mr A failed to pay when the direct debit was missed  corresponded to 
roughly six monthly instalments, hence  the entry on his credit file. 
Our case-handler thought this was wrong. He didnt need to order Barclays to change  the entry back  
to one month (because wed already concluded  it should be removed  altogether in our findings on the 
banking complaint). But he concluded that for the time the six-month entry  was there, Barclays should 
pay Mr A £300 compensation.
Barclays agreed to settle both complaints on the terms wed recommended,  but Mr A asked for his 
complaints to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. He thought £5,000 compensation  was more  in order for 
Ref: DRN12924533the time, trouble and upset hed been caused. He also said that in his opinion, the complaints should 
be merged and dealt  with as one. 
On reading the two case files, I agreed that they should be treated as one complaint.  What follows is 
my provisional  view of everything thats happened and how matters  should  fairly be resolved as one.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed  to 
consider it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider  context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
I dont have to decide if Barclays made a mistake;  its common ground that the bank gave Mr A wrong 
information when it said his standing order to H for June 2018 would  be activated if he paid funds  into 
the business account. What  I have  to decide, across the piece, is what  needs to happen  to put that 
mistake right.
Some parts are straightforward; Mr A incurred an £8 fee on his mortgage account, and that should 
definitely be refunded. Hes also due fair compensation for having been put to an awful lot of 
inconvenience and wasted time, not to mention distress. The question of how much  that should be is 
something Ill return to later in this decision; the crux of the issue  and what  I suspect really  matters 
to Mr A more  than anything else  is the credit file entry.
The broad principle  is as follows; lenders have an obligation  to report what has happened  on a 
mortgage account accurately and factually; they cant provide context. So if a payment is missed, that 
has to be reported. If its later revealed that the sole or predominant  reason for the payment being 
missed was a mistake the business made, then wed expect the business to remove the entry 
(provided also that the payment has subsequently been made).
Applying that broad  principle here, it seems to me there are three questions  for me to address:
was it right of Barclays  to record a late payment marker on Mr As credit file in the first place;
was the entry it made a factually accurate reflection  of what  had happened: and
bearing in mind what is now known, should the late payment marker be removed?
Ill answer each in turn, in that order. 
Regardless of what arrangements have been put in place to do so, the responsibility for ensuring 
mortgage payments are made  each  month on time always lies with the borrower. Mr As mortgage 
payment for June 2018 wasnt paid until mid-July 2018. Insofar as the starting point is that credit file 
reporting should reflect what has happened,  Im satisfied Barclays was right to apply a missed 
payment marker.
But what should that marker have said? Ive looked at what Barclays has said about why it applied a 
six-month marker, and I dont find it remotely plausible  or convincing. Mr A is contractually obliged to 
make the monthly payment  of almost £30 to the main mortgage account; hes contractually obliged to 
pay the interest on the MCA, but not necessarily  each  month. It can roll up if a borrower prefers  that to 
happen. That being so, the only contractual failing that needed reporting was the missing payment to 
the main mortgage.
Ive seen Mr As full credit file, and it contains two entirely separate and discrete  listings for the main 
mortgage account and the MCA. As each is reported separately, and only one of them  has to be paid 
every month,  it follows a late marker only needed to be reported on the main  mortgage account,  and 
thats what  happened. But it also follows  that only one months-worth of the contractual obligation  was 
late, so thats what Barclays should have reported. 
Ref: DRN12924534That brings  me to the last point; should  the entry be removed?  Barclays has said its willing to do so, 
but notwithstanding what our case-handler  initially thought, Im not persuaded  its something Barclays 
has to do. This is a contentious point, so Ill explain my reasons in detail. 
I said earlier  that for a business to remove an otherwise valid late payment  entry, it needs to be 
because an error on its part is the sole or predominant reason the payment was late. Ive thought very 
hard about that, as it applies to Mr As situation. At first glance, it might seem cut and dried that his 
June 2018 mortgage payment was late because of the incorrect information  he was given. But I think 
theres more to it than that. I think  that the banks incorrect information  was only one factor amongst 
several.
Firstly, its worth keeping in mind why the standing order from the Barclays business  account to H 
failed in the first place.  It was because Mr A omitted to ensure he had enough money  in the account  
to cover it; that was his responsibility,  no-one elses. Barclays responsibility to Mr A was to answer his 
question about the missed  standing order accurately,  by telling him it wouldnt be re-presented. If it 
had done that, Im satisfied  Mr A would have made a manual transfer to H immediately,  just as he did 
do when he found out the true position on 19 June 2018.
So the effect of Barclays mistake was to delay  Mr A making a manual payment to H until 19 June 
2018; thats critical  because the direct debit for the mortgage was due to be paid the day before,  on 
18 June 2018. But it seems to me that Mr A should have realised that; and that he needed to do more  
than just make a manual payment to H to replicate the standing order. To make sure all was well, he 
needed also to make a manual payment from H to replicate his mortgage direct debit. Even if that 
didnt immediately cross  Mr As mind on 19 June 2018, it should have done so once he received  
Barclays letter  of 20 June 2018 telling him the mortgage  hadnt  been paid.
I understand Mr A is a busy man, but he still had duty to mitigate  (that is, minimise  the adverse effect 
of) any wrongdoing  on Barclays part. Mr A had until 30 June 2018 to make sure the mortgage 
payment was made, but he didnt do that. Instead, if what he said in his original complaint  in August 
2018 is true, Mr A, in effect, waited to see if his credit file would be impacted. He said Because my 
finances are quite complex the quickest way to find out was to wait until my file was next updated. 
Thats not a consumer mitigating their situation.
In summary then, I find that there were  three contributory factors to Mr A receiving the late payment 
marker; only one of them was down to Barclays, and Mr A had (but didnt take) the opportunity to stop 
it happening. Putting all of that into its proper context, Im not minded to say Barclays must  remove 
the late payment  marker from Mr As credit file. 
Its offered to do so, and if its happy to stand by that offer, then fine. But if in retrospect, Barclays 
decides not to stand by the offer, I wont be ordering it to remove  the late payment  marker. But I will 
then order it to amend the marker to show one late payment rather  than six. Barclays should  let me 
know in its response  to this provisional decision whether it intends to stand by its offer to remove the 
marker altogether. 
That leaves the matter of compensation  for time,  trouble  and upset. Currently, the aggregate amount 
of compensation on offer is £400; Mr A told us he was looking for £5,000 but later said hed consider 
accepting £1,500. I do think Mr As been put to a great deal of nuisance, and hes definitely  due 
compensation for that. But in the light of my provisional  conclusions on the late payment marker, Im 
afraid his claim  for consequential loss has to fail. 
Ive no doubt the existence of the six-month marker is one of the reasons  Mr As had trouble obtaining 
car finance, buts its likely hed have had the same  difficulty if thered  been a one-month marker  on 
his credit file, as Ive found would have been appropriate. 
Mr A has talked about also having trouble  obtaining a business overdraft  with another bank which Ill 
call L. He doesnt say if the account in question is held in his personal name  or that of his limited 
company. If its the former, I make the same observation as I did about  the car finance;  its likely  hed 
Ref: DRN12924535have had the same problem with a one-payment  marker.  If its the latter, then Id have  to disregard it 
entirely, as Mr As company is a separate entity from him as an individual,  and I cant consider the 
potential impact on his company in a complaint brought by him personally.
Overall, taking everything into account, I consider the aggregate  sum of £400 to be fair compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr A has been  put to personally by Barclays in its treatment  of him 
over the problems  with his standing order and mortgage.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties by 26 August 2019 
my provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part by making the following order 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC:
Barclays must refund the £8 direct  debit fee charged on Mr As mortgage account
Barclays does not have to remove the late payment marker from Mr As credit file, but if it decides 
not to, it must  amend it to show one late payment instead  of six; and
Barclays must pay Mr A £400 compensation.
Ill review my provisional decision after 26 August 2019, or sooner  than that if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1292453