K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Western  Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat)  gave him loans  that he 
couldnt afford.
background
Mr W took out a total of eight loans with Cashfloat  between March 2017  and October  2017. 
Mr W repaid all of his loans in full and on time except for his final loan which at the time of Mr 
Ws complaint still had a balance outstanding.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
thought that the checks Cashfloat did before making the first four loans went  far enough. But 
she didnt think it had carried  out adequate checks before making the other loans. And she 
thought that proportionate checks when Mr W applied  for loans 5 to 8 would have shown  that 
he wasnt borrowing sustainably. So she recommended that Cashfloat refund all interest and 
charges that Mr W paid on loans 5 to 8, with interest  on the refund. And she said it should 
remove all entries about those loans from Mr Ws credit file.
Cashfloat didnt  reply to the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN15095732I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Cashfloat should  have  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  this point was reached by loan 5. 
I say this because:
Loan 5 was Mr Ws fifth loan from Cashfloat in under a month.  He asked to borrow £200  
which was the same amount as the four previous loans. I think this should have put 
Cashfloat on notice  that it was likely that Mr W was having problems  managing his 
money. So I think it should have been concerned  that he wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan sustainably.
Mr W applied  for loan 5 within a few weeks after repaying loan 4. And although  the 
amount he applied to borrow remained the same Mr W continued to borrow  from 
Cashfloat without  any significant break until he was unable to repay what he had 
borrowed after taking out loan 8.
I think that Mr W lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing  from loan five 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr W had been borrowing 
from Cashfloat, was likely  to have had negative implications on Mr Ws ability  to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 to 8. Mr W has had the benefit of the money so 
it is only fair that he pays it back and so Cashfloat  can apply the refund to the capital amount 
that is still outstanding after the refund of interest  and charges on the final loan.
Ref: DRN15095733putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
Cashfloat should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 5 to 8 inclusive;
write off any interest and charges not yet paid;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
apply the refund to offset any capital  balance remaining before paying the balance to Mr 
W.
the number  of loans Mr W had taken with Cashfloat and the total length of time hed 
been borrowing  from it means any information recorded about loans 5 to 8 is adverse. 
So all entries about these loans should  be removed from Mr Ws credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Western Circle Ltd (trading  as 
Cashfloat) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1509573