K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains about the way in which U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has handled  her travel 
insurance policy and a claim under the policy. 
background  
Mrs P has travel  insurance with UKI linked to her current account. The policy includes cover 
for her husband Mr P, but Mrs P pays any additional  premium  and has brought  this 
complaint about  the way UKI has handled the insurance policy.
In June 2018 Mrs P made a complaint to UKI, through  her current  account  provider.  She 
raised three  main issues. She said that:
UKI had unpleasant, rude and aggressive staff whod accused  her of not disclosing 
medical conditions.  
UKI had poorly  handled of a claim made in 2013,  when Mr P had had norovirus and 
then unfortunately  suffered a heart attack.  As a result  of UKIs handling, court  
proceedings had been  started against Mrs P. 
During the 2018 renewal UKIs  call handler J had been aggressive  during a 
conversation where J had tried to increase the additional  premium Mrs P had to pay 
for cover for her and Mr Ps existing medical  conditions. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaints in the main but UKI did agree to pay £100 
compensation for one issue around a declared  medical condition  and for poor service  levels.  
I issued a provisional decision saying that I thought  £100 compensation was reasonable. For 
ease I attach a copy  of my provisional decision,  which forms part of my final decision. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision but Mrs P did not. She sent me some  further  
comments and concerns, and Ill respond  to those points in my findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mrs Ps comments but they dont change my view that UKIs agreement  to 
pay £100 compensation is a fair and reasonable settlement to this complaint. Ill explain my 
reasons.
Mrs P was concerned her calls to UKI had gone  missing. Id said in my decision that not all 
calls were available. To reassure her, the reason those calls werent available  is that UKI 
retains call recordings for only three  years. They havent gone missing. Retaining  calls for 
limited time isnt unusual  and I dont find this suspicious. 
 
Ive noted Mrs Ps comments that for one policy  year she was charged  for an underactive 
thyroid/hypoactive thyroid when in fact shed declared an overactive/hyperactive  thyroid.  She 
called UKI and the man she spoke to told her she must have declared the former. He then 
said he couldnt find the earlier call. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Ps word  and I entirely  accept shes been open and honest with 
UKI about her medical conditions and Mr Ps medical conditions.  But the records  Ive seen 
Ref: DRN16496152show that UKI based any additional premium only on hyperactive  thyroid.  So I dont think 
she lost out because of any mistake  about  a hypoactive thyroid. 
With regard to the only claim shes made Mrs P said that her husband had a cardiac arrest 
and not a heart attack. Im sorry for my error.  It doesnt make any material difference to my 
decision as I can see Mrs P had given UKI all the information it needed about Mr Ps health 
conditions. Mrs P also said that the hospital didnt start court proceedings but said it would if 
the bill wasnt settled.  I thank her for the clarification. As I explained  in my provisional 
decision UKI responded to the complaint in 2013, acknowledging its delay and paying 
compensation. Ive nothing  further  to add to my provisional decision on that point. 
With regard to her eye Mrs P says she had slightly raised pressure in one eye, not high 
blood pressure  in one eye. UKI told her that she had to declare it as glaucoma but 
information from the Glaucoma Research Foundation says that her raised  eye pressure fell 
within normal ranges;  also raised  eye pressure alone doesnt cause glaucoma. 
I appreciate the point  Mrs P has made about  raised pressure in her eye and glaucoma. It is 
open to UKI could  consider raised  pressure as a risk factor  for eye conditions,  including  
glaucoma. UKI did record that Mrs P had told it about the raised pressure in her eye and its 
possible that its system didnt allow it to record  raised  as opposed to high pressure. But 
either way I can see that UKI didnt charge Mrs P any additional premium because  of the 
raised pressure in her eye. The fact shed told UKI about it meant  that it would be a declared 
condition and be treated as such  had she needed to make  a claim about any eye condition  
while travelling.  
Im sorry  to note UKIs error about  a change in address. It doesnt make any material 
difference to the outcome of the complaint.  I dont  think it was a lie but rather  a mistake but 
I appreciate that Mrs Ps view about  this will be different. She didnt have to maintain the 
original policy as she says. Ive noted  Mrs Ps comments  about UKIs recent recorded 
message that she heard  when extending her policy, saying that agents are likely to receive  a 
bonus if cover is purchased. Ive not seen  any evidence that UKI wrongly charged Mrs P for 
declared medical conditions to it. It was entitled  to charge a premium in line with its medical  
screening scores where particular medical conditions raised the risk to it. 
Mrs P says she had cystitis, which cleared up within 5 days but it was added  to the policy  for 
three years. As I mentioned in my provisional  decision UKI would have  asked her about any 
prescription medication in the 12 months  before a trip so cystitis might have straddled more 
than one policy year. Cystitis must have been mentioned later as well as it did appear as a 
declared condition  in 2017  but UKI has told us that no additional premium was charged  for it 
in 2017. 
Ive read Mrs Ps comments about  the slight  prolapsed womb.  I am sorry to hear her 
comments about the call handler, but I remain of the view that UKI was entitled to assess  the 
risk to it even if it was slight. Its clear  to me that Mrs P was open, honest and truthful in the 
way she answered  UKIs questions, and indeed  theres no suggestion that she wasnt. 
Mrs P remains of the view that UKI has behaved very poorly. I agree there  were  some 
shortcomings in its service and it should have recorded Mr Ps stent. But I think  its response 
to those complaints  and its offer of £100  compensation  is fair and reasonable. So I dont 
require it to do any more  other than pay that compensation, should  Mrs P decide to accept 
this final decision.  If she decides not to then the final decision wont be binding  either  on her 
or UKI.
Ref: DRN16496153my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my provisional decision and in this final decision I uphold  this 
complaint but only in part. I require U K Insurance Limited  to pay Mrs P £100 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience,  as it has offered to do.
UKI must pay the total compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs P 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs P how much  its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN16496154copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs P complains about the way in which UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled her travel insurance 
policy and a claim  under the policy. 
background
Mrs P has travel insurance with UKI linked to her current account.  The policy includes cover for her 
husband Mr P, but Mrs P pays any additional  premium and has brought this complaint about  the way 
UKI has handled the insurance  policy.
In June 2018  Mrs P made a complaint to UKI, through her current  account  provider. She raised three 
main issues.  She said that:
UKI had unpleasant,  rude and aggressive staff whod accused her of not disclosing medical 
conditions. 
UKI had poorly handled  of a claim made in 2013, when Mr P had had norovirus and then 
unfortunately suffered a heart attack. As a result of UKIs handling,  court proceedings had 
been started against Mrs P. 
During the 2018 renewal UKIs call handler  J had been aggressive during a conversation  
where J had tried to increase the additional  premium Mrs P had to pay for cover for her and 
Mr Ps existing medical conditions. 
UKI spoke to Mrs P about her concerns and then issued a final response  letter. In that letter UKI said 
it had given Mrs P poor customer  service  and said:
During the 2018 call it had increased  the premium based on the answer Mrs P had given  to its 
question but then reduced the premium again. It had given feedback and was sorry its service  
didnt meet Mrs Ps expectations. 
It had logged  a complaint in 2013 about its claim handling.  It said it had paid the claim in full, 
and as the claim  had taken long time it had compensated Mrs P.
Mrs P didnt think UKIs response  resolved  her concerns. She came to us and set out a detailed  
complaint. We sent that complaint to UKI and asked  for some additional information.
Our adjudicator summarised the issues Mrs P had raised  with us as follows:
Mrs P felt shed been  overcharged for conditions  that didnt need to be declared.
Service levels.
Accusation that Mrs P hadnt declared  her husbands stent.
Being told that Mrs Ps response to questions about her hyperactive thyroid  had changed  
from the previous  years  response.
To resolve  this complaint Mrs P would  like a refund of all the increased premiums and 
compensation for customer service received and the time taken  to sort the situation out. 
Our adjudicator said,  in summary:
Having reviewed  UKIs underwriting criteria Mrs P hadnt been overcharged for her declared  
medical conditions. Mrs P was concerned about conflicting information, but our adjudicator 
was confident shed been  charged only for conditions  essential to calculating risk. 
UKI had given feedback and training to its staff whod not provided  the level of service it 
prides itself in. Having listened to the call recordings  from the 2016, 2017 and 2018 renewals  
our adjudicator  didnt make any additional recommendations.
UKI had, in error, not included Mr Ps stent  on the 2015/2016 policy. It had added this at no 
additional cost for that policy year. But this could explain why the 2016/2017 premium had 
increased as Mrs P was being charged for this when the cover had been offered  free of 
charge in the previous policy year.  
Ref: DRN16496155UKI had correctly calculated the premium  for the 2017 and 2018 based on Mrs Ps answers to 
a question about her hyperactive thyroid. The answer  had changed from 2017 to 2018.  When  
Mrs P changed  her answer no additional premium was charged (for 2018).
Mrs P responded to say, in summary:
We had not addressed half of her complaints, if not more:
For the 2013 claim she didnt receive  a claim  breakdown, so didnt  know whether  the correct  
amount was paid. Had she paid an excess, and if so why? They had produced an EHIC. She 
wanted this addressed.  She was paid £150 for the appalling service  during the 2013 claim,  
but the issue did not stop there. It was six months before  any payment was made  and bailiffs 
were threatening  her on a weekly basis. She was amazed we thought this acceptable.
In 2014 she renewed the travel insurance and declared everything.  She asked us to listen to 
the telephone conversation, to show shed told UKI including about her hyperthyroidism 
(overactive thyroid) and Mr Ps stent. Shed paid an additional premium, but this wasnt on the 
correspondence sent to her to show what was covered and in 2015/2016 the aggressive 
woman told her shed not declared  the stent.  
We hadnt  addressed  the misinformation she received about the declared medical  conditions:  
oCystitis  she was told she had to declare it and the following year that she didnt
oProlapsed womb   her doctor said this was slight but UKIs aggressive  call handler 
told her its either  prolapsed it isnt, and then told her it had to be put down for an 
additional charge.
oGlaucoma  Mrs P attended the glaucoma  clinic  at an eye hospital  but doesnt have 
glaucoma. She had slightly high blood pressure in one eye. UKI said there was an 
additional charge, but the following year she was told she didnt have to declare it. 
oHyperthyroidism  shes declared this many times, having had it for 25 years. Its 
gone into remission many times, but when she has blood  tests the levels  are 
sometimes slightly raised. So she takes a small  dose of a medication for this. When  
she spoke to J about  this in 2018 she said it was the same as the previous year. J 
said she didnt have access  to the previous years  quote and then quoted what Mrs P 
had said the previous year.  
oShed been charged for Mr Ps gout and osteoarthritis but they were one and the 
same. 
Our adjudicator looked  into the complaint  further and also spoke with Mrs P. She then issued a new 
opinion letter  in which she partly upheld the complaint.  Our adjudicator said, in summary:
We couldnt look into the 2013 claim complaint because UKI had issued  a final response  letter 
giving Mrs P six months to refer her complaint to this service. Shed  not referred it to us within 
six months. Although  Mrs P said the issue had been ongoing after shed accepted the £150 
compensation this didnt  prevent her from bringing the complaint to us in 2013. 
We appreciated Mrs Ps frustration about having to declare the stent more than once, and that 
UKI had left this off the cover. UKI had agreed to cover  this free for 2015/2016. But Mrs P had 
been inconvenienced by correcting  this with UKI the second year in a row. Mrs P could have 
looked elsewhere  if not happy with the quote, and UKI didnt have to refund the premiums for 
including the stent on the policy. But it should compensate Mrs P for inconvenience. 
UKI had acknowledged its poor service levels and should  offer compensation  for the trouble 
and upset  caused to Mrs P.
Our adjudicator recommended  UKI offer Mrs P £100 compensation for the issue with the stent 
and for poor service levels. 
UKI agreed to offer £100 compensation but Mrs P didnt think wed looked  into all her concerns. She 
explained why, and in doing  so she referred back to her 15 October 2018 email in which  she set out 
full details of her complaint. 
Ref: DRN16496156my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive carefully thought about  Mrs Ps concerns  and Ive asked  our investigator to obtain more 
information from UKI. Having done  so I make the following provisional findings:
2013 claim
Given the time that has elapsed UKI says it cant send me the 2013 final response letter  or the 
information about the claim breakdown. Mrs P says there could be items outstanding, but it might be 
difficult for that to be resolved so many years  later. Mrs P would need to explain what she thinks  is 
outstanding and why this hasnt been raised earlier. 
The current policy says that the £50 excess is not deducted from outpatient  claims where an EHIC 
has been used. 
Mrs P says that problems continued after the final response letter was issued. Im sorry  to hear about 
those problems  and about Mrs Ps comments about court  and bailiffs. The difficulty  I have is that if the 
delay in settling the claim was dealt with in the final response letter from 2013, then thats likely  to 
have mean  Mrs P had six months  to bring her complaint to us. Once UKI accepted the claim it should  
have contacted  any company demanding payment from Mrs P. I dont think have enough  information 
to make an award.   
the medical conditions that Mrs P was asked to declare
Mrs Ps account was linked to her current account. The exact  policy wording  will have changed  over 
time. But in summary she was asked  to call UKI if at the time of booking the trip or purchasing an 
upgrade (such as for an extended trip) she or any insured  person:
Was receiving  in-patient treatment or waiting to receive treatment;  (the later wording  included 
where the insured person was under  investigation or awaiting diagnosis);
Have been prescribed medication  including repeat prescriptions in the last 12 months 
(whether taking  it or not) for anything other than colds, flu, HRT and contraception.
Had any heart or cancer related conditions  diagnosed or treated in the last 12 months.  
I can see from the information provided  by UKI that Mrs P has made  declarations  each year and from 
2014 onwards has paid additional premiums  to cover her and Mr Ps medical conditions.  In some 
years Mrs P has made more  than one declaration.  I can see shes taken reasonable care to tell UKI 
about relevant medical conditions. So I can see why she complained when she was told shed not, in 
fact, told UKI about particular medical conditions. 
Ive reviewed the medical conditions declared. In common with many travel insurers  UKI will use a 
medical scoring process to decide whether to charge an additional premium for medical  conditions.  It 
is largely an automated  process,  based on its knowledge and judgment of the risk presented  by 
stated medical conditions and/or combinations of medical conditions.
Based on what Ive seen I dont think UKI has wrongly  charged Mrs P. Some  of the medical conditions 
she told it about  didnt increase the risk, but some did. Where the rating increased  in other words  
the risk  Mrs P was charged  an additional premium. 
Mrs P has questioned why she was told she had to tell UKI about specific medical conditions  in one 
year and not in the next. I think this would depend on the answers to the questions. For example, if 
shed been given prescription medication  in the previous 12 months then UKI might deem the 
condition a risk. It would  depend on whether  she answered yes or no to the list of questions. 
Ref: DRN16496157Given Mrs Ps concerns  I hope it will help if I respond to the specific points she has raised with some 
comments: 
the 2014  declaration and the stent
UKI says it doesnt now have telephone calls dating back to 2014 but I have seen its internal  notes of 
the declarations  Mrs P made. 
For the policy  year to June 2013/2014 Mrs P told UKI about her hyperthyroidism; glaucoma and 
cystitis. For Mr P she told it about his gout and high blood pressure, and she paid an additional  
premium of £80 to cover  these conditions.
In November 2013 Mrs P did, as she says, tell UKI about Mr Ps cardiac failure and stent (which I 
understand led to the claim in 2013). She paid an additional  premium of £105.04, making the total for 
the year £185.04.
UKI says that Mrs P had changed address  in 2014, and the policy  lapsed in June 2014.  It says she 
later upgraded  her current account (to a Flex Plus account). It says that meant in turn she had a new 
travel insurance  policy with UKI, starting  in March 2015.
I agree that UKI was wrong to tell Mrs P, in 2015, that shed not previously declared the stent,  when 
she had. I can see Mrs Ps concern that the stent  hadnt  been covered even when she had told UKI 
about it previously.  UKI agreed to cover it free of charge until the renewal  date in March 2016. I think 
that was a fair response to the complaint.  It was entitled to charge an additional  premium for the stent 
in subsequent years, where it represented an increased  risk. 
cystitis
Mrs P is concerned  she was told she had to declare cystitis one year but not in other years. 
As Ive mentioned if Mrs P answered yes to any of the above medical declaration  questions then UKI 
would ask her further questions  about that condition. Depending on the answer to those questions  this 
might lead to an additional premium. 
If Mrs P had received  medication in the 12 months of booking the trip then shed need  to tell UKI 
about it. If, the following  year,  it had been more  than 12 months since shed  received prescription  
medication then she wouldnt have to answer  yes to the question.  I hope this explains  why she might 
have had to declare  this one year and not the next. I dont think  shes been  misled by UKI about this. 
prolapsed womb
Im sorry to hear that Mrs P found UKIs  call handler  to be aggressive. I note UKI has said sorry  for 
poor service. Even if it was only a slight prolapse I think UKI was correct to say it had to be declared. 
UKI could then decide whether to accept the risk to cover that condition and it was also entitled to 
charge an additional premium to cover it. 
glaucoma
As above Mrs P would have to declare the glaucoma  (or high blood  pressure in the eye) if she could 
answer yes to one of the above questions. So it is possible shed need  to declare  it one year and not 
the next if shed not had any investigations, for example. Either way Ive reviewed UKIs notes and 
UKI didnt charge any additional premium to cover this condition.
hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid)
If Mrs P had received  medication for her hyperthyroidism  within the last 12 months  (as above) then 
UKI was correct to say she had to declare it. Im sorry to read about the confusion during the June 
Ref: DRN164961582018 call. The call handler said that Mrs Ps answer to the questions  she had asked about signs of 
overactive thyroid had been yes when  it had been no the previous year.  UKI listened  to the previous 
years call as requested, and spoke to Mrs P the following  day. I dont think  UKI was wrong  to base 
any additional  premium  on the answers  that Mrs P had given it in 2018.  When  Mrs P changed her 
answer the premium  was adjusted accordingly.
gout and osteoarthritis
Ive not seen  all the questions that Mrs P was asked about these  conditions and whether Mr Ps 
symptoms were the same for both. But I can see that UKI treated  them  as separate medical 
conditions. Given the conditions arent the same  I dont  think this was unreasonable. 
inconvenience
UKI has accepted its service wasnt always of high standard.  It has apologised  for that and has since 
agreed to offer compensation  of £100 for distress and inconvenience. Given  my findings  I think  thats 
a fair and reasonable amount. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my provisional  decision  is that Im likely to uphold this complaint but 
only in part. I intend to require U K Insurance Limited  to pay Mrs P £100 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience,  as it has offered to do.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1649615