K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained  about  how Bank of Scotland plc (the bank) treated her following the 
banks decision to close her accounts  with the bank, including her current account. 
background
In early 2019 the bank made  the decision to close Miss Ps accounts. It wrote  to her 
informing her of the fact, saying she had 60 days to make alternative banking arrangements  
elsewhere.
Meanwhile the bank said:
There could be no payments into or out of the current account without the banks 
permission, which could  be obtained  via a particular  team in the bank.
Existing direct debits could be paid as long as there was enough money  in the 
account. There could  be no new direct debits.
Bank Giro Credits  would be paid into the account on the morning they were received.
If urgently needed, any other credit payments could be transferred to the account at 
Miss Ps request via the same team in the bank.
In terms of transfers out of the account,  a number of these took place with the banks 
permission. Sometimes Miss P did them by phoning the bank,  sometimes  she had to go to a 
branch with ID to carry them out.
Miss P says the bank treated her unreasonably  with regard to the transfers, for example by 
giving her conflicting information and subjecting her to lengthy phone calls.  She thinks the 
bank took too little account of the needs  of her disabled son, when it made access  to funds 
in the account so difficult. She also says she suffered financial penalties when credits 
werent made to her account  and payments  out of the account failed. This happened  when 
the bank closed the account before the 60 days were up. 
Miss P has also said that she regards  as harassment certain emails shes received from the 
bank. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  the bank had treated Miss P 
unfairly. After considering  the evidence including listening  to phone call recordings,  she 
concluded, in summary,  that the bank  had informed Miss P how she could  make  payments 
into and out of the account pending  closure, and the bank had taken reasonable steps to 
facilitate those payments.  She noted the bank had mistakenly continued to send emails to 
Miss P about the account, but that the bank had now stopped  doing  so. 
Miss P didnt accept  the investigators  conclusions. She has referred in particular to the 
banks closure of the account before 60 days which caused her difficulties and penalties, as 
well as to the harassing emails. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss P but I 
havent upheld  her complaint.
Ref: DRN14594442The bank had the right to close  the accounts,  and I think that 60 days were  enough for 
Miss P to open a current account with another bank. 
In terms of how the bank  treated Miss P between deciding to close the account  and closure,  
Ive looked at this as a whole, to decide  if I think the bank behaved fairly. 
Ive concluded,  like the investigator, that the bank behaved reasonably  overall. Of course 
there were restrictions imposed by the bank  which I think in the circumstances it was 
reasonable for the bank  to impose  but within those limits I think the bank tried its best to 
facilitate the payments Miss P wished to make and treated her courteously and 
considerately. 
Regarding the bank  closing the account before the 60 days  had passed, I cant be sure 
exactly what was said and agreed between Miss P and the bank. But when the bank had 
given notice of closure  within 60 days and Miss P then chose to completely  withdraw  the 
credit balances in the accounts, the obvious interpretation to place on that is that the 
accounts were being closed.  I dont think I have any basis for criticising  the bank for taking 
that view at the time.
Regarding the emails  that Miss P continued to receive for a while  after the deemed closure 
of the account,  I dont  think  I can fairly  class that as harassment by the bank. Harassment 
must include an intention  to harm, and in this case the emails continued to go to Miss P 
because of a mistake or oversight  of the bank.  I dont  think it warrants  an award of 
compensation. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint. I think in all the circumstances Bank of Scotland plc 
treated her fairly. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1459444