K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr M took three loans  with Uncle Buck between December  2012 and April 2013. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest  
Repayment
1 23/12/2012 25/01/2013 1 £300.00 £404.85
2 25/01/2013 25/02/2013 1 £450.00 £607.28
3 23/04/2013 24/05/2013 1 £450.00 £607.28
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint, concluding  Uncle  Buck shouldnt have given Mr M 
loans 2 or 3. Uncle Buck  disagreed and the case has now been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  had to assess Mr Ms applications for borrowing  to check if he could afford  to 
pay back the amounts  hed borrowed  without  undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Uncle Bucks checks  could have taken into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the size of the 
repayments and Mr Ms income  and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have  been  proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  Uncle Buck should  have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr M. These  factors include:
Mr M having  a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
The amounts  to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr M having  a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming  back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive  of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
Ref: DRN10905512Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough  money  to make his repayments.  Having enough  
money to make the repayments could of course  be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay 
his loans sustainably.  But it doesnt  automatically  follow that this is the case. The FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  states payments are sustainable if they are made 
without undue difficulties  and in particular, made on time, while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to make them. If a lender realises, or ought 
reasonably to have  realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude  those  repayments  are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator concluded proportionate  checks  would have revealed Mr M had a number of 
other short-term loans with other lenders which were outstanding when he applied for loan 2. 
She argued  this was evidence that Mr M was having problems managing  his money  and, 
given the amounts outstanding to other  lenders, loans 2 and 3 were unaffordable for him in 
any event.
Uncle Buck  has said it undertook a number of checks but it hasnt  provided  the results  of 
those checks so I cant say what it would have seen in relation to Mr Ms short term lending 
situation. It is possible that it may not have seen  the 5 loans he had taken out immediately 
preceding the Uncle  Buck  loan but his historical short term borrowing would have been 
visible and should  have led to further checks.
Its clear from the information  Mr Ms provided to this service that he had a large  amount of 
other short-term borrowing at around  the time he was borrowing from Uncle  Buck. Enough,  
in my view,  to give a responsible lender serious concerns about  the way he was managing  
his finances and the sustainability of any prospective lending for him.
Mr M asked  to borrow an increased amount for loan 2 on the day that loan 1 was repaid. The 
repayment for this loan was £607.28 which was a significant proportion  of the disposable 
income that Mr D said he had. This pattern of borrowing would suggest that Mr M couldnt 
afford the repayment  on loan 1 without borrowing further. I think  Uncle  Buck should have 
gone further to establish  whether  Mr M was reliant on short  term lending  at this stage and I 
cant see that it did this.
The position  is the same  for loan 3. Although there is a gap in the borrowing Mr M is again  
borrowing the same  amount as for loan 2 which is a significant repayment. I think  that the 
signs were there that Mr M was having  difficulty managing  his finances and was reliant on 
short term credit. This was Mr Ms third loan in four months which  suggested he was often 
running out of money.
 
In light of this I think more robust checking  of Mr Ms other short-term commitments  would 
also have been  proportionate before granting loan 3.
As I suggested earlier in this decision,  I think such checks would have revealed Mr M had 
enough other short-term  lending  to lead to serious  concerns about the management  of his 
finances and whether  any further  loans he was given would be sustainable.  I dont think  a 
responsible lender would  have given Mr M loan 3 either if it had this knowledge. It follows 
Ref: DRN10905513that I dont  think Uncle  Buck  would have given Mr M loans 2 and 3 had it carried  out 
proportionate checks, and was therefore  wrong to give him these loans.
I note what Uncle Buck says about Mr Ms occupation and the assumptions it has made  
about the likely or appropriate state of his finances. I dont think this is enough  to say that the 
lending decision was reasonable. This wasnt something it took into consideration at the time 
and it doesnt  mean  that proportionate  checks  didnt need to be carried  out. Mr M needed the 
loans because of the difficult situation he was in and Uncle Buck  should  have done more to 
check his finances  given his borrowing pattern. 
putting things right
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr M loans 2 and 3, so its not right that he should have 
had to pay interest, fees or charges on this, or have it affect his credit  file in a negative way. 
So to put things Uncle Buck should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  2 and 3
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 and 3 from Mr Ms credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
should give Mr M a certificate  showing how much  tax its deducted,  if Mr M asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP to take the actions outlined in the putting things right section.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1090551