K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) failed to settle  the sale of units  in an
OEIC fund.
background
Mr L gave instructions for units  in an OEIC fund to be sold and requested  the proceeds to be
sent to his linked bank  account. Mr L did not receive  the funds and was notified  that they had
been sent by cheque. The cheque was sent and cashed but Mr L says he didnt receive  it. It
is agreed that the cheque was likely intercepted and cashed by a third party. Mr L says that
had Barclays followed his instructions, he would have received the proceeds.  He would like
Barclays to compensate him for the lost proceeds of £23,841.61  along with interest.
Barclays say theyve  done nothing wrong. They processed the sale in line with the request
but did not hold bank  details for Mr L so were unable to pay funds directly into a bank
account. A request for information was made in the contract note, but as no response  was
received and in order  to avoid delay, a cheque was sent by post. Barclays  say they
contacted the receiving  bank for them to investigate.
Our investigators considered the complaint.  The first investigator upheld  the complaint. He
thought Barclays  werent  clear about  the information  needed to verify the account and didnt
give Mr L enough time for that information  to be provided before sending a cheque.  Had they
followed Mr Ls instructions, the funds  would have been transferred into his account. The
investigator recommended that the surrender proceeds should be paid to Mr L with interest.
In response to further comments, a second investigator reviewed the complaint. She decided
not to uphold it. Our investigator thought Mr L hadnt given details of an account  in which to
pay the funds  and it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays  to ask for further  information  to verify
an account. She thought the contract  note explained the requirement for further verification
and noted that no documents were  provided.  Our investigator thought  a different cheque had
been issued to Mr L in June so he should have been aware of the process. Further our
investigator considered  that Mr Ls representative  didnt contact Barclays  until 10 days  after
the settlement  date,  by which time the cheque had already been cashed. And when Barclays
had discovered  that something went wrong,  our investigator thought  that Barclays  had taken
appropriate steps to contact the receiving bank.  Overall,  she didnt think Barclays had done
anything wrong.
Mr L didnt agree with the outcome. He remained of the view that he would have received
the remittance  but for the errors made by Barclays.
I wrote  a provisional decision in February 2020,  in which I decided  to uphold the complaint. I 
explained that Id reached my findings on balance of probabilities by considering the 
particular facts of this case.
Barclays said they didnt  have verified  bank  account  details for Mr L so couldnt transfer the
funds electronically.  It didnt appear to be disputed that Mr L held a Barclays account
at the time, but there was nothing to show that any particular  account was linked with the
investment and no account  details were set out in the original request. I agreed that it wasnt
unreasonable for Barclays to ask for verification information.
The time line was critical.  It wasnt disputed  that Barclays acted on the request for full
redemption of all units held in the investment fund. This was actioned on 6 September and a
Ref: DRN19313472contract note was generated. It confirmed a settlement date for the funds on 13 September.
The contract note also set out a quote  as at 7 September. It was unclear which date the
contract note was sent but given the information  contained within it, I thought  it was likely to 
have been sent around  7 September to Mr Ls representative. That meant  the letter would 
not have been received and considered until at least the next working day, which  would have
been Monday  10 September;  the representatives said that the contract  note was received by
them on 11 September.
Barclays then wrote directly to Mr L, under cover of letter dated 11 September,  saying he
had failed to provide documentation to show an account in his name and a cheque would be
sent in due course. The cheque was sent with a letter dated 13 September and was posted
on 14 September.
Mr L told his representative he hadnt  received the funds and I listened to the call on 24 
September, where Mr Ls representative spoke to Barclays directly to find out where  the 
funds were. He was informed that the cheque  would have been posted on 14 September 
and could take at least 10 business days to be received, so Mr L should wait until
28 September. The representative  was advised that if the cheque  had not been  received by
that time a bank  transfer could be made or a replacement cheque could be issued. Barclays
were therefore mistaken when they say that no contact was made  with them  until October.
On 5 October,  Mr Ls representative contacted Barclays  again to say the cheque  had not
been received.  He was informed that the cheque had been cashed on 21 September.
I thought the issues were  factually straightforward. The information within the contract  note 
said,
The amount payable  will be sent in accordance with your instructions. However,  we cannot
make any payment until we have  received  any outstanding  renunciation or investor
verification documentation. Please contact our Fund  Servicing Centre with any queries. . .
I took that information to mean  that the instruction  to remit funds electronically into a bank
account was being followed, albeit some verification documents might be required. But in the
absence of documentation being  provided,  no payment would be made.  There was nothing
within the contract note to explain that a cheque would  be issued as a default option.
I wasnt satisfied that Barclays gave adequate time for a response  to the contract  note to be
received, given the timeline I set out above. And I didnt think  it was clear  what verification 
documentation was required. I also considered that the contract  note was sent to a 
representative. By the time that was received, the letter  of 11 September  was sent to
Mr L. The letter of 11 September said that documentation had not been received to show
that the bank account was held in Mr Ls name, therefore to avoid  a delay in releasing the
proceeds a cheque will be sent to your registered address on the due settlement date, as
detailed in your contract note. It appeared this letter was also sent by post,  so by the time it
had likely been received (allowing two days deemed  service  for first class post), the cheque
had already been issued.  The information within the letter of 11 September also suggested
that the cheque would have been sent to the representative as this was the address on the
contract note. Barclays hadnt  provided  a copy of the covering letter  sent with the cheque
and hadnt been able to evidence that the cheque was indeed  posted.
There was no suggestion that Mr L or his representative said time was of the essence  in this
Ref: DRN19313473matter, so I placed little weight  on Barclays assertion  that they had to issue  a cheque as 
they were trying to avoid  delay. Barclays made  the unilateral decision to send a substantial
remittance by cheque, contrary to the written instructions they had received. I understood
that a cheque had been issued to Mr L in June,  but I didnt think  that helped me. The timeline 
meant that Mr L didnt  have time to respond until after the cheque was issued  and even if he 
had approached Barclays earlier than 24 September there was nothing to show that 
Barclays would have  taken any different  steps  as in the call on 24 September,  they told Mr 
Ls representative  to take no action.
I couldnt see that Barclays acted promptly when they were notified  that the cheque  hadnt 
been received.  They  didnt make  enquiries  to see whether the cheque had been  cashed on 
24 September, when  they were first notified it hadnt been  received. Neither  were  steps  
taken on 5 October,  when they were  again informed that the cheque  hadnt been cashed by 
Mr L. It appeared that Barclays didnt contact the receiving  bank  until much later. And when  
Mr Ls representative asked for guidance,  they were  advised not to go to the police as the 
matter was being investigated by Barclays.
Having listened  to the calls between Barclays and Mr Ls representatives, I thought Barclays
gave the misleading impression  that they would be reimbursing  Mr L. Unusually, it was clear
there was disappointment  on both sides when the final decision to refuse  the complaint was
delivered by phone.
Barclays didnt follow Mr Ls instructions when they issued  a cheque and they didnt give
adequate time for verification documents to be provided. In my view,  had the payment been
made electronically, it was more  likely  than not that Mr L would have received his funds.
And when  Barclays were informed that the cheque  hadnt been  received, they didnt  take
prompt steps to contact the receiving bank. The result of these shortcomings was that Mr L
remained without his funds. 
On the particular facts  of this case, I considered that it would be fair and reasonable for
Barclays to reimburse Mr L for £23, 841.61  along  with 8% interest per annum from the date 
the payment could  have been received to date of settlement.
The parties have  now received the provisional  decision. Mr L has nothing further to add. 
Barclays disagree with the outcome I have reached. Whilst  they accept the timing around 
responding to the requests for information  was a little tight,  they say Mr L or his 
representative could  have called to stop the cheque. Barclays maintain  that they did nothing 
wrong in saying it could take up to 10 business  days for the cheque to be received. They say 
it is highly  unlikely that they could  have retrieved the funds at an earlier time. They suggest 
that accountability lies with the receiving  bank.
Ive now reconsidered  everything in order to reach  a final decision.
my findings
I have thought carefully about this matter  and the specific  facts.  I appreciate  that Barclays 
say they havent done  anything wrong, but its not disputed  that Mr L had not asked for a 
cheque to be issued.  It remains  my view that the timeline is important here.  I am not satisfied 
that Mr L had time to respond to Barclays  before the cheque was issued. When steps were 
taken to follow up payment by that method, reassurance was given by Barclays and they 
said that funds  would  be paid by bank  transfer  or further cheque, if the first cheque wasnt 
Ref: DRN19313474received. No efforts were  made to contact the receiving bank until well after the funds were 
withdrawn. And as Ive said, unusually the calls between Barclays  and Mr Ls representative, 
indicate that Barclays said police involvement was not required.  So I dont think it is fair and 
reasonable to say that Mr L should  have done something different.
Im not persuaded to change my outcome, so for the reasons  given  in my provisional 
decision and above, it remains  my view that Barclays should put things right for Mr L as 
recommended in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
reimburse Mr L for £23, 841.61 along  with 8% interest per annum from the date the payment 
could have been received  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1931347