K820x#14complaint and background
Mr G complains that Everyday Lending Limited,  trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without  carrying  out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded, as well as any negative  information 
removed from his credit file.
Ive attached my provisional decision from March 2021, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out the reasons why I wasnt planning to 
uphold this complaint.  In brief that was because I thought the checks  that Everyday 
Loans carried out went far enough and didnt suggest that the lending was 
unsustainable for Mr G.
I asked both Mr G and Everyday Loans to let me have any more information they 
wanted me to consider. Everyday Loans hasnt responded, but Mr G has explained 
why he doesnt  accept my findings  he clearly feels strongly that Everyday Loans 
was required to check more than it did. And if it had done more checks, it would have 
seen that the lending  was unsustainable for him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it, and 
Ill reiterate why.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr G described  proper checks... as a legal 
requirement and that proper checks would have presented  a full picture of his 
circumstances.
This isnt quite right. The regulations in force required potential  lenders to carry out 
proportionate checks  and prescribed nothing more  so the exact nature and depth of 
checks that need to be carried out in order to be proportionate vary from lending decision to 
lending decision.  There was and is no automatic requirement for a lender to, for example,  
verify what a customer is telling them, or review bank statements.
Mr G also says that him being  at the start of a lending relationship with Everyday Loans 
ought to mean more  in-depth checks are required than if a relationship has been 
established. In certain  circumstances,  that may indeed be the case. But I dont  believe  that is 
so here.  Mr G seems to be implying  that Everyday  Loans shouldnt  have been allowed to 
rely on the information he was giving it. I disagree.  It had no reason to suppose that Mr G 
wasnt being forthcoming, particularly as his disclosures  were borne out by other information 
it gathered. I certainly dont think it would have been  fair or reasonable for Everyday Loans 
to assume that Mr G was concealing information and have treated him thus. He also 
mentions having  experienced  mental health  issues at this time, which  Im sorry to hear. But I 
cant see that Everyday  Loans would have  been reasonably aware  of that, or that it should  
have treated him any differently  as a result.
In the circumstances of this case,  and this particular lending decision, I find the checks 
carried out by Everyday Loans were  proportionate  and didnt need to go any further.  It took a 
Ref: DRN17677752lot of detail from Mr G, which was shown to be accurate following the result of the credit  
check it undertook. There was nothing to flag the need for anything  more in-depth,  and the 
available information  suggested the borrowing  would be sustainable  for Mr G.
It follows, therefore, that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in the attached provisional decision, I do not 
uphold this complaint and Everyday Loans does not need to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN17677753copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr G complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him irresponsibly  
and without carrying  out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges 
associated with the loan refunded, as well as any negative information removed from his credit file.
background
In November 2017 Everyday Loans approved  a loan of £2,500  for Mr G, which  was scheduled  
to be repaid at approximately  £147 per month over a term of 36 months.  The loan was intended 
to consolidate debt. When assessing the application, Everyday  Loans asked Mr G about  his 
financial circumstances and carried out a credit  check before  approving the lending.
Mr G made his monthly repayments as planned  until April 2019 when he settled  the loan in full.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought that Everyday Loans  should have carried 
out more in-depth  checks when assessing whether this loan was affordable for Mr G. He 
thought that, if it had carried  out more checks, Everyday Loans would have found  that the 
lending wasnt affordable  or sustainable. Everyday Loans disagreed, highlighting that the 
information it had suggested this loan was sustainable for Mr G, and asked an ombudsman to 
look at his case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently not planning to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Mr G clearly feels strongly about his complaint  and says that Everyday Loans should have carried 
out further checks before  approving his loan, rather than just relying  on what he told it.
But I need to first look at what information Everyday Loans had when considering Mr Gs loan 
application, and then what  information it should have gathered,  given what it knew about Mr G 
and his circumstances.
Did Everyday  Loans checks go far enough?
Everyday Loans asked Mr G about his income and expenditure. He disclosed  monthly  earnings of 
£1,560 and outgoings of £2,181. Those outgoings were broken down into several categories, 
including housing costs,  general living expenses, and amounts  needed to service other debts. 
£1,435 of Mr Gs declared outgoings came under this final category. So, based on what  Mr G told it 
about his financial situation,  Everyday Loans was well aware that his declared outgoings 
significantly exceeded his income   by about £620. The credit check it carried out showed 
Everyday Loans that Mr G had provided  a highly accurate picture of his debts. In fact, I can see a 
detailed assessment  on the application file of each  of his debts at the time, showing  settlement 
figures and monthly  repayments.
But the reason behind the detailed review of his debts at the time was that this loan was intended  
to consolidate a significant proportion  of those debts and so make his monthly  outgoing more 
manageable. So whilst a superficial look at income  and expenditure at the point of application  
shows a very concerning picture, in fact, Everyday Loans documented which of Mr Gs debts were  
to be consolidated with this loan, and how that would impact on his monthly expenditure.
Ref: DRN17677754In brief, the intention behind this loan was to reduce Mr Gs total monthly  repayment bill by just over 
£800. The calculations demonstrating that saving  are sound, based on the information  in the credit  
check, and it was reasonable for Everyday Loans to be satisfied that providing this loan would, in 
fact, leave Mr G with a disposable income  of around £185, as a result of reducing his monthly 
repayment bill by such  a large  amount.  That was a dramatically improved  position, and indicated 
that repaying this loan would have  been  sustainable for Mr G.
I accept that the information  Everyday Loans had, in the form of Mr Gs disclosures and the credit 
check it completed, might  not have actually  presented  a full picture of Mr Gs circumstances. But 
Everyday Loans wasnt advancing a particularly large  sum of money  and it was at the very start of 
a lending relationship with Mr G. In these circumstances, it was entitled to trust and rely on the 
information he gave it, which, as Ive already set out, was shown to be highly accurate according to 
the detail of the credit  check.
Overall, there was nothing to suggest that Everyday Loans  needed  to carry  out further 
checks based  on what it knew  about  Mr G. And on the basis of what it knew,  it was 
reasonable for it to conclude  that this borrowing was sustainable for him.
It therefore  follows that I dont  plan to uphold this complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not planning to uphold this complaint.
Both Mr G and Everyday Loans have until 19 March 2021 to provide me with any further comments  
or evidence  before I reach a final decision.
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1767775