K820x#14Complaint
Mr F and Mrs H have  complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold their mortgage 
endowment plan with critical illness cover.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Mr F and Mrs H have  said they werent made aware the total and permanent disability 
(TPD) benefit was only available to them up to the age of 60. This meant the benefit  ended 
around two years before their mortgage  and endowment plan ended. Theyve  said this 
renders the policy useless and they would have sought cover elsewhere had this been 
drawn to their attention.
The plan was sold to Mr F and Mrs H in 1997.  So, it isnt surprising that their sales 
documents arent available. HSBC have said Mr F and Mrs H wouldve been  given a policy  
brochure  a copy of which Ive seen   before they made their decision to proceed  with the 
plan. I cant know for certain whether or not they saw this, but I think it was most likely 
provided to them  I dont think its likely the plan wouldve been sold without  any information 
having been given to them about  the benefits  it provided. The brochure  highlights that 
eligibility for the TPD benefit ended at age 60. So, on balance,  I think  Mr F and Mrs H were 
given enough  information about how the policy worked at the time of the sale.
Even if I was persuaded that Mr F and Mrs H werent provided  with the brochure at the time, 
I dont think they wouldve  done  anything differently if the limits  of the TPD benefit had 
specifically been  drawn to their attention. I say this because the TPD benefit was one of 
many that the policy provided. The plan was also due to run for 25 years. I dont think its 
likely Mr F and Mrs H wouldve decided against taking the policy out just because  one of the 
benefits was only available  to them for 23 years instead of 25 years.
I also dont think its likely  Mr F or Mrs H couldve found more comprehensive cover 
elsewhere. At the time,  policies of this nature generally limited  the TPD benefit  up to age 60. 
So, I dont think theyve  been disadvantaged by taking the policy  with HSBC.
Mr F and Mrs H have  said they paid extra for the TPD benefit,  despite not being able to use 
it for the full term. But Im satisfied that it was part of the critical illness cover attached to the 
endowment plan, and they didnt pay extra for it.
I know that Mr F and Mrs H are disappointed that theyll soon not be able to claim the TPD 
benefit, particularly  as Mr F has some health concerns at the moment. But I dont think 
HSBC has treated them unfairly. So, Im not upholding  this complaint.
Ref: DRN18336792My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1833679