K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about the service  provided  under her home emergency insurance policy 
with Aviva Insurance Limited. 
background
Mrs B is unhappy with the service she received after the business carried  out its annual  
boiler service. After the service the engineer  couldnt get the boiler  working and said a new 
part was needed.  After the engineer left, Mrs Bs daughter noticed that there was a gas leak. 
The gas supplier came out with another engineer from Aviva. They found the leak and 
identified a part that needed to be replaced. However, it appears that the wrong part was 
ordered; Mrs B was told it was obsolete  and so the boiler would have to be replaced. Mrs B 
was also told shed  have  to remove kitchen cupboards, as she was also told that the new 
boiler would  have to be repositioned. Mrs B removed some of the kitchen cupboards and 
had the new boiler  installed. However, this advice was all apparently  incorrect   the boiler 
was repairable  and the replacement boiler  was put in exactly  the same  place as the old 
boiler. 
Mrs B is extremely unhappy with the way her claim was dealt with. The boiler could have 
been repaired but instead she was put to the trouble and expense of replacing it. She was 
also instructed to remove kitchen units unnecessarily and hasn't found  replacements  that 
match the rest of the kitchen. Mrs B also says that the engineers  were  rude,  made mistakes 
and caused a gas leak; wrong  parts were  ordered  and there were several re-quotes, during 
which time she was left without heating or hot water for around six weeks.  
Aviva accepts that the part which  its engineer  said was obsolete  was in fact available  and 
the boiler could  therefore have been repaired. It also accepts  therefore  that Mrs B was 
unnecessarily subjected to a period of weeks without  heating and hot water and that she 
should not have been told to remove kitchen cupboards. 
Aviva has apologised  and has offered  to pay Mrs B a total of £4,466.99.  This is made  up of 
£2,419.59 for the installation costs, £963 for the damage to the kitchen, £84.40 for phone 
calls and £1,000  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs B does not consider that this is sufficient to reflect  the distress and inconvenience  
caused. She also asks that Aviva cover  the cost of replacing all of the other kitchen units,  so 
that she can have  a matching kitchen.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  the complaint be 
upheld, as she considered that Aviva had already made a reasonable offer in full and final 
settlement of the complaint.  
Mrs B does not accept  the investigators  assessment  and so the matter  has been referred to 
me. 
Mrs B has made a number of submissions, in her initial complaint and in response  to the 
investigator. I have  summarised her submissions  below: 
she was distressed to find out she'd have to pay for the installation  of the new boiler 
as this wouldnt be covered by the policy. 
Ref: DRN16663492There was then considerable back-and-forth due to mistakes having been made on 
the quotations for the work.
One engineer  made inappropriate comments about selling her house, amongst other 
things. 
She has not been able to find new units that match those removed, as the kitchen is 
no longer being  made. So the amount offered by Aviva for the replacement of the 
cupboards that she had removed  - at its instruction - wont  match the remaining  units.  
As a result, she is left with a mismatched kitchen through no fault of her own.
She had to pay for the labour costs of installing the new boiler up front.  While that 
has now been reimbursed, it forced her into financial hardship. 
She had to move into her daughters home,  as she could not stay in the house  
without a working boiler. 
Mrs B has asked  for a further £5,000 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from reading the file that Mrs B has had a terrible ordeal and this has caused her 
considerable upheaval, distress and inconvenience,  as well as . 
Aviva has accepted that it is responsible  and there  does not appear to be any dispute about 
the facts of the case. It is for me simply  to determine what  is required to put right what  went 
wrong. 
Aviva has reimbursed Mrs B for the cost of installing the new boiler and also the cost of 
phone calls. It has also paid for the replacement kitchen units, based on an invoice provided 
by Mrs B for units  she is satisfied  are a suitable replacement.  I consider this reasonable. Mrs 
B also wants Aviva to pay for the replacement  of the remaining kitchen units, which  remain  
intact but will no longer  be an exact  match with the new ones.  
I have considered the photographs provided, which show that the new units are plain white, 
flat-fronted doors. The new units are also separate from all the other  existing units, its a 
group of three floor units on a separate wall away from any other units. The existing kitchen 
consisted of cupboards with brown  formica  doors  and white drawer fronts. The new and old 
units do not match but the overall  appearance is that they coordinate, and overall  I do 
consider that it is not unattractive or harmful in appearance. I do accept that this is not 
necessarily the appearance Mrs B wanted or was used to. 
Mrs Bs and her daughter has said she would like to replace all the cupboards  but couldnt 
face the additional upheaval at present. She has provided a quote  for the cost of replacing 
the remaining  cupboards. However, it does seem to me that replacing the entire  kitchen 
would result in betterment for Mrs B  i.e. that her position (in terms of the condition  of her 
kitchen) would  be better than it was before the error made by Aviva.  
Aviva has paid for new cupboards, which coordinate well with the existing kitchen to be 
supplied and fitted, to replace the ones that were  unnecessarily removed. I consider this 
reasonable and do not consider that it also needs  to pay for the cost of replacing the 
remaining kitchen cupboards. 
Ref: DRN16663493I agree  that an additional payment of compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by this matter  is warranted, which would also take account  of the fact Mrs Bs kitchen 
no longer matches.  I have  considered  all the circumstances, including the anxiety caused by 
finding the gas leak; the upheaval of having to remove the cupboards  and having  the 
unnecessary work done; not having a matching kitchen; and the period of time spent without  
heating and hot water, during which Mrs B had to stay with her daughter, among other 
things. Overall, I consider  that the payment  of £1,000, taken together with the financial 
reimbursement to Mrs B, is reasonable in all the circumstances and is in line with awards  
made in similar cases. I do not consider that Aviva needs to make any additional payment.   
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  as having  considered all the evidence available,  it is my opinion 
that Aviva  Insurance Limited has made  a reasonable offer in full and final settlement  of the 
complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1666349