K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr G took out in 2001.  It was added  to his
account when  he applied for his card by post.
Our adjudicator did not find that the policy had been  mis-sold. Mr G disagreed with the 
adjudicators conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclaycard made  it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because the credit card application form Mr G signed 
was completed to show that he wanted the PPI. Mr G says he doesnt remember 
ticking the box, and given the amount of time thats passed I can understand that. But 
without anything else to support  what  Mr G has told me, I dont  think  I can fairly  say 
that Barclaycard  didnt  make  him aware that the PPI was optional.
 
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr G got the information  he needed to decide  if 
it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclaycard  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:  
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Barclaycard didnt tell Mr G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN10728722my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does have to pay back  to Mr G any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1072872