K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about six instalment loans  he took with Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream). He says the loans were unaffordable. 
background
Lending Stream provided Mr C with six instalment loans  between June 2017 and July 2018.  
Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream  hadnt done anything  wrong  when providing  Mr C 
with his first five loans.  But he also thought that Lending  Stream  shouldnt  have provided  
loan six to Mr C. So he partially  upheld Mr Cs complaint.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. But Mr C disagreed. He thought his whole 
complaint should  have  been upheld. As Mr C disagreed with our adjudicator, the case was 
passed for an ombudsmans decision.  
As both parties already  agree Mr C shouldnt have been given loan six, this decision is only 
looking at whether Mr C should  have been  provided with loans one to five.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I think that what Lending Stream  has already 
agreed to do put things  right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. So I dont  think Lending Stream has treated Mr C unfairly or that it should pay him any 
more compensation.  Id like to explain  why I think this is the case.
Mr C was provided with high-interest loans, intended  for short-term use. So Lending  Stream  
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr C before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream says it relied on what Mr C said about having a monthly disposable income 
which was enough  to comfortably make the repayments to loans one to five. And based on 
all of this it thought it was reasonable to provide  these loans. On the other hand, Mr C says 
his loan history in itself demonstrated that he was in financial difficulty and that he shouldnt 
have been lent to much sooner than loan six. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr C and Lending Stream have said.  
Ref: DRN10842072Its important to note that when Mr C applied for his first five loans,  he had no previous 
borrowing history with Lending Stream. And I cant see anything to suggest that Lending  
Stream had reason to question the information  Mr C had provided. Ive also seen what  Mr C 
has said about the effect making the payments  to these  loans  had on his finances. But Mr C 
was provided with instalment loans where  he was required to make payments over a number 
of months.  He wasnt required to settle the loans  in full when he next got paid in the way that 
he might  have had to if hed had a payday  loan. 
I accept that Mr C ended up paying  loans earlier making quite  large payments to settle  the 
entire balance  on more than one occasion. But as Mr C chose  to make much larger 
payments and then take out further loans soon after, its difficult for me to say that the 
scheduled payments  were  demonstrably unsustainable and that they then forced him into 
taking further  loans. Of course a borrower  taking  out instalment loans and then repaying 
them in this way can sometimes  be an indication of an underlying problem. But Ive not seen 
enough evidence  to persuade me that that was more  likely than not the case here.  And, in 
any event, I dont think its the case that Lending  Stream ought reasonably to have been 
aware of this by the time of loan five either. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think that the pattern of lending  had, in itself, become 
demonstrably unsustainable  or harmful  such that I could reasonably say that the facts  
spoke for themselves by the time of loan five. In my view,  there  might  have been some 
warning signs but I think that its only by the time of loan six that Lending Stream  ought  fairly 
and reasonably to have  realised that an emerging pattern had become established and that 
the lending was demonstrably unsustainable.  
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything, Im not upholding the complaint 
about loans one to five. And it follows that Im satisfied that what Lending  Stream  has 
already agreed  to do (in terms of putting things right for loan six) is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Cs case.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think what Gain Credit LLC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1084207