K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Gain  Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream  (Lending  Stream), irresponsibly lent 
to him. He says Lending Stream shouldnt have lent to him and as a result his credit  rating  
has been badly  affected. 
background
This complaint is about three short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Mr A between  
August 2012 and January  2013.  Mr As borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 10/08/2012 21/09/2012 6 £455.00
2 26/10/2012 15/12/2012 6 £455.00
3 25/01/2013 18/09/2015 6 £455.00
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint and didnt think  Lending Stream  had 
irresponsibly lent to him. Mr A disagreed.
As the complaint remain unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN12622432But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint. I dont  think Lending Stream  was 
wrong to lend to Mr A. Ill explain why.
Given what Mr A told Lending Stream about his income, his history  with the business and 
the repayment amounts, I dont think it would have  been  proportionate  for Lending Stream  to 
have asked Mr A for further information that would be needed to show  that the lending was 
unsustainable for him. 
For all the loan applications Mr A confirmed that his monthly income was £1,480 and his 
monthly expenditure was £200  - £300.  This left Mr A with a disposable income each month 
of around £1,200 compared to monthly  loan repayments of £167. So, I dont think  there 
would have been any reason for Lending  Stream to have looked  further  into Mr As financial 
circumstances at such an early period of his borrowing relationship. 
Lending Stream has told us it carried  out credit checks at the outset of its relationship with 
Mr A but it hasnt given  us a copy of those checks.  Mr A has been able to give us a copy of 
his credit reports, but I note these start from January 2013 so arent a reflection of anything  
Lending Stream may have seen at the outset of the borrowing  relationship. And Im also 
aware that the information a prospective lender can obtain form a credit  check isnt the same  
as the information Mr A may have seen from his own credit report. 
Ref: DRN12622433Ive also looked  at the pattern of lending Mr A had with Lending Stream to see if there was a 
point at which Lending Stream should  reasonably have seen that further  loans were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful so it shouldnt have given Mr A any further loans. 
But given the particular circumstances of Mr As case, I dont think this point was reached. 
There were three loans over a period of about five months. I dont think that the pattern of 
lending in itself was such that Lending  Stream should have realised that Mr A may have 
been struggling with his finances and the loans were becoming  unsustainable. 
Its possible that Mr As financial circumstances werent correctly  reflected in the information 
he provided, or the information Lending  Stream  obtained as a result of the credit  checks.  
And Mr As actual financial position  may well have been apparent if further information  
such as bank statement  or more in-depth  credit checks   had been obtained.
But Lending  Stream could  only make  a decision based on the information it had available  at 
the time.  And as it was still in the early stages  of the lending relationship, I dont think  it 
reached the stage  where there  was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mr A. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Lending  Stream needed to take further  steps to verify 
the information provided  such as asking Mr A for evidence of his income  and outgoing 
which Lending Stream  could  have  gathered  from his bank statement or copies of any bills. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  Lending Stream did for these 
loans were proportionate. I think its decision to lend to Mr A was reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1262243