K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about the advice that she states that she received from Park Hall 
Financial Services Limited  to transfer her existing pension benefit to a Self-Invested  
Personal Pension (SIPP)  so that she could  invest in Harlequin Property Ltd (overseas 
properties that were  never built). She states that the investment  was unsuitable for her.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision issued on 7 October 
2019. A copy of this document is attached  and forms part of this my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My initial findings were set out in my provisional  decision. In this I stated that I was minded  to 
reject the complaint and to make  no award.
The business accepted my provisional  findings and Mrs T made no further comments.
Having reconsidered  all of the submissions again I have reached the same conclusion  as I 
did in my provisional decision and for the same  reasons. I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Park Hall Financial Services Limited and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Adrian Hudson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN17130522PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED  7 OCTOBER 2019 
complaint
Mrs T has complained about  the advice that she states that she received from Park Hall 
Financial Services  Limited to transfer her existing  pension benefit to a Self-Invested Personal  
Pension (SIPP) so that she could  invest in Harlequin  Property Ltd (overseas properties that 
were never built). She states that the investment  was unsuitable for her.
background
In August 2009 Mr and Mrs T were introduced  to an adviser at Park Hall by another  business. Mr 
and Mrs T state  that they had recently decided  to move away from buy-to-let properties  after some 
10 years of successful investing.
Mr and Mrs T were  introduced to Harlequin  Property which was developing  properties  in the 
Caribbean. Mr and Mrs T have  told this service  that they had been to the island recently  and 
believed that the area was ripe for development. Harlequin  was to build  a sizeable  hotel and Mr and 
Mrs T had bought two units for cash.
Mr and Mrs T then went  on a pre-opening visit to see the development. It was on one of these  
visits that Mr and Mrs T state that they saw that a number of purchases in the development  
were being  made  by other investors using Self-invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs).
It appears that after this Mr and Mrs T sought ways of investing their pension  funds in the 
development. This was complicated and Mrs T states  that she approached Park Hall for advice 
on whether the transfer of her existing  pensions  into this development  was a good idea.
On 6 September 2009 Mr and Mrs T wrote to Park Hall saying that they were  currently purchasing 
Harlequin Property and that they had realised that the property could be held in SIPP 
arrangement.
Mr T stated that their pensions were not performing and that he wished  to combine his pension 
policies with his wifes in a Family Trust but that they wanted  advice on this subject.
The letter set out how the SIPP could pay the required 30% deposit of £88,000 on a studio flat 
and a two bedroom apartment.
The letter set out that a total mortgage of £212,000 would  be required as at 1 September 2009.
The letter explained that Mr and Mrs T wanted the balance from their pension policies to be put 
into the SIPP  to cover  the running costs.
Park Hall then sent Mr and Mrs T a SIPP Direct Offer Pack.
The pack stated that it was supplied  because Mr and Mrs T had expressed an interest in buying  
Harlequin Property. The pack warned that SIPP  arrangements were  not low cost and there would be 
fees from Park Hall and from the SIPP administrator to be paid. A fee schedule  was enclosed.
The SIPP arrangement was described as a sophisticated arrangement that would  only be 
suitable for individuals who were fully aware of the benefits and the restrictions.
Park Hall stated that:
Park Hall Financial Services are not making any recommendation as to the suitability of this 
arrangement and no advice has been or will be provided  in connection with this. Park Hall 
Ref: DRN17130523Financial Services  will not provide advice  or recommendations on the suitability of the 
property investment.
If after reading this pack you wish to proceed in using the SIPP arrangement  please 
contacts us for an application pack.
The direct  invitation pack stated that if Mr and Mrs T had any doubts  as to the suitability of the 
SIPP or its affordability they should seek expert advice. Park Hall Financial Services offered to 
provide advice to Mr and Mrs T subject to additional fees being paid.
The report set out in some  detail the risks of purchasing properties using a SIPP. The report  
recommended that Mr and Mrs T get independent legal  advice on any property transaction that they 
were about  to undertake.
The report gave general information on whether the transfer to a SIPP would be a good idea. and set 
out the advantages and disadvantages  of the proposed transaction.
Mr and Mrs T did not seek to get personalised advice from Park Hall.
Mr and Mrs T then bought one property via the SIPP. They  then arranged to buy two more 
properties using Mr Ts SIPP and Mrs Ts SIPP.  At that time Mr and Mrs T had six properties in the 
development three owned outright and three that were owned by their SIPPs.
Later on Mr T wanted to transfer the three properties that they owned outright into the SIPP 
arrangements. This did not however go ahead because of issues with the SIPP administrator.
Mr T then exchanged the properties that he had bought for cash for smaller units in the hotel that 
had been built in the hope of receiving  rental income in the future. The SIPP properties could  not be 
moved as they had not yet been built.
When the property development failed Mr and Mrs T complained that Park Hall had not 
carried out any assessment of the proposed purchase of Harlequin units. Mr and Mrs T stated 
that they had received  no proper advice from Park Hall and if they had then they would not 
have invested their SIPP  funds in Harlequin.
Park Hall rejected  the complaint on the basis that they had given Mr T and Mrs T no advice, they 
had responded to a mailshot that Park Hall had sent and had applied directly  to invest their SIPPs in 
the Harlequin  Property  development. Park Hall noted that it had offered  to provide advice to Mrs T if 
she was willing to pay for the advice. Mrs T had declined  to pay for the advice offered.
As Park Hall rejected the complaint Mrs T referred it to the Financial  Ombudsman Service where 
it was looked at by an adjudicator.
On 30 May 2017 the adjudicator issued  his view in which  he stated that the complaint should be 
upheld. The adjudicator  stated that Park Hall had sent the information to Mr and Mrs T and they 
would not have been aware of the option of investing Mrs Ts pension  provision  in Harlequin if Park 
Hall had not introduced it to her. According  to the adjudicator anything  that Mrs T received from Park 
Hall was likely to be treated  as advice  by Mrs T.
The adjudicator noted that when  Park Hall approached one of Mrs Ts existing pension  providers for 
information on the existing  provision it was acting as her adviser.  Therefore on receipt  of the letter  
from Park Hall setting out the possibility  of investing in Harlequin using a SIPP Mrs T would  have 
considered that this was advice and not a direct offer.
The adjudicator noted that Park Hall owed  a duty of care to Mrs T to ensure  that it only sent her 
direct invitations that were suitable for her.
The adjudicator did not agree that investing  her pension monies in Harlequin properties  was 
Ref: DRN17130524appropriate for Mrs T and he stated that the complaint should be upheld.
On 7 July 2017 Park Hall disagreed and argued that the adjudicators view was wrong. It argued 
that:
Mr T was absolutely determined  that he and his wife would  acquire four properties  and that 
some of these would  be acquired  through a SIPP.
Mr and Mrs T were  directors  of their own business.
They  were insistent customers who had thoroughly  researched the investment opportunity 
before they had approached Park Hall.
Mr and Mrs T were  committed to buying  two properties before they approached Park Hall.
Both Mr and Mrs T declined the option of receiving advice as they were  confident in what they 
were doing.
The pack  that Mr and Mrs T received warned  them of the risk of investing  in Harlequin.
They  had the opportunity to withdraw from the investment in September  2011 if they wanted 
to when  they would have  received  a full refund of their investment.
Mr and Mrs T did not take up that offer but appointed new advisers instead.
 Mr and Mrs T approached the investment in a business like way. They bought three 
further properties as they were confident in their own abilities when investing in property.
Park Hall noted that when it was contacted by Mr and Mrs T they wanted to look at investing in 
Harlequin using a SIPP  arrangement as they had found out about  this earlier. Park Hall states  that it 
did warn  Mr and Mrs T of the risks of investing in Harlequin.
Park Hall argues  that it provided the investment  opportunity to Mr and Mrs T in a fair and 
balanced way. In several places  it offered  to provide Mr and Mrs T with advice. This offer was 
declined. The pack sent out highlighted that Mr and Mrs T had to decide  if the opportunity was 
suitable for them.
The Direct Offer Pack did set out the risks of purchasing a property via a SIPP and 
suggested that Mr and Mrs T take legal  advice on any transaction they entered  into.
Park Hall has stated that Mr and Mrs T were absolutely determined to invest  their SIPP funds in 
Harlequin property  once they became  aware that they could and that even if Park Hall had said 
dont do it that Mr and Mrs T would have gone ahead anyway. Mr and Mrs T were very confident 
in their own ability.
As agreement  has not been reached the complaint has been referred  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is apparent that Mr and Mrs T had in the past been  successful property investors  and had owned 
a number of buy-to-let  properties.
Mr and Mrs T had visited  the island  in the Caribbean before they had decided to invest and they 
were attracted to the area. They believed  that the development  of a new airport would give a 
significant boost in the number of tourists  and that the area was likely to experience  an increase in 
property values.
I note that on 6 September 2009 Mr and Mrs T sent a letter to Park Hall. This stated that they 
were buying  property from Harlequin  Property and that they have  realised that they could buy 
properties with their pension plans if these were held in a SIPP.
Ref: DRN17130525The letter stated that Mr and Mrs T were looking at combining their pension  funds in a Family 
Trust but that they were looking  for advice  on using a Family Trust  arrangement.
Mr and Mrs T explained to Park Hall in their letter  how the two properties that they were looking at 
buying with their SIPPs  were  worth  £300,000. They required a 30% deposit but had already paid 
£2,000 in reservation fees. They were looking for £88,000. The total value  of the pension plans that 
they had were  worth  £106,500
There is no evidence  from this letter  that Mr and Mrs T were looking for advice on whether this 
was a good idea or not. They just wanted to do it.
It appears that after this letter Park Hall sent Mr and Mrs T a Client Agreement to sign which they 
did on 6 September 2009.
A direct offer pack was then sent to Mr and Mrs T.
This set out that Park Hall had not provided any advice to Mr and Mrs T on the proposed 
transaction or the suitability of the investment. Park Hall offered to provide advice and to review 
the suitability of the proposed  investments for Mr and Mrs T but this would involve  extra  costs to 
be met by Mr and Mrs T.
The option of having Park Hall review the transaction was declined by Mr and Mrs T and the 
transaction was therefore  carried out on a non-advised basis.
I have considered whether  Park Hall should  have  been  willing  to transact  the business  on a non-
advised basis.
In my opinion  Mr and Mrs T were experienced property  investors  who would  have appreciated  that 
the attractive returns on property come from the levels of gearing on each property. Provided  the 
return on the property is greater than the costs  incurred on any borrowings  the investor will benefit 
from rising property values. However, it is not guaranteed that property values will increase,  and in 
the event that they fall any gearing  will magnify the losses to an investor.
Mr and Mrs T had been  to the island  in the Caribbean where the development  was taking place and 
had decided  that it looked a good prospect. They had already purchased  for cash a number of units 
in the development. They had also been to see the development and this is where they state that 
they saw that it was possible to transfer pension  monies into a SIPP and then use these funds to 
buy further properties  on the development.
In my opinion  this was not introduced to them by Park Hall. Park Hall stated that it would arrange  
the transfers to a SIPP  to allow the property investment.  It offered to do so on an advised basis 
but this was declined by Mr and Mrs T.
In my opinion  this gives weight  to the argument that has been put forward by Park Hall
that if the adviser had stated  dont invest the SIPPs  in the Harlequin  Property funds that Mr and 
Mrs T would have gone ahead  anyway.
I note that Mr and Mrs T had already bought a number of Harlequin investments for cash and 
were therefore clearly very comfortable with the idea of investing in properties  in the Caribbean.
Mr and Mrs T demonstrated  that they were keen to invest in Harlequin.  They approached Park Hall 
to arrange the SIPP. They  did not ask for or expect advice from Park Hall. The risks of investing  in 
overseas property were  explained to them.  I am not persuaded that there were any failings  on the 
part of Park Hall. Even if there were, I think Mr and Mrs T would have invested anyway.
Ref: DRN17130526my provisional  decision
I am minded  to reject Mrs Ts complaint  against Park Hall Financial Services Limited  and to make 
no award.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1713052