K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the way Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  (APS)  dealt with his 
complaint about  a disputed transaction.
background
In January 2018, Mr A called APS to advise  that a payment  had been  made  on his account 
which he did not make  or recognise.  The money  returned to him whilst APS carried  out an 
investigation.
APS carried  out a chargeback request on the transaction  where is challenges  the 
transaction with merchants bank.  The chargeback  was defended by the merchants bank - 
providing details  which it said showed  the items  bought with the money had been delivered 
to Mr As address.
APS said that it sent this document to Mr A for his response  but as nothing was received, 
it reversed the payment  back from his account.  This was on 16th April.
Mr A contacted APS on 1st May to raise a complaint but it said that there was nothing  further for 
it to investigate and so rejected his complaint.  A final response was sent to him on 1st June.
When Mr A brought the complaint to our service,  our investigator thought that he had been 
treated unfairly  by APS. But during  this time,  APS confirmed that the debt was no longer 
being chased as the balance had been written off.  However, it said that if Mr A was asking 
for his credit  file to be updated, he would need  to pay off the same debt.
Our investigator thought that APS should  update Mr As credit file so that it showed no 
record of the debt, refund an administrative fee it had charged of £20 and pay compensation 
of £100 for the way it had handled the complaint.
APS did not agree  and asked for an ombudsmans decision  with Mr A confirming in the 
meantime that the account was no longer showing on his credit file and no defaults were 
being reported in relation to this debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
So, as APS are no longer chasing  the debt, and the credit file has been cleared, the only 
matters which it appears  to me that remains to be decided is the level of compensation 
which I deem to be fair and reasonable.
I think for the all the reasons which have already been explained by the investigator, £100  is 
a fair figure.  
I dont find APSs arguments to be very persuasive  and I think  it took an unreasonable  
stance in saying  that despite writing off the debt, the amount had to be settled before the 
credit file was updated.
So, this complaint is upheld.
Ref: DRN17214212my final decision
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  must pay Mr A £100 in compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused during the investigation of his complaint.
It must also refund the administrative fee of £20 added to Mr As account when the payment 
was reversed.
If any negative reporting of this debt remains on Mr As credit file, it should  be removed
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1721421