K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VFS) imposed unfair  
charges on the return of his leased car.
Background
Mr Hs lease was due to come to an end in early 2019. In early December 2018 VFS 
contacted Mr H about a missing payment  and during  the call Mr H asked about a formal  
extension. Details  of this were  sent to him and on 2 January.  Mr H enquired if he could buy 
the car. The agreement allowed for a short extension and it came  to an end on 11 February.
VFS says its agent tried to call Mr H to arrange collection, but was unable  to get through. 
Mr H had changed his number and VFS wasnt aware of this. Mr H then informed VFS of his 
new phone  number and the car was collected  on 23 March. In April VFS charged  Mr H for 
the following:
Excess mileage - £587.54
Extra days hire  £248.04
Refurbishment charges due to damage and missing items - £357.83
Alloy wheel key - £150.00
Bumper rear - £55.20
Spare key - £132.00
Tyre LHF  116.63
Wheel LHF  36.00
Mr H didnt agree and disputed the charges for the tyre, spare key, alloy wheel key and extra  
days hire. He said had the car been collected sooner these charges wouldnt have applied. 
VFS rejected Mr Hs complaint and he brought the matter to this service. It was considered 
by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He didnt believe that any delay had resulted in the disputed damage. He also reviewed the 
inspectors report in the light of the British  Vehicle  Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA)  
guidelines and concluded the damage  fell outside fair wear  and tear. As for the key which 
wasnt working the adjudicator didnt believe any delay was grounds  for disputing the charge.
He also said that VFS had no record of receiving the alloy wheel key despite Mr H sending it 
by recorded post.
He noted the records  showed that the agent had tried to call Mr H several times in January 
and it was only on 20 February that it was told of Mr Hs new number. It left a number of 
messages for him before a collection date was arranged.
However, he noted that Mr H had tried to contact VFS a few days  after the end of the 
agreement to chase  an update. There was no record  of VFS responding to this and so our 
adjudicator thought the business should  forgo half the extra days  hire charge.
VFS agreed,  but Mr H didnt. He said he would  send evidence that he had sent the alloy 
wheel key back, but he hasnt done  so.
Ref: DRN18218302My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is regrettable that there were delays in collecting the car, but Mr H was aware that it was 
due to go back and it was open to him to talk to VFS about the collection date. That said I 
dont believe  any of the charges, save for the extra days hire were  due to the delay.
I have looked  at the independent report and I see the tyre was damaged. The key didnt 
work and the wheel key was missing. VFS is entitled to charge Mr H for these in accordance  
with the terms and conditions of the agreement which  Mr H signed. In short,  he said I will 
hire this car and if there are items damaged beyond fair wear  and tear or missing I will pay 
for them. As such I cannot see why VFS should forgo the charges.
As for the delay I can see there was some confusion, but in essence the main problem 
seems to have been VFS not being able to get hold of Mr H. The agent  also was unable to 
make contact until Mr H updated his new phone number details. I believe the adjudicators 
suggestion is reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to forgo half the extra day hire charge. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 
28 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1821830