K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them three  payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a loan with Nationwide in November 1998. They bought a PPI policy 
at the same  time. The loan was set to run for three  years. In the event, Mr and Mrs B repaid 
the first loan in November  1999, and replaced it with a new three-year loan and a new PPI 
policy. Once again, they repaid the loan after a year, and replaced  it with a third loan and 
PPI policy  in November  2000. The final loan was due to last for five years,  but Mr and Mrs B 
repaid it early in October 2004.  Each  of the loans included an amount to pay for the PPI.
All three PPI policies  covered  Mr B. If hed made a successful claim for unemployment, the 
PPI would have  covered  Mr and Mrs Bs monthly  loan repayments for up to 12 months. And 
if hed made  a successful  claim for accident  or sickness, it would have paid Mr and Mrs Bs 
monthly loan repayments until he returned to work or the loan was paid off - whichever 
happened first.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us that they applied for the loans at a branch of Nationwide. But 
Nationwides records show that Mr and Mrs B applied for all three loans over the phone. In 
each case a credit agreement was then sent to them for signature.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ref: DRN15705672Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the forms that Nationwides representative completed during the phone  
conversations when  Mr and Mrs B took out the first two loans. They include a section 
about PPI with Yes and No options.  I cant know  what  was said to Mr and Mrs B 
during the phone calls.  But Im satisfied, on balance, that it would have been  made  clear  
to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice about  whether to take the cover. Ive also seen 
the credit agreements  Mr and Mrs B signed for each of the loans. They all refer clearly  to 
the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance   and the cost of the PPI is clearly itemised. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Nationwide made  Mr and Mrs B aware  the PPI 
was optional and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand  why they may 
no longer  remember  this, so many  years later.
Based on what we know about  the way Nationwide sold PPI with unsecured personal 
loans at the time, I think its unlikely that it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for them. It was for Mr and Mrs B to decide whether  
they wished  to take the cover, knowing what other  means  theyd have had of making 
their monthly loan repayments  if Mr B was unable to work. But Nationwide  did have a 
responsibility to give Mr and Mrs B clear enough  information about the PPI to enable 
them to decide  if the cover  was right for them.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But based 
on what theyve told us about their circumstances when they took out the policies, its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have been  affected  by any of these.
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs B have told us that Mr B was self-employed,  and 
wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay. Theyve  told us they 
could have relied on family and friends to help if need be. But circumstances  can 
change, and I cant be sure that Mr and Mrs Bs family and friends would have  been  in a 
position to help if the need had arisen. So if Mr B had been  sick, injured  or out of work, 
I think the policy could  have  been useful  to Mr and Mrs B at what  would have been a 
difficult time. And theyd  have been  able to use their savings  to meet  other day-to-day 
expenses.
The cost of the policy was shown on all three credit  agreements   including,  in each 
case, the amount of the premium,  the interest  payable on the premium and the total cost. 
So I think Mr and Mrs B would  have  understood how much the PPI would cost if they 
kept the policies for their full term. And Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that they couldnt 
afford the policies.
Taking everything into account,  Im not convinced  that better information about  the PPI 
would have made Mr and Mrs B change  their mind about taking the policies. So I dont 
think theyve lost out as a result of anything that Nationwide may have done wrong.
Ive noted  that Mr and Mrs B finished repaying each of the loans before the end of the full 
term. But in each  case, they received a proportionate refund of the PPI premium.  So Im 
satisfied that they didnt lose out as a result of early repayment.
Ref: DRN15705673my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1570567