K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that he received poor service from British Gas Insurance  Limited 
(BG) under his HomeCare  insurance  policy after he reported a leak that was 
causing damage to his home. He also complains  about the poor complaint 
handling he experienced. 
BG includes its agents and contractors.
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  in respect of this complaint. 
background
Towards the end of October 2018,  Mr D noticed  a water mark in the corner  of his 
dining area ceiling.  He suspected a water leak and contacted  BG.
On 29th October one of BGs engineers visited. He diagnosed a leak from mastic 
around the bath in the family bathroom.  Mr D says he accepted that there were 
some signs  of very minor  water egress  from an overhead shower  but didnt 
believe that this was responsible for the damage.  He says he referred  the 
engineer to a toilet in an adjacent en suite bathroom  but the engineer said that he 
had checked this and all was in order. Mr D says he was advised to remastic  the 
bath which  he did the same day. The ceiling  would then need  some time to dry 
out. 
 
Mr D says that by 11th January 2019  the ceiling hadnt dried out and was still 
wet, as now were the walls. He believed that BGs engineer had wrongly  
diagnosed the source  of the leak and that it was continuing. He contacted BG, 
and the original engineer came back. He made  a further check and this time 
diagnosed the leak as coming from an insecure flush pipe from the toilet  cistern 
to the bowl which he said hed then fixed.  He suggested that this may be a 
second leak. Mr D suspected that this was in fact the same leak that the engineer 
hadnt detected at his previous visit on 29 October. 
Mr D says that one week  later,  on 18th January, there were still drips  of water 
coming through his dining area ceiling  and extensive  black  mould down  the walls 
and into the floor boards.  Disillusioned with BGs  ability to deal with the matter,  
Mr D contacted his home insurers and made  a claim under his home insurance 
policy.
Mr Ds home  insurers appointed engineers to investigate. They  visited  on 22nd 
January and their opinion  was that the water damage was being  caused by an 
escape of water from a leak in the en suite toilets flush pipe and that this had 
been leaking  for some time. In their view the leak from the flush pipe was there  to 
be discovered on 29th October and that BGs engineer hadnt investigated 
thoroughly and had failed  to identify it.
Mr D complained to BG on 22 January. Following  its receipt  of Mr Ds complaint,  
another BG engineer attended. He found a leak behind the en suite toilet cistern. 
He replaced the flush cone  and tightened  the bath taps as well as loose joints 
under the bath. He reported  that there  was a slight leak on the bath joint,  but 
Ref: DRN13391692most of the water leak that was causing  the damage  was coming from the en 
suite toilet.  
BG conducted an investigation. It agreed  with some  of the concerns that Mr D 
had raised. It says that at his first visit on 29 October 2018, its engineer found a 
leak coming from the under shower area and fixed this. It then says that on 11 
January Mr D called  to report a further  leak, indicated  as being a leak from the 
toilet. BG says its records show  that the engineer tightened, checked and tested 
the bath waste  connections but didnt carry out any work on the toilet. So its view 
was that the leak Mr D reported  on 11 January 2019  was a separate  leak to the 
one hed reported on 28 October.
BG denies liability for the majority of the damage  to Mr Ds home. It accepts that 
there was a delay  of 11 days  between Mr D initially reporting the leak on 11 
January 2019  and the repair being completed on 22 January 2019. It says that if 
it had been told that the leak was continuing as soon as Mr D had noticed it after 
11 January 2019,  it may have been able to attend  earlier. It might  have  been  able 
to fix it  at some point between 11 January and 22 January  2019.  It doesnt agree 
that the leak was misdiagnosed  on 29 October 2018  as the time elapsed 
between October 2018 and January  2019  indicated to it that if that leak had been 
continuing, it shouldve  been called back to deal with it much earlier  than 11 
January 2019.
 BG has offered Mr D £100 compensation for his inconvenience. 
Mr D doesnt accept  BGs response. He doesnt believe that its been honest, nor 
its investigation thorough. He says BG is trying  to argue that two leaks  were 
reported  one in October  2018 and one in January 2019 - and that theres  no 
causal connection  between them. He says that when he called  BG in January, it 
wasnt in relation to a new leak,  but to the original one that was continuing 
because it hadnt  been properly diagnosed and fixed in October. He says that 
had BGs  engineer shown the requisite reasonable care and skill he wouldve 
correctly identified the source of the leak on 29th October and that his failure to 
do had caused  foreseeable  consequential loss to his property. 
Mr D made  a claim on his home  insurance  policy. The work to repair the damage  
to his house has cost around £5,000, and he had to pay the £350 policy  excess. 
He also says hes lost a number of days work to be at home  to facilitate all the 
necessary repairs. He also says that he lost the amenity of his dining area,  
particularly over the Christmas period when he wouldve used it for entertaining, 
and of his en suite toilet.
As he was dissatisfied  with BGs  response to his complaint, Mr D brought  it to 
this service. Our investigator thought that BGs delay  in identifying what  was 
causing the damage was more than just the period between 11 and 22 January 
2019, and that it was fair that Mr D be compensated for the trouble and upset 
hed experienced. She thought that BG should  pay a further £150 in 
compensation. 
Neither Mr D nor BG agree with our investigators view. Mr D says that in 
October 2018, when  he first reported  the problem to BG, the visible damage to 
his ceiling was very small, and a repair wouldve involved minimal cost, and 
Ref: DRN13391693wouldnt have involved his home insurers. Hed already bought some sealant to 
apply himself when  the small damp patch had dried out, but it never did. It only 
proceeded to get worse. He argues that if BGs  engineer  had diagnosed the 
cause of the dampness correctly at that point, he wouldnt have had to make  a 
claim on his home insurance policy, with consequent liability  for the £350  excess 
and potential higher future  premiums, not to mention the disruption.  
BG argues that it cant be held responsible for a loss it never knew about. Mr D 
hadnt contacted it between 29 October  and 11 January. Had he done so, an 
earlier repair  couldve been  made and less damage  done.
As neither Mr D not BG agreed with our investigators view, the matter was 
passed to me to decide on the fair and reasonable response to Mr Ds complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision. Neither  BG not Mr D has provided any further 
information in response to that decision that might cause me to change  my view 
so this is my final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im upholding Mr Ds 
complaint in part but for different reasons to those of our investigator.
I need firstly  to form a view on what caused the damage to Mr Ds ceiling. In 
doing so, I accept what Mr D says about  there being just one leak, and not two. I 
think its inherently unlikely that the damage  to Mr Ds dining area ceiling 
wouldve been caused by two separate leaks from two different locations. I think 
on the balance  of probabilities the damage  was caused by one leak that wasnt  
identified until 22 January despite a BG engineer having investigated on 29 
October 2018 and 11 January 2019.
In support of that, and having  seen photographs of the damage to the floor area 
around the toilet where the leak is said to have  occurred, I think even  to the 
untrained eye it seems likely that water  had been leaking in that area for 
considerably longer  than the period between 11 and 22 January. So Im satisfied 
that the leak from the toilet was present when BGs  engineer visited  on 29 
October 2018. This view is further supported by the report provided by the 
engineers appointed by Mr Ds home insurers, which stated  that the damage they 
saw on 22 January was from a long standing escape of water and that the leak 
couldve been identified  earlier and so wouldnt have caused  the extent of the 
damage that they saw on their visit.
Had the leak been diagnosed and fixed on 29 October,  the damage  to Mr Ds 
home wouldve been minimal. He wouldnt have experienced  the loss of amenity 
of his toilet, or of his dining area, particularly over the Christmas period, and he 
wouldnt have had to be present on so many further  occasions to accommodate 
engineers and others. He wouldnt have had to involve  his home insurers. 
Having come to a view as to the cause of the damage to Mr Ds home,  I need  
then to consider  whether BG is responsible for this and if so, to what extent.
Ref: DRN13391694Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ds policy. There  are a number of exclusions which  
seem to me to be relevant. These are:
Any damage thats covered by other kinds of insurance
Your product doesnt include repairing or replacing  any damage 
caused by extreme  weather,  flooding, structural issues,  fire or 
explosions  or any other kind of damage  thats normally covered 
by household insurance  unless your product specifically 
includes it. If your product specifically includes anything thats 
also covered by your household insurance,  were only 
responsible for our fair share.
Any other  loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage  to, or cleaning of 
property, furniture or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance 
or system  breaking or failing unless we caused it. For example 
damage caused by water  leaks.  (my emphasis added).
Mr Ds policy  with BG only covers repairs, not making good. The cost of making 
good is therefore something that should be covered by his home insurance 
policy, and it has been. But Mr Ds point  is that he wouldnt  have  had to make a 
claim on his home insurance if the leak had been identified  on 29 October. And it 
was only because BGs engineer failed to correctly  identify  it that the damage 
became so extensive that a claim was necessary.
I have to consider  whether its reasonable for BG to be held responsible for the 
extent of the damage that was caused.  Its engineer visited twice and on both 
occasions thought that the leak was from some other source and that hed taken 
remedial action. I cant say how obvious  it shouldve been to a competent 
engineer that the leak was actually from some  other  source when  he had in fact 
identified some potential  causes and fixed them, such as the small leaks he 
found in the family bathroom. 
The only way to identify  if BGs engineer had correctly identified all sources of 
leakage and fixed them  would  be if the visible damage to Mr Ds ceiling reduced. 
And it didnt.  It only got bigger. 
I think its reasonable to say that the point at which it shouldve  been obvious that 
the dampness on the ceiling wasnt drying  out as it shouldve done, but was 
instead expanding, wouldve been much earlier than 11 January, some 11 weeks  
later. During that period the damage increased  from what Mr D describes  as a 
mildly damp patch about 4 in diameter,  which Mr D was intending  to deal with 
himself with some damp sealant, to damage  that had spread to walls and floor,   
costing some £5,000  to repair,  and involving his home insurers.
I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr D to have contacted  BG much earlier 
to get it back to identify  why the first repair hadnt  stopped the dampness,  and 
before it started  to affect the walls and then the floor and for mould  to develop.
I accept that a second visit by BG on 11 January also failed to identify the source 
of the leak, which was only identified 11 days later, but I think  that between 29 
October and 11 January  the greater part of the damage would already have 
Ref: DRN13391695occurred. I dont think so much damage wouldve  occurred had Mr D not waited 
for some 11 weeks before contacting BG again.
I accept that Mr D has suffered considerable trouble and upset because of two 
incorrect diagnoses of the source of the leak. But I think  that this wouldve been 
mitigated if hed contacted BG again sooner, rather than waiting 11 weeks  to do 
so. 
I think it likely that the continuance  of the leak wouldve been obvious within a 
relatively short time after 29 October, and once  identified,  couldve been fixed  
and any damage  repaired  in good  time for Christmas.  However, I think that 
compensation of £250 would be more appropriate given that there was another 
misdiagnosis on 11 January and then a further delay between  11 and 24 January  
before the leak was diagnosed and finally fixed.
Im also of the view that BGs reasons for rejecting  Mr Ds claim havent  been 
entirely accurate  in that theyve misrepresented certain aspects of the claim and 
what Mr D has said in correspondence. I feel he has reason to be dissatisfied  
with the way his claim has been  handled.  I think that compensation of £100 
would be appropriate  here.
So my decision is that BG should  pay Mr D £350 compensation, less any sum 
already paid to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Ds claim and I require  British  
Gas Insurance  Limited to pay him £350 plus interest, less any sum already paid 
to him.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the balance  of the compensation within  
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays  
later than this it must also pay interest  on that balance from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1339169