K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about what National Savings and Investments (NS&I) did when it 
received their application to transfer  their money  from an income bond into a guaranteed 
investment bond.
Theyre unhappy with the interest rate provided to them along with the customer service they 
received. 
background
In March last year Mr and Mrs W completed  an application form to transfer their money from 
an income bond to a guaranteed investment bond for three years at an interest rate of 
2.15%. 
Their paper application form shows  this was completed on 4 March. And, I assume,  they 
posted it to NS&I that same day.
Mr W said after submitting his application  he noticed  the rate had dropped  to 1.90%  so he 
contacted NS&I to ask about this. Mr W was incorrectly told that as long as the paperwork 
pre-dated 6 March  (the date the interest rate reduced) then hed receive  the higher rate of 
2.15%. But Mr W shouldve  actually  been  told that if the application was received after the 
interest rate dropped,  the lower rate would be the one hed get.
As the application  was received on 13 March, Mr and Mrs W got the lower interest rate of 
1.90%. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy about this. They said they shouldve  been given the higher rate 
of 2.15%,  particularly as thats what they believed theyd receive when they completed  their 
application on 4 March. They were also unhappy theyd been given incorrect  advice when 
they called  to check what rate theyd receive.
NS&I acknowledged  Mr and Mrs W had been  given inaccurate information during the phone 
call. But they explained as the paperwork was received after the interest rate changed  it was 
the lower rate that would apply to Mr and Mrs Ws bond. 
It offered  to pay them £25 in recognition  of the inconvenience that had been  caused and this 
was later increased to £50. NS&I also said Mr and Mrs W could withdraw their investment 
without penalty  and gave them until 20 April to do so. 
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy. They felt they should  either be given the higher interest 
rate or £750 to reflect  the interest that theyd missed out on.
Our adjudicator assessed Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and concluded that the £50 offer of 
compensation was fair. 
He looked at the key features of the account  which said the interest rate will be applied when 
the application is received. As the application  was received on 13 March, he thought  theyd 
applied the correct interest rate to Mr and Mrs Ws bond. 
Ref: DRN19599042Whilst our adjudicator acknowledged  the information  given in the call wasnt correct he also 
explained that had NS&I  given the right information on the call of 7 March,  it was too late at 
that stage to qualify  for the interest  rate of 2.15% as the rate had already changed. For this 
reason he said he couldnt conclude the information  provided in the call led Mr and Mrs W to 
lose out.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with our adjudicator so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the adjudicator  Ive looked at the key features document  applicable to Mr and Mrs Ws 
guaranteed investment bond.  This explains that each  bond will belong to an issue and any 
issue can be withdrawn without notice.  Also that the date of purchase will be the date the 
application is received by NS&I and this is when the interest will start to be earnt. 
With this in mind NS&I have provided  evidence to show that the application was received  on 
13 March. So I dont  think its unreasonable they applied the interest rate applicable at that 
date - even  though this was lower than what Mr and Mrs W were  expecting when they 
completed their application  on 4 March.
NS&I have admitted  that the information provided  in the telephone  call on 7 March was 
incorrect. I can appreciate this call wouldve allayed Mr and Mrs Ws concerns that they 
might get a lower interest rate and they later found out this was not the case. But the interest 
rate had already changed by the time Mr W called NS&I and theyd already completed and 
posted their application. So even if Mr W had been provided with the correct information, this 
wouldnt have made a difference as the new, lower rate was already in place. In effect, by 
the time Mr W called  theyd already missed out on the opportunity to get a new bond with a 
2.15% interest  rate.
Had NS&I given Mr and Mrs W the correct  information during the phone call theres a 
possibility theyd have  chosen not to take out the bond with NS&I. But they found out soon  
after the bond was opened  that they hadnt  got the rate they were  hoping for. And, perhaps 
more importantly, NS&I  gave them the opportunity to withdraw  their money without  incurring 
the normal penalty that applies  to early withdrawals. NS&I says they havent  done so and 
this might be because although  theyve got a lower  rate than they expected it might still be 
higher than other providers are offering.
NS&I have awarded £50 in recognition  of the confusion and/or distress Mr and Mrs W may 
have suffered having found out theyd been  given the wrong information. That seems fair to 
me. And, given the overall circumstances, I dont think NS&I  need to honour  the higher  
interest rate or pay any further compensation to Mr and Mrs W. 
Ref: DRN19599043my final decision
Im satisfied that £50 is a fair amount given the overall circumstances of this particular case. 
National Savings  and Investments should  pay the amount of £50 to Mr and Mrs W, if they 
havent already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1959904