K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about the prices at which Swissquote Ltd executed  his contract for 
differences (CFD) trades.
background 
Mr K had a CFD account  with Swissquote. He had two short  positions on the 
Euro/Hungarian Forint (EURHUF) currency pair. So hed profit if the value of the Euro  fell, 
and lose if it went up.
On the morning of 23 July 2018,  the EURHUF  moved up and Mr Ks account fell into margin  
deficit. This meant he no longer  had enough  money deposited to support his positions, and 
Swissquote closed  them.  
Some of Mr Ks trades were  closed at a price  of just over 333, and he complained - saying 
the market price of EURHUF at the time was in fact around 326.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought it should be upheld. She 
thought the prices Swissquote had used  to execute  Mr Ks trades were unfair, as they were 
higher than any other prices quoted elsewhere  at that time.  She thought Swissquote should 
re-price Mr Ks trades  using  a lower rate, and pay him £100 for the inconvenience hed been 
caused.
Mr K said the EURHUF rate was even lower  today, and if hed not had his trades closed  out 
hed have been able to profit further.  
Swissquote didnt  agree  with the investigator  that its prices were unfair, and asked  for an 
ombudsman to decide the matter.  It said:
The prices the investigator had compared Swissquotes to werent  real, tradeable  
prices and so shouldnt be used as evidence.  Swissquotes prices  represented over-
the-counter (OTC) trades  and its misleading to compare the two.
Best execution requires Swissquote to take all reasonable steps to give Mr K the best 
result for his trades,  but it doesnt  require it to guarantee it can match or beat other 
providers prices.  Such a requirement  would be impossible and unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K was trading CFDs based  on the EURHUF currency pair. This allowed Mr K to 
speculate on movements  in EURHUF, but the CFDs themselves  were provided by (and the 
prices of them set by) Swissquote.
Swissquote says it gets its prices  from one liquidity provider, its parent company which Ill 
call S. In its terms  of business  it says of the way it prices CFDs:
The prices that we quote are determined by us and usually represent  a mark-up or mark-
down on inter-bank  dealing or market  rates (consequently our prices may not be the best 
available at the time you place an order with us).
Ref: DRN17395512Ive thought very carefully about the price  Swissquote provided  to Mr K, and at which it 
executed his trades. I think this case is finely balanced.
Im satisfied Swissquote (or S) would be setting  the price on which  Mr K would be trading, 
and that its price might be different to prices available elsewhere. Swissquote does indicate  
this price would  generally reflect the market rate, allowing for a mark-up. The size of that 
mark-up may vary for a number of reasons. 
But theres a potential for a conflict of interest inherent in an arrangement where Swissquote 
and its parent company set the prices at which it will trade with Mr K, and take the other side 
of those trades. So I think its particularly important for Swissquote to be able to demonstrate 
it has managed that conflict  by offering  prices  that fairly reflect those  in the underlying  
market.
Establishing the market  rate for a currency pair isnt quite as straightforward as it is for 
some other financial instruments. The currency markets arent centralised and theres no 
accepted single trading venue where  transactions take place. But I dont think that means 
any price Swissquote offered would be fair. As Ive mentioned, given the nature  of the 
relationship between Swissquote  and Mr K, Swissquote was in a position  to both set the 
prices to be traded at and also to potentially profit from its dealings  with Mr K. So I think  it 
needs to be able to demonstrate it has offered Mr K a fair price and has paid due regard to 
his interests and treated him fairly.
At its broadest,  the underlying market could  be said to be made up of all other market 
participants trading  a particular security. And Ive not seen anything to suggest anyone  be 
they a CFD provider, inter-bank dealer or other financial institution  was trading EURHUF at 
prices above about 326.5 when Swissquote executed Mr Ks trades.
As Ive said,  establishing the true market price  for a currency  pair isnt an exact science. But 
in considering what the market rate for EURHUF was that day Ive given particular weight to 
the prices traded in the inter-bank market  where a significant proportion of spot foreign 
exchange trading  is carried  out.
The highest  price recorded for EURHUF that day in the inter-bank market  was 326.345. 
Allowing for a modest  mark-up and Swissquotes  latitude to set its own prices for its CFDs,  
Im not persuaded a price  of 333, above  the highest  rate traded in the inter-bank  market, was 
fair.
I acknowledge that the difference here is a matter of a few percentage points. But at the time 
it executed Mr Ks trades the spread between Swissquotes EURHUF bid and offer prices 
was particularly wide. And the eventual execution prices were  higher  albeit not by much   
than any other quotes Ive seen for this currency pair at that time.
Id like to emphasise that Im not suggesting Swissquote needed to match  or beat prices 
offered elsewhere.  But for the reasons Ive explained above, I think it is important it can 
demonstrate why its prices are different (and,  for Mr K, worse)  than those in the underlying 
market. But it hasnt  been able to describe how much of the spread was made up of its own 
mark-up, what  sources it or S use to arrive at the prices it quoted, or provided any other third 
party evidence to explain  why the prices it was quoting  were fair.
Ref: DRN17395513While I accept that S (the source of Swissquotes price feed) is a separate  entity,  
Swissquotes obligation is to Mr K and I think it ought to be able to demonstrate that it has 
treated him fairly and ensured it hasnt put its or Ss interests ahead  of Mr Ks. At the 
moment Im not satisfied its done so. Specifically, Im not persuaded quoting  prices higher 
than 326.345  (the highest quote  in the inter-bank market) was fair or paid sufficient regard 
for Mr Ks interests.
So I think Swissquote should credit Mr Ks account as if all those trades it closed at prices  
higher than 326.345 had closed at that price. Mr K has said that hes also suffered 
consequential losses because he wasnt able to open new trades or profit further  on his 
existing positions  due to the size of his losses he suffered.  I dont, however, think  
Swissquote needs to compensate him any further for these potential losses.  The currency 
markets are volatile. And I cant say for sure how much, if anything,  Mr K might have made 
on any subsequent  trades. Its quite  possible  he would in fact have suffered further losses 
had his bets on the market direction proved  incorrect.
Having said that, Im satisfied that suffering larger losses than he ought to have done, and 
the impact that had on his account, will have been troubling and upsetting for Mr K. So, like 
our investigator, I think Swissquote should pay him a further £100 in light of that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Swissquote Ltd must:
Credit Mr Ks account to put it in the position it would have been in had any EURHUF 
trades which closed  on 23 July 2018 above 326.345 instead been closed at exactly 
326.345.
Pay him £100 for the trouble its caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
 
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1739551