K820x#14complaint
Mr G, on behalf of Mr W, is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) repossessed his car and terminated his hire agreement.  Hes also unhappy VWFS 
are holding him liable  for various outstanding  payments due under the contract. 
background
Mr W entered into a hire agreement with VWFS around May 2015. Around October 2017 Mr 
W spoke with VWFS regarding an account arrears  letter which  hed received. Mr W said this 
was the first hed been notified  of this. 
VWFS say they advised Mr W that his direct debit  for the hire agreement was being paid by 
a limited company,  which wasnt the name  on the hire agreement.  They explained that it 
wasnt acceptable for the direct debit to come  from an account with a different name  to the 
agreement holder. VWFS say they explained he could  either  set up a standing order  or 
change the name on the agreement to that of the limited company. 
As I understand Mr W never set up a standing  order. And he didnt want to change  the name 
on the agreement  either.  VWFS ended up sending several reminders and notices of default 
before eventually terminating the agreement around September 2018. VWFS has explained 
that, as the arrears hadnt been  paid in full, they took the necessary steps  to regain 
possession of the vehicle. They say Mr W is still liable for a number of payments under the 
terms of the hire agreement. 
An adjudicator has already looked at this case.  Overall she felt the actions of VWFS  had 
been fair and reasonable. So she didnt uphold  Mr Ws complaint. As Mr W remains 
unhappy, this matter has now been passed to me to look at. I note Mr W remains concerned 
as to why the situation with the direct debit was able to happen in the first place. And that he 
thinks some apportionment of blame must  surely  be attributed to VWFS. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive considered all the evidence, 
this decision will focus on what I think are the key issues  in dispute. 
The direct debit mandate was in the name  of a limited company  and it didnt match the name  
on the hire agreement. I think  VWFS shouldve notified Mr W sooner  that this was a problem. 
However I can see that once they did, Mr W didnt  set up a standing order.  Nor did he agree 
to amend the name on the hire agreement. 
I can see payments were missed and the account  fell into arrears. VWFS sent several 
reminders and notices of default, before the agreement was eventually defaulted. Whilst I 
note Mr W says he didnt receive  certain  correspondence from VWFS, on balance  I think this 
correspondence was most likely sent. And I can see VWFS had the correct address on file 
for Mr W. 
As the account  wasnt brought up to date, I think VWFS was entitled to take the action they 
did. The hire agreement  was terminated  early for failure to make the repayments. I dont 
think VWFS need to waive any payments due under the hire agreement. Upon considering  
Ref: DRN16994112all the evidence I think the actions of VWFS  have been fair and reasonable and in line with 
their hire agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
Mr W, to accept or reject my decision before 22 August  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1699411