K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by the personal representatives of the late Miss As estate, who 
are also Miss As parents. Solicitors are acting  on behalf of Miss As parents in their capacity  
as personal representatives. For simplicity, Ive only referred to Miss As parents below. But 
my references to Miss As parents should be understood  to include their solicitors also. 
The late Miss As parents  complain about  Standard Life Assurance  Limited  (Standard  Life).  
They have concerns about how Standard Life exercised its discretion regarding the 
distribution of death benefits under Miss As Corporate Stakeholder Pension Plan and 
Flexible Retirement Plan.
background
Miss A had a Corporate Stakeholder  Pension  Plan and Flexible Retirement Plan with 
Standard Life.
On 16 February 2018 Miss A sadly passed  away. Standard Life was subsequently made 
aware of this and wrote  to Miss As parents on 30 March 2018.  In summary it said:
the total death benefit payable under Miss As plans was £40,719.06  
if no trust had been set up by Miss A, as Scheme Administrators, it would use its 
discretion to decide who to pay the death benefit  to
Scheme Rules allowed it to decide to pay one or a number of people from a range  of 
beneficiaries (details of which  were enclosed) 
it would  consider all of Miss As circumstances before  deciding  who to pay death  
benefits to
its records indicated that for one of her plans, Miss A had written  to Standard Life in 
April 2008 to say that if she died before retirement, shed like the death benefit to be 
paid to her parents  and sister 
although it would take into account Miss As wishes, they werent legally binding
it needed Miss As parents to provide  information  it required and send it copy  of Miss 
As death certificate 
Miss As parents provided a copy of Miss As Death Certificate and confirmed Miss A had no 
spouse or partner  at the time she died and no Will. They said Miss A had one child from a 
former relationship and the only other people they thought  might  be potential  death benefit 
beneficiaries were themselves and Miss As sister. 
Standard Life replied on 14 April 2018  and explained the following:
it noted Miss As expression of wish (EoW) from April 2008 but its discretion wasnt 
determined by this. It explained that if it were compelled to follow  an instruction or 
EoW, or if it failed  to consider other  potential beneficiaries, Her Majestys Revenue 
and Customs (HMRC) may take the view that death benefits form part of Miss As 
estate for inheritance  tax purposes
Miss A made her EoW before  her son was born and it needed to consider him as a 
potential beneficiary  as Miss As dependant
Standard Life asked Miss As parents for Miss As sons fathers contact details. And said 
that Miss As sons father was considered Miss As sons parental/legal  guardian.
Ref: DRN11587732Miss As parents provided Standard Life with the contact details for Miss As sons father and 
also made it aware of the following:
although Miss As sons  father had parental responsibility for Miss As son, he was in 
the process of renouncing his entitlement to act as an administrator to Miss As 
estate. Miss As parents intended  to apply to be appointed as the administrators of 
Miss As estate
if Standard  Life decided Miss As son should  be considered  the beneficiary of the 
death benefit theyd like to know how much would be paid to him to check  if the 
money could be paid to Miss As estate  without affecting its inheritance tax position.  
They said their intention was for Miss As sons money to be held in trust by them 
instead of his father. And asked if the death  benefit could  be paid to them 
Standard Life responded to Miss As parents and advised it was getting in touch with Miss 
As sons father.  It said that in the event it found in favour of Miss As son it wouldnt be able 
to disclose the amount being  paid due to the data protection  act and would need Miss As 
sons fathers permission  to disclose this. Standard Life confirmed it couldnt pay Miss As 
death benefit to her estate as it fell outside the estate. However  it could pay money to a 
trustee account that could be set up in Miss As sons name. Although  it would need Miss As 
sons fathers consent to pay the benefit  to this account if it was set up
Miss As parents emailed Standard Life said they wished to be considered beneficiaries  
under Miss As plans so they could hold funds in trust for Miss As son, their grandson.  They 
asked Standard life not to pay any money  to Miss As sons  father. Miss As parents 
explained Miss A had separated from her sons father in September 2017 and that they 
werent living together at the time of Miss As death.
Miss As parents said they believed Miss As ex-partner would spend any money  he received 
on himself, leaving Miss As son with no inheritance. They  said they understood Standard  
Life couldnt pay the death  benefit  money  to Miss As estate  but assured Standard Life that 
any money paid to them would be placed  in trust for Miss As son with Miss As sons  father 
and Miss As father  acting as trustees  and joint signees for all transactions.  However Miss 
As parents said they didnt think Miss As sons father would necessarily agree to this, so 
they hoped  the outcome of the matter would be in favour of Miss As wishes so that her 
sons future could be secured.
Miss As sister later contacted Standard  Life and like her parents said she didnt want  any 
funds paid to Miss As sons  father  as she believed hed spend the money  on himself.
Standard Life emailed Miss As parents and confirmed that while  it had noted everything 
theyd said, Miss As ex-partner was Miss As sons parent/legal  guardian and therefore it 
was duty bound to take instruction from him as to where the money should be paid if the 
death benefit was in favour of Miss As son. Standard Life said if a trust account  was set up it 
would suggest  that Miss As sons father could consider putting any share for Miss As son 
into that account.
Miss As parents replied to Standard Life and asked  if a final decision had yet been  made.  
They said more could  be said about  Miss As sons father if necessary to ensure that Miss 
As son received  what he was entitled  to. 
Standard Life confirmed a recommendation had been put forward by it that morning which  
would be discussed  with the other scheme administrators before a decision was finalised. 
Ref: DRN11587733Standard Life later confirmed it had exercised  its discretion  in favour  of Miss As son. 
Following this Miss As parents wrote  to Standard Life. In summary they said:
their understanding  was that no death  benefit payment under Miss As policies had 
yet been made and that any payment would be frozen until Standard Life responded 
to their complaint
they were concerned  Standard Lifes decision had been hasty and that their 
representations had been ignored
Standard Life had incorrectly said the payment couldnt be made  to the legal 
representatives of Miss As estate. And said this was within its discretion
Standard Life would  not be be properly  exercising  its discretion if it made  the death 
benefit payment  to Miss As sons father
Miss As sons father was not a dependant on Miss A at the time of her death
the only person  entitled to receive  any of Miss As estate  was her son
although Miss As sons  father had parental responsibility for Miss As son, hed 
agreed that it wasnt appropriate  for him to administer Miss As estate and had 
therefore renounced his entitlement to act as an administrator
Miss As sons father was supporting their application to be appointed Administrators
Miss As sons father didnt fall within the description of potential  beneficiaries  
Standard Life should review its decision and make the death benefit payment to Miss 
As parents  as the legal representatives of Miss As estate
  
Following an application to the Court  and Miss As ex-partners renunciation of any claim as 
an Administrator, Miss As parents were appointed administrators of Miss As estate. 
Standard Life responded to Miss As parents complaint and in summary said:
where it said it had discretion to pay death  benefits to a persons legal personal  
representative, this was where its discretion  wasnt exercised elsewhere
it had reviewed its decision in light of the representations made but considered the 
discretion it had applied was fair and reasonable based on the evidence  available to 
it, so it wouldnt be changing  its decision
it had taken appropriate steps  to identify potential beneficiaries and obtained 
sufficient information from each of them to give due consideration to payment of the 
death benefit
the payment  of death benefits  to minors was achieved by entrusting the funds  to the 
parent(s) of the minor for the childs benefit.  So its proposal to make the death benefit 
payment to Miss As sons father was acceptable
it didnt wish to bypass Miss As sons fathers  right to have a say in the use of funds 
from his sons late mothers plans based solely on the representations of Miss As 
sister and Miss As sons grandparents
it understood from Miss As parents a trust was being set up for Miss As son and that 
his father  would be a trustee and again  said it could arrange to settle  death  benefits 
to this trust if Miss As sons father requested that it do so
it appreciated Miss As parents concerns that funds allocated to Miss As son may 
not ultimately benefit him if paid to his father, however its understanding was that 
Miss As son was in the care of his father  and would  be involved in managing his 
money in the future  
Ref: DRN11587734it encouraged Miss As parents to engage  with Miss As sons  father to agree the best 
application of the death benefit.  However it explained that if this wasnt  possible it 
would proceed  to make payment to Miss As sons father    
Miss As parents replied saying they were unhappy  with Standard Lifes response and 
advised theyd  refer their complaint to our service. They asked  Standard Life to confirm that 
in the meantime no payment would be made to Miss As son until an outcome on their 
complaint had been reached.
Standard Life responded and said that while it had taken  into account, in the absence  of 
further information from Miss As parents on their engagement with Miss As sons father to 
resolve the matter  themselves, it didnt feel it was reasonable  to delay payment of the death 
benefit any further. Standard Life confirmed it arrange the settlement of the claim in favour of 
Miss As son, as her dependent shortly.
The death  benefit was later paid to Miss As son via his father.
Unhappy with Standard Lifes response to their complaint, Miss As parents referred their 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
it was appropriate  for Standard Life to consider Miss As son a beneficiary of the 
death benefit since he was her dependant
death benefits could only be paid to Miss As son via the person with parental 
responsibility for him which was his father. She didnt think this was incorrect  given 
Miss As son lived with his father and his father  would need  to support him financially
Standard Life has exercised its discretion  reasonably  
Miss As parents disagreed and said our investigator  hadnt taken into account  or addressed  
the full extent of the failings of Standard  Life. They said Miss A wouldve wanted  her son to 
benefit from her policies but it was also clear that any sums would need to be safeguarded. 
And theyd  made Standard Life aware of their concerns about Miss As sons father. Miss As 
parents said Standard Life had failed Miss As son.
As our investigators view on the matter remained the same  and no agreement could be 
reached the matter  was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken serious note of the correspondence, arguments and comments  made  by the involved 
parties, Ive limited my response to what I consider to be the issues central  to this complaint. 
That is to say whether  Standard Life was able to use its discretion distributing Miss As death 
benefit, and if it was, did it exercise  this discretion in a fair and reasonable way.
Id point out that where discretion is given to a decision maker   here Standard  Life  it can 
be difficult to challenge how that discretion has been  exercised. A discretionary decision 
maker needs to understand the legal position, take into account all relevant and no irrelevant 
factors and reach  a decision which isnt perverse. In looking at Standard Lifes decision it 
Ref: DRN11587735isnt for me to say if its the same decision Id have made  what I need  to think about is if the 
decision is one which a reasonable decision maker,  acting reasonably, could have reached.
I have considerable  sympathy for Miss As parents.  Its clear to me this will have been a very 
difficult time for them.  Not only as a result of their daughter very sadly  passing  away. But 
also from the time and energy theyve put into trying to ensure Miss As death  benefit is paid 
out in a way they consider  appropriate.  From their submissions, its seems Miss As parents 
prevailing concern  is ensuring Miss As son, their grandson, is sufficiently provided for and 
that he receives what it seems they agree hes entitled to under his late mothers policies.
The Scheme Rules applicable here say:
If you die before  your 75th birthday and before you have taken the proceeds of all your policies, the remaining policy proceeds 
will normally be used to provide a lump sum death  benefit.
Who decides who receives  proceeds paid as a lump  sum death benefit?
You may place your policies in trust. If you do so, we will pay any lump sum death  benefit to your trustees as long as the trust is 
valid at the time of your death.  If you do not place your policies  in trust, Standard Life as Scheme Administrators of the Scheme  
may pay any lump sum death  benefit to one or more of the following-
 any persons (including trustees)  whose names you have  given us in writing before your death  ()
 your dependants
 any individuals entitled under your will to any interest  in your estate ()
 your legal personal representatives
It is up to the Scheme Administrator to decide who receives the lump sum death benefit, but you can help by telling us who you 
would wish to receive the benefit. We are not however obliged  to follow your wishes ().
When Miss A passed away  the death  benefit  under her policies didnt automatically fall 
within her estate. And as Miss A didnt  place her policies in trust before she died her death 
benefits were held in discretionary trust. Because of this the Scheme Administrator, 
Standard Life could use its discretion and decide to whom any death benefits  would  be paid. 
It could choose  to pay the benefits to the legal representatives of Miss As estate (Miss As 
parents)  but it wasnt compelled to do so. 
I think Standard  Life initially seemed  to indicate that it couldnt pay the death benefits  to the 
estate. I think  that was wrong  it could make a payment to Miss As personal 
representatives, which amounts to the same thing.  But nothing  turns  on this as Standard Life 
later corrected the position and said that it could make  a payment to a personal 
representative. 
As Miss As parents may be aware  death benefits are sometimes  set up under a 
discretionary trust because if the policyholder had a complete and total say in who received 
the benefits, they could potentially be liable for inheritance tax.
The Scheme Rules did allow Miss A to provide an EoW. But they were  also clear  that 
Standard Life wasnt obliged to follow this. So although Miss As EoW confirmed she wished 
to leave her death  benefits to her parents and sister,  the form Miss A signed did say:
() you should understand that although  we will take your wishes  into consideration, we 
must consider all your circumstances.  We will pay to your trustees  any death benefits 
payable under the policies  which have been written  under trust ().
In addition to Miss As EoW Standard Life was also required  to investigate the circumstances 
when Miss A passed away.  And this meant  it could decide to distribute death benefits  
differently to Miss As EoW. I should say that a Scheme Administrator like Standard Life 
Ref: DRN11587736wont go against a policy holders wishes lightly and its reasons for doing  so should be 
justifiable. The use of discretion in a situation like Miss As can be particularly useful, 
especially given the passage of time between Miss As EoW, the birth of her son in 2009 and 
her sadly  passing  away  some time after this. Miss As son was a potential  beneficiary, born 
after Miss As EoW so it was correct that Standard Life included him as part of its 
consideration of who the death benefit should  be paid to.
From what  Ive seen Standard Life took reasonable steps to identify  any potential 
beneficiaries. And it was following  this that Standard Life determined Miss As son should be 
the sole beneficiary of the death benefit. At the time Miss A passed away  her son was a 
dependant. And as Standard Life confirmed, there  were a number of different classes  of 
potential beneficiaries of the death  benefit,  one of which  was a child of the policy  holder- if 
they were under the age of 23 they were  considered  a dependant. 
I havent seen  anything which persuades me that Standard Lifes exercise  of its discretion to 
choose Miss As son as the sole beneficiary  of the death benefit from his mothers  policies 
was unreasonable. 
Theres no dispute that Standard Life couldve chosen to pay the death benefit  to Miss As 
parents in their capacity  as Miss As parents, named in her EoW or as Miss As personal 
representatives and the administrators of her estate. However Standard  Life still decided 
Miss As son should be the sole beneficiary. Miss A passed away  without  a Will and had no 
surviving married or civil partner. Under the rules of intestacy, Miss As son inherited his 
mothers estate. Within  this context, Standard Lifes exercise of its discretion in Miss As 
sons favour seems reasonable.
However it seems to me Miss As parents real concern is not necessarily that Standard Life 
concluded Miss As son, their grandson should  be the sole beneficiary  of the death benefit. 
The issue  was what they saw (and still see) as the difficulties arising from this decision.
As Miss As son was a minor and only eight years  old when his mother passed away,  
Standard Life couldnt make the death  benefit payment directly to him. A payment of this 
nature to a minor would  ordinarily be paid to their legal  guardian.  In this case, thats  Miss As 
sons father. He has parental/legal responsibility  for Miss As son. Miss As son also resides  
with his father in his sole care. So in his capacity as Miss As sons legal guardian, Standard  
Life paid the death benefit for Miss As son to Miss As sons  father. I dont think  Standard  
Life made any error in doing this.
Its clear to me Miss As parents have strong concerns about the death benefit payment for 
Miss As son having been made  to Miss As sons father.  Indeed  they repeatedly made  
Standard Life aware  of their fears of their worries. I dont intend to make  any specific  
comment on or detailed  reference to these concerns and Ive done  this deliberately to 
ensure none of the parties are identified by this decision. Im mindful  also that while  
extensive representations have been  made  about  what Miss As parents believe Miss As 
sons father might do with his sons death  benefit payment, I havent seen anything to 
suggest Standard Life has been provided  with any persuasive evidence which  ought  
reasonably to have  caused it to reach a different decision regarding the death benefit 
payment. Im aware of the details provided by Miss As parents about  their daughters  
relationship with her ex-partner while she was alive. And while Ive considered this in 
reaching my decision about  Standard Lifes exercise of its discretion, Im still unable  to 
conclude Standard Life has acted inappropriately. 
Ref: DRN11587737I understand Miss As parents feel strongly Standard  Life has made the wrong decision. But I 
dont think it wouldve been  appropriate  for Standard  Life to dismiss or alter its decision Miss 
As son be the death benefit beneficiary  on the basis of what Miss As parent and sister have 
said or alleged  Miss As sons  father  might  do. 
Standard Life considered  all the relevant evidence and information before exercising its 
discretion. And having done  so it reasonably  decided the death  benefit should go to Miss As 
son. As a consequence of Miss As son being  a minor, the death benefit  payment needed to 
be paid via Miss As sons legal  guardian,  his father.
Miss As parents have said that instead  of making  the death  benefit payment to Miss As 
sons father Standard  Life shouldve paid the death  benefit to a trust they intended  to set up 
for Miss As son. I can see that Miss As parents made arrangements regarding this. But as 
has already been  explained, although  Standard Life could make  the death benefit payment 
to a trust set up in Miss As sons name,  it could only do this with the permission of Miss As 
sons father. It wasnt prepared to alter its decision that Miss As son was the sole 
beneficiary.
I think Standard  Life was clear about  the potential options available  if Miss As parents  
wanted Miss As sons death benefit  payment to be placed  in a trust. It was for Miss As 
parents to engage  with Miss As sons father  if they wished to reach an agreement regarding  
this.
Had Miss As policies been  placed in trust before she passed away the death benefit could 
under Scheme rules  be paid directly to the trustees of the trust she set up. But as Miss A 
didnt do this, her death benefit was held in discretionary  trust. And as Scheme  Administrator 
Standard Lifes  options were to pay the death  benefit to one or a number of the potential 
beneficiaries as determined by it. 
Standard Life couldve chosen to pay Miss As death  benefit to her parents and/or sister. But 
to do so, wouldve  meant Standard Life wouldve had to determine  that Miss As parents  and 
sister were beneficiaries  in place of or in addition to Miss As son. I dont think  this wouldve 
been reasonable given  the available evidence,  even if Miss As parents and sisters intention 
was to place any payment  they received in trust for Miss As son. Ultimately  Standard  life 
deemed Miss As son the beneficiary  with the strongest claim on the death benefit  payment 
and a payment  was in my view fairly made  to his father to reflect  this. 
I can see Miss As parents advised  Standard Life they didnt believe Miss As sons  father  
would ever agree to the death  benefit payment being made to a trust in Miss As sons  name.  
While this may or may not be the case, Im still not persuaded  this wouldve been reason 
enough for Standard Life to withhold the death  benefit payment to Miss As son via his 
father. As Standard Life explained, it was happy  to make the death benefit  payment to a trust 
in Miss As sons name  but could  only do this if it received instruction from Miss As sons 
father on the matter.  As Miss As sons father didnt provide any such  instruction regarding 
this I cant say Standard  Life made any error  in paying the death benefit  as it did. 
I can see that Miss As parents provided confirmation to Standard  Life that theyd  managed 
to get Miss As sons father  to renounce  his claim as a potential  administrator of Miss As 
estate. But I cant see that any confirmation was received  by Standard  Life from Miss As 
sons father to say he wanted  his sons death benefit payment to be made to a trust set up in 
his name.  
Ref: DRN11587738I think it was fair for Standard Life to pay the death benefit when it did and wouldnt have 
expected it to delay making  the payment in the absence of any direction from Miss As son 
father. I think it waited  a reasonable  amount of time to do this.
It isnt my role to replace the discretionary judgement Standard Life has already exercised 
with my own;  providing Standard Life has directed itself correctly and reached  a decision it 
could reasonably come to by taking into account the factors which are relevant. I think  it has 
here. 
I understand that this is a difficult and emotive  issue. But for the reasons  outlined above, I 
dont think Im in a position to say Standard Life exercised its discretion in an unreasonable 
manner. I appreciate Miss As parents continue to feel Standard  Life reached the wrong 
decision. But because  I think  it exercised  its discretion appropriately, there  isnt really 
anything more I can add and I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss As parents to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1158773