K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that West Motor Company  Limited  (the business) has unfairly  retained  his 
deposit payment.
background
In January 2017, Mr K visited the business and says that following a discussion he agreed to 
lease a vehicle.  He says that given his circumstances he wanted  to know if he would be able 
to increase the mileage on the hire agreement during its term. He says he was told this 
would be possible.  Mr K paid a deposit of £3,000. He says he was asked to sign a form and 
when he asked what this was he was told it was a purchase order. He says he noted that he 
wasnt purchasing  a vehicle but was told not to worry. Mr K says he wasnt  provided  with any 
terms or conditions at this time and was told these  would be sent in due course.
Mr K says he was told that the deposit  would  be refunded when he took possession  of the 
vehicle but he wasnt told it was non-refundable if he didnt go ahead  with the hire 
agreement.
Mr K says he then agreed with the business that the hire agreement could be delayed until 
March. He says the business didnt suffer any loss as a result  of this as it told him it had sold 
the vehicle that had been intended  for him. He also says that he was told the deposit could 
be refunded but then later told by the manager that this wasnt  going to happen and that a 
partial refund could  be given in full and final settlement. He didnt accept  this.
In March, when  Mr K was intending to enter into the hire agreement  he was provided with 
the documents and says he noticed there  was no reference to him being able to change  the 
mileage allowance. He asked about this and was told to contact the lease company which  he 
did. He says he was then told he wouldnt be able to change the mileage. Mr K contacted the 
business about this and asked for his deposit  to be refunded but he says the manager  was 
rude and that further attempts at contact  were ignored. 
The business says when a customer places an order with it, it then places an order for the 
vehicle and that once this has happened  the process cant be stopped. It says that Mr K 
placed an order and paid a deposit  and he was expected to take delivery of the vehicle. 
The business says that Mr K had two cancellations. It says it is not legally required to return 
the deposit and that it is allowed to recover any loss of profit.  It also noted that Mr K had said 
he cancelled  because  he wouldnt be able to change the mileage allowance  but that when  it 
had contacted the lease  company  it was told the mileage could be changed. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that she hadnt seen evidence  that Mr K had 
signed a document to say the deposit wasnt refundable and that the business hadnt 
incurred a loss as a result of the sale of the vehicles. Because of this she recommended  that 
Mr K be refunded his deposit payment of £3,000. 
The business didnt  accept our adjudicators view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12792432Based on the information I have seen, Mr K intended to enter into a hire agreement  for a 
vehicle. He initially intended to do this in January  2017 but then asked to delay the process 
for a couple  of months.  In March 2017, he looked  into the hire agreement  further  and found  
he wouldnt  be able to adjust the mileage allowance making him believe he was mis-sold the 
agreement. He decided to cancel  his order at this point. 
A copy of an agreement with Mr K has been provided and this shows it is a hire agreement 
regulated under the consumer credit  act 1974  (CCA). The business says that this would 
have been signed on the day the vehicle was collected.
The CCA sets out provisions for the withdrawal from a prospective agreement. Based on 
Mr Ks testimony I understand he made his intention to withdraw from the agreement  clear in 
March 2019 (this had followed a previous delay in January 2017). While I appreciate  that this 
would have been frustrating for the business, Mr K had the right to chose not to go ahead.  
Mr K had paid a deposit in anticipation  of entering into the hire agreement.  He understood 
this would be refunded when he took delivery of the vehicle. However he says he wasnt told 
it wound be refunded if he chose not to go ahead with the hire agreement. The business  
says that it tells customers that the deposit  is non refundable. I cannot say what  Mr K was 
told but as I have nothing to show that Mr K had understood or agreed  to the deposit being 
non refundable  I dont  find I can say for certain he was aware of this.
I have considered the regulations in regard to this issue and note that section 70 of CCA 
discusses the recovery of money paid in contemplation  of an agreement. I have taken this 
into account in deciding what I consider fair and reasonable in this case.
Mr K paid a deposit  in anticipation of entering into a hire agreement. He later chose not to 
enter into the agreement  and so didnt receive the benefit of the vehicle. No evidence has 
been provided to show  that Mr K was made aware  that the deposit was non refundable and 
while I note the comments the business  has made  about the time and costs it incurred 
through this process, no evidence has been provided to show any financial loss was incurred 
due to Mr Ks cancellation. Because of this I do not find it reasonable that the business has 
retained Mr Ks deposit and find that this should now be returned to Mr K.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. West Motor Company Limited should refund 
Mr K his deposit payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1279243