K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that despite repaying her overdraft Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to cancel it 
as instructed. As a result, Ms S has paid interest  and charges on the outstanding balance. 
background
Ms S says she opened  a current account and associated overdraft with Barclays  while  she 
was a student. In January 2016  Ms S paid in £2,000 and repaid  the outstanding overdraft 
balance. But the overdraft remained in place and Ms S continued to spend on the account.  
On 27 May 2016 Ms S again repaid the outstanding overdraft balance.  But the account 
became overdrawn  again on 1 June  2016  and Ms S has continued to pay interest and 
charges on the outstanding balance. 
Ms S has told us that when she changed  her name  with Barclays  in 2016 she asked it to 
remove her overdraft facility. 
Earlier this year Ms S complained to Barclays and it responded on 23 March  2019. Barclays  
agreed Ms S had amended her name in 2016  but didnt find anything to show shed asked 
for the overdraft to be cancelled. Barclays said that whilst Ms S had repaid the outstanding 
balance in 2016 shed continued  to use the overdraft  facility.  Barclays  didnt uphold Ms S 
complaint so she referred it to our service  and an investigator looked  at what had happened.  
The investigator thought Barclays had dealt  with Ms S complaint fairly so didnt ask it to take 
any further action.  Ms S didnt agree so her complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S recently explained that she tried to cancel the overdraft facility twice  in 2016. Once 
after she took out an interest  free credit  card and once when she inherited some  money.  On 
both occasions  Ms S says she used the funds available to repay the overdraft balance. Ms S 
says that when she met with Barclays to change her name  she asked for her overdraft 
facility to be cancelled  as well. 
Barclays says it has no record of Ms S asking  to cancel the overdraft. And Ive seen  
Barclays contact log which doesnt  contain any reference to a request  of that nature. I 
appreciate Ms S may have asked Barclays  to remove her overdraft facility  when  she 
changed her name, but I have to balance  that against the evidence that shows  she 
continued to use it and has had the benefit of the funds she borrowed.  
On 25 January 2016 a payment of £2,000 was made and after the outstanding overdraft was 
cleared the account had a balance of £8.86.  But payments over the following days took 
Ms S balance back into the overdraft. Ms S received a payment  of £386.95 on 
29 January 2016  which  temporarily brought her balance out of the overdraft. But payments 
leaving the account took the balance into the overdraft again on 2 February 2016. 
Ref: DRN10853572Ms S account was overdrawn until 27 May 2016 when two payments totalling  £1,720  were  
received and brought the balance to £863.60.  On 31 May 2016 a payment of £884.46 was 
received but £1,600 was transferred out the same  day which left an account balance of 
£119.63. On 1 June 2016 Ms S account became overdrawn again after payments were 
taken and in the following months  and the outstanding  balance  increased. 
Whilst I dont doubt  what Ms S says about  asking for her overdraft facility to be cancelled, 
she continued to use the facility for spending. If Barclays didnt cancel the overdraft Ms S 
could have made contact  again to check why it hadnt followed her instructions. In addition, 
Ms S could have stopped using the funds available. But as Ms S continued to use her 
overdraft facility Im not persuaded it would  be fair to tell Barclays to refund the interest  and 
charges shes paid. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms S but whilst  I accept  she may have asked Barclays to remove  her 
overdraft limit in 2016 I have to balance that against the fact that she has had the benefit  of 
the funds in question and continued to use the facility for spending. Barclays account terms 
say it will charge for its overdraft facility.  I think its fair for Barclays to charge Ms S in line 
with the account terms because  shes used  the overdraft facility. I havent found  grounds to 
tell Barclays to refund the interest or charges applied to Ms S account or uphold  this 
complaint. 
Ms S has told us shes going through a difficult period due to her health. I understand both 
the investigator and Barclays  have offered details  of organisations that may be able to help. 
If Ms S remains unsure about where  to get help shes welcome to get back in touch with our 
investigator who can provide some  additional  information. I appreciate  Ms S wants Barclays  
to refund the interest  and charges which she says have contributed to her situation.  But Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen that Barclays has dealt with this complaint fairly so Im not 
telling it to take do anything else. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1085357