K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that bathrooms  he bought  using  finance from Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc 
(trading as Hitachi Personal Finance) were poorly installed and caused water  damage to 
their house.
background
Mr S used a fixed sum loan agreement from Hitachi Personal Finance to pay for a new 
bathroom installation  in July 2017.  When he complained to the retailer about the quality of 
some of the work, and the ensuing water damage, it carried out remedial work and provided 
new materials to the value of £1,510. The retailer also offered to refund Mr S £1333.96 for 
tiles incorrectly applied  and pay him a further £950  for the delays, the inconvenience and re-
painting.
Mr S and Mrs S (his wife) said they did not accept that £950 was enough  money considering 
that a report commissioned by the retailer, through  the Furniture Ombudsman, said the 
retailer should be liable for any disruption caused  to existing fittings  when that leads to leaks 
and subsequent damage. They added that they still had an issue  with the toilet  and 
reservations about whether one of the workmen had the correct credentials. Mr and Mrs S 
also complained  about the customer service they had received from Hitachi  Personal 
Finance.
Hitachi Personal Finance said it could review  the cost of re-painting  the water  damaged  
rooms if further evidence was provided but advised that the best course of action would be 
to escalate the complaint with the Furniture  Ombudsman. It also said the Furniture 
Ombudsmans report had not found  the retailer to be liable for any issues  with the toilet. 
Nevertheless it apologised for its customer service  and arranged for £150 to be credited to 
Mr Ss finance agreement.
Mr and Mrs S added that they subsequently  provided quotes for re-painting, but these costs 
had not been taken  into account.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He was satisfied that the 
Furniture Ombudsmans reports,  commissioned  by the retailer, concluded that the toilet  was 
still not flushing properly. He was also persuaded that the water damage was caused by the 
fitting of the new bathrooms. Our investigator recommended  Hitachi  Personal Finance  
should pay for remedial work to the toilet and water-damaged rooms and pay Mr and Mrs S 
£200 compensation for the impaired usage  and upset.
Hitachi Personal Finance responded to say, in summary, that the retailer  had carried out 
reasonable remedial work  to the toilet but, as cited by the Furniture Ombudsman, further 
work to existing pipework  for the toilet should not reasonably be within  the remit of the 
retailer. It added that there was pre-existing  water  damage to two of the rooms  for which  
Mr S is claiming.
Mr and Mrs S added that they feel they should  be entitled to higher compensation for the 
length of time this has been continuing.
Ref: DRN13971912my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr S and to Hitachi Personal  Finance on 22 April 2020. I 
summarise my findings here:
I was satisfied that the newly fitted toilet was not fit for purpose and that Mr S was 
entitled to claim for remedial work  under Section 5 of the Consumer Credit  Act;
I could not conclude that water  damage  to the utility room was caused by the work 
that was carried  out as I found that a photo  taken before work started showed 
existing water damage marks;
I considered it more likely than not that the water damage to the lounge and 
cloakroom was caused by the work  that was undertaken and that Mr S should  be 
compensated for the cost of redecoration;
Hitachi Personal Finance says the £950  offered  by the retailer is still available  to 
Mr S and, as the credit provider, I explained it would have the responsibility  to ensure 
this settlement is carried out should Mr S accept  it;
I understood that neither the retailer, nor Hitachi Personal Finance, had ruled out 
helping with re-decoration  costs, and that £150  of the retailers  offer was for that 
purpose;
So my provisional decision was that Hitachi Personal Finance should pay for the toilet to be 
fixed and the redecoration costs of the lounge and cloakroom  less the £150 contribution for 
this offered by the retailer.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that:
The leak in the utility room was caused  by poor installation of the main  bathroom for 
which work commenced two months prior to the retailers survey in December  2017.  
Although he acknowledged  the retailer said the water damage  was noted in the 
summer of that year, Mr S said the contractor never  went  into the utility  room during 
that very first survey. He says the photo of the utility room supplied by him was taken 
after a leak in January 2018 caused  by waste pipes being incorrectly fitted;
The summary of the complaint does not fully capture the stress and inconvenience 
caused to himself and his family  by living without  a fully functioning toilet and water-
damaged rooms for three years;
oHe wanted  to further highlight the inadequacy of the original installer which  
resulted in them settling on a sink that was not their preferred option  and a 
complete dismantling of the toilet in the main bathroom after the wrong one 
had been poorly fitted;
They had never disputed that the peeling paint in the shower room  was not an issue 
caused by the installations;
The £200 award from our investigator was missing from the provisional decision;
He wanted  clarification of:
oWhether the offer from the retailer was still on the table;
oHow the compensation will be paid, especially given the cost of remedial work  
on the toilet is an estimate and is subject to what the plumber finds on site;
Hed also like proof of the £1,333.96 repaid for the incorrectly  applied tiles and the 
£150 credit to the finance agreement.
Hitachi Personal Finance responded to say, in summary, that it was awaiting acceptance 
from Mr S in order  to process the resolution  and that the retailer  also accepted the 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN13971913my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to the utility  room leak,  the water damage was noted on the report following the 
December 2017  inspection  prior to work that was carried  out on the shower room (directly  
above). The report  had been  commissioned due to dampness being evident around  the 
shower cubicle. The inspector  suspected  a waterproof  membrane had been  omitted  when 
the original shower  had been installed and there were indications  of historical dampness, 
including the stain on the utility room  ceiling. As the shower hadnt been  used for some time, 
these areas  were dry at the time of the inspection which  suggests  there  was no recent leak.
So I still consider  it more likely than not that the water  damage to the utility room  ceiling was 
not caused by the installations in question.
I accept Mr S, and his family, were caused  a great  deal of stress over a prolonged period by 
the ongoing issues with the installations. The £200  award for this from the investigators  
original assessment was not included in my provisional decision as Hitachi  Personal Finance 
had confirmed that the retailers £950 original offer was still available to Mr S. This included 
£800 for the delays and inconvenience  to Mr S and I find that to be a reasonable amount in 
the circumstances. As the credit provider, Hitachi Personal Finance has the responsibility to 
ensure this settlement is carried out should Mr S accept the decision,  although I note it has 
now confirmed the retailer also supports  the provisional decision.
As requested, Mr S has been  sent a statement showing the tile refund and the £150  credit.
Finally, if Mr S chooses to accept  this decision,  he is entitled to expect Hitachi Personal 
Finance to pay for the costs of the toilet repair and the redecoration upon providing it with 
reasonable evidence of those costs.
Based on the above, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc (trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance)  should:
Pay for the repair of the toilet and redecoration  of the lounge  and cloakroom less the 
£150 (which the retailer has said it will contribute);
Ensure the remaining  £800 offered by the retailer is paid to Mr S for the delays and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1397191