K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading  as Satsuma) gave  him 
loans that he couldnt afford to pay back.
background
Mr S took out nine instalment loans with Satsuma between April 2015 and March 2018.  Mr S 
has repaid all of his loans. He says that proper affordability checks  werent carried out and 
this has led to a spiral of debt. He wants a refund of interest and charges paid.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, he 
thought that the checks Satsuma did before making the first seven loans went  far enough.  
But he didnt think it had carried out adequate checks  before making the final two loans 
given Mr Ss borrowing history. He thought that by this point when  Mr S applied  for loans 8 
and 9 his pattern of lending showed he wasnt borrowing sustainably. So he recommended 
that Satsuma refund all interest  and charges  that Mr S paid on loans 8 and 9, with interest 
on the refund and all information about  these loans  should be removed from Mr Ss credit 
file.
Satsuma didnt agree and said that Mr S did not demonstrate any difficulty  in repaying his 
loans and the fact that he had a number of loans did not demonstrate  that he couldnt  
afford to repay them. It said that the checks it did for all the loans were  enough  in the 
circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr 
S could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given  loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which a customer  has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable.
Ref: DRN18620532There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able 
to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Satsuma to give Mr S loans 1 to 7. I say 
this because this was early in the lending relationship and there was nothing in the 
information given  by Mr S to suggest that further checks were  necessary. The amounts
Mr S had to pay back  appeared affordable on the basis of the income and outgoings  
he declared. There was a significant  gap in the lending between loans 2 and 3 and I 
think this was enough to reassure the lender that Mr S was using the borrowing short  
term.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma  should  reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Satsuma  should  have realised  
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  this point was reached  by loan 
8. I say this because:
 Mr S applied  for this loan after borrowing continually since the start of the second  
loan chain.
 I think  this should have put Satsuma  on notice  that it was likely  that Mr S was 
having problems managing his money. His borrowing pattern appeared at odds 
with his declared disposable income.  So I think it should have been concerned 
that he wouldnt  be able to repay the loan sustainably.
I think that Mr S lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing  for loans 
8 and 9. This is because:
 these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing  
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
Ref: DRN18620533 the number  of loans,  combined with the total length of time Mr S had been 
borrowing from Satsuma, was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ss 
ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 8 and 9. 
I dont agree  that the number of loans is not an indicator of difficulty and that the checks  
were enough. Once Mr S became  a prolonged borrower at the point of loan 8 I think  that 
Satsuma should  have done  more  to check whether his borrowing was sustainable and 
that further checks would have revealed that Mr S was in difficulty.
putting things right   what Satsuma needs to do
Satsuma should:
 refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 8 and 9;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 the number of loans Mr S has taken  with Satsuma and the total length of time hed 
been borrowing  from it means any information  recorded about loans 8 and 9 is 
adverse. So all entries about  these loans should be removed  from Mr Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Provident  Personal Credit
(trading as Satsuma) to put things right by doing  as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1862053