K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about nine instalment loans she took with Elevate Credit  International 
Limited (trading as Sunny). She says the loans  were  unaffordable. 
background
Sunny provided  Ms M with nine instalment  loans  between  November  and December 2017.  
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and agreed  that Sunny hadnt done  anything wrong 
when providing  the first three loans to Ms M. But they also thought that Sunny shouldnt  
have provided  loan 4 onwards to her. Sunny accepted the adjudicators  findings.  But Ms M 
didnt accept the offer and asked for an ombudsmans review. So, the complaint was passed 
to me to issue a final decision  on. 
Ms M hasnt responded directly and disagreed  with the redress offered for loans 4 onwards.   
So this decision is only looking at whether Ms M should have been provided with            
loans 1 to 3.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I think that what Sunny has already agreed to do 
put things right for Ms M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  So, I 
dont think Sunny has treated Ms M unfairly  or that it should  pay her any more 
compensation. Ill explain why.
Ms M was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Sunny needed  
to make sure that it didnt  provide  them  irresponsibly. In practice,  what this means is that 
Sunny needed  to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Ms M before providing  it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Sunny says it relied on what Ms M said about  having a monthly disposable income  which 
was enough to comfortably make  the repayments  for the first three loans. And based on all 
of this it thought  it was reasonable  to provide these loans. 
Ref: DRN15807592Its important to note that when Ms M applied for loans 1, 2 and 3, she did so over the space 
of seven days, prior to that she had no previous borrowing history  with Sunny. And I cant  
see anything to suggest that Sunny had reason  to question the information Ms M had 
provided. 
Overall, I dont  think that the pattern of lending had become demonstrably unsustainable  or 
harmful  such that I could reasonably say that the facts spoke for themselves by the time of 
loan 3. In my view,  there might have  been some warning signs,  especially given the fact    
Ms M was borrowing from Sunny in such rapid  succession. But I think  that its only by the 
time of loan 4 that Sunny ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that Ms M wasnt 
managing her money and was likely to be struggling financially. 
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything, Im not upholding the complaint 
about loans 1 to 3. And it follows that Im satisfied that what Sunny has already agreed to do 
(in terms of putting things  right for loans 4 to 9) is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ms case.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think what Elevate Credit International Limited has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Ms M is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1580759