K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about UK Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) handling of a claim he made on his 
legal expenses insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2019, part of which is copied 
below:
In July 2018  Mr H submitted a claim to UKI for cover to bring a claim against  a university. 
UKI asked  for further information  to consider whether it fell within policy  cover  but Mr H didnt 
provide what theyd asked for. As such UKI declined the claim on the limited information they 
had. Thats because it looked as though the insured event didnt fall within the period of 
cover. Mr H wants  us to consider whether UKI acted  reasonably  by doing this. 
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and thought that the issues  being  raised had 
already been considered and addressed in my decision  of June 2016. Because  of this he 
concluded that the complaint should  be dismissed on the basis  that dealing  with it would 
otherwise seriously  impair the effective operation of the Ombudsman  Service.  
Mr H doesnt agree. He says this is a new complaint about a new decision hes asking UKI to 
make in relation  to new facts. Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I currently  dont think  Mr 
Hs complaint should  be dismissed  but I also dont  think its one that should be upheld. Ill 
explain why.
I issued a decision in June 2016 about a claim Mr H made on his legal expenses insurance 
policy for cover to bring  a claim against  a university for a number of actions.  I didnt uphold  
that complaint  and I made a number  of findings.  Whilst the facts of that case  were very 
similar to those in this present complaint, the underlying claim Mr H wanted to bring 
concerned a different university.  Thats  why I dont think his current  complaint should be 
dismissed because  the subject  matter  of the complaint hasnt previously been considered by 
this Service in accordance with 3.3.4.BG(3)  which derives from DISP 3.3.4AR(5).
That said,  I dont think Mr Hs complaint should  be upheld for similar  reasons to those Ive 
addressed before- namely that the policy requires Mr H to give UKI full details of the claim or 
any other information they ask for in order to allow them to assess whether it falls within 
cover- and Mr H has failed to do this.  
UKI asked  for a copy  of an ET1 which they thought would detail the exact claim  Mr H wanted 
to bring.  This would include the date on which Mr H entered into a contract (or contracts) 
with the university,  what the university did (and when) to breach that contract as well as any 
other breaches of duty. Instead  Mr H provided a few short  lines setting out some dates and a 
few courses of action  in law, but nothing  more. That isnt in my view sufficient for UKI to 
assess his claim  or differentiate it from any others  hes made in the past against other 
universities. Nor does  it explain how his claim came about or the current status of the 
dispute. Because of this I dont think UKI acted unreasonably by not taking his claim any 
Ref: DRN18504012further.Mr H has made the point that the information UKI had asked for is subject to legal  privilege. 
As I explained in my previous  decision,  that privilege is Mr Hs to waive.  And Id expect him 
to do so if he wants UKI to consider funding his claim.
From what  Ive seen it looks like Mr H has been  in touch with a barrister about his claim but I 
dont think this or any advice he mightve  been provided with was sent to UKI. Its up to Mr H 
if he wants to disclose  this to UKI but without the information UKI needs to consider whether 
his claim falls within the basic parameters of cover, I wouldnt  expect  them to do anything 
more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
Mr H hasnt responded and UKI has said it has nothing  further to add. In the absence of any 
further submissions from either  party, I remain of the view that Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld for the same  reasons  set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against  U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1850401