K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about Lloyds Bank PLCs administration of their joint current  
account. They say that Lloyds errors have caused them significant distress.
background
Lloyds says that it received a death  certificate  in one of its branches and, on 28 September  
2018, it attached the death certificate  to Mr Ts profile and added a deceased marker to all 
his accounts.  As a result, Mr Ts debit card on the joint account was cancelled.
Mr T says he tried to use his card and the payment was declined.  Mr T called Mrs T at home 
to say so. Mrs T says she contacted Lloyds to find out why and she was informed that the 
card was blocked because Mr T had passed away. Mr T says Lloyds told them  the issue  was 
resolved but his card payment was declined on a second occasion.
Lloyds admits it made an error and had added the death certificate of another  customer to 
Mr Ts profile.  By 4 October 2018,  Lloyds had rectified its error and removed the deceased 
marker from Mr Ts accounts. 
Mr and Mrs T have  said the error  by Lloyds has caused a significant amount of distress  and 
inconvenience. Mrs T has provided  evidence to show that she suffers from a number of 
mental health illnesses and was on the road to recovery. But she says this incident had such  
a negative impact on her and has set her back, and she had to be sedated on the day the 
event took place. 
Mrs T has said shed  had suicidal thoughts  and the incident put a strain on Mr and Mrs Ts 
marriage, such that they were separated for a few weeks. Mr T has said Mrs Ts anxiety had 
meant that hes been unable to leave the house freely and has to give Mrs T detailed 
information about his whereabouts and when  hell return  home.
When Lloyds considered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint it delayed with providing a response  and 
when it did, it agreed  that it had made  an error and offered £350 in compensation for its 
error. As Mr and Mrs T didnt accept the offer, the complaint was looked at by one of our 
investigators.
Our investigator thought that Lloyds  hadnt handled  the complaint  fairly and recommended 
that Lloyds increased  its offer of compensation  to £500. Lloyds agreed to the investigators 
recommendation but Mr and Mrs T disagreed  and thought the compensation  should  be 
more. As Mr and Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important for me to explain that the role of this service  is to look at individual complaints. 
We consider whether  a business has made an error and how to put the consumer back  in 
the position theyd be in had an error  not been  made. We also consider the impact  on the 
consumer and decide a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint. This service 
doesnt punish, fine or regulate businesses and so this isnt something Ill be looking to do in 
my decision.
Ref: DRN11155372Its not in dispute  that Lloyds made an error,  both parties agree that a deceased marker 
shouldnt have been added to Mr T accounts. And because of the deceased marker Lloyds 
gave Mrs T incorrect information when she called to ask why Mr Ts card wasnt working. 
Lloyds accepts that its error had caused Mr and Mrs T upset. So my decision here focusses 
on the impact Lloyds error had on Mr and Mrs T and how Lloyds acted to correct the error.
Ive carefully considered  Lloyds offer of £500 for the trouble and upset caused and Ive 
thought about the impact its error has had on Mr and Mrs T. I can see that Mr and Mrs T feel 
strongly about this and that Lloyds error had put a strain not only on Mrs Ts health but also 
on their relationship.
While it isnt clear  how long Mr T was out on the day, I think  its clear  Mr and Mrs T had 
recent contact before  Mrs Ts call to Lloyds and her being misinformed. Also,  Mr T says he 
returned home to find Mrs T in distress on the same day.  I appreciate that Mrs T was quite 
distressed by the information but Im also mindful that shed have been aware relatively  
quickly that the information  from Lloyds  was incorrect having recently spoken to Mr T  since 
he called  her to say his card wasnt working  - and because  she saw Mr T later the same day.
Lloyds entered  the deceased marker on Mr Ts accounts on 28 September  2018 and from 
the case notes  Lloyds has provided, I can see that by 4 October 2018, the marker had been 
removed and Mr Ts cards unblocked.  During that period Mrs Ts card was active and I can 
see from the bank  statements  that Mrs T was able to use her debit card and the direct debit 
and standing order payments werent  affected. So it seems, it was only Mr Ts use of the 
joint account that was affected here.  
I acknowledge that Mr T says he was told by Lloyds that the error had been rectified but 
when he tried to use his card, it was again declined. Ive thought about the time it took 
Lloyds to put things right. Lloyds rectified the error within  a few days, by removing the 
marker and arranging to have  a new card issued to Mr T. So I think the offer of £500  by 
Lloyds is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand that my findings are likely  to disappoint  Mr and Mrs T but I hope my explanation 
helps them understand why Ive reached  these conclusions.
In Mrs Ts letter to this service dated  24 September 2019, she raised a further point about 
receiving five different  cards from Lloyds and letters from businesses about  direct debit 
payments not being made.  From  what I can see this isnt something that has been  raised  as 
a complaint directly  with Lloyds and as it didnt  form part of the initial  complaint raised with 
this service, I wont be making a decision about those matters here. If Mrs T wishes to 
pursue those points  further, shell need  to raise them with Lloyds directly in the first instance.
Ref: DRN11155373my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and direct  Lloyds Bank PLC to make a total payment of 
£500 to Mr and Mrs T. Lloyds already sent a cheque of £350,  so it should ensure it pays a 
further £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1115537