K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) wont pay her 
claim made on her commercial motor  insurance  policy for accidental  damage.  She wants  a 
settlement in excess of £10,000 to cover her losses.
background
Miss Gs lorry broke down and her recovery agent  attended.  He made  repairs and then told 
Miss G to drive her lorry to a garage rather than tow it. But the lorry shortly broke down 
again. The parts necessary for repair werent available and the lorry was a write-off. Miss G 
has lost income as a result. 
LV said the damage was wear and tear and so not an insurable event. Miss G thought  the 
recovery firm was LVs agent and its asking her to drive the lorry caused further damage or 
else the breakdown  was an unforeseen  event and so covered by her policy.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  there 
wasnt any evidence to show  that the recovery firm was acting as LVs agent. He thought  the 
available engineering evidence supported LVs conclusion that the damage was due to wear 
and tear. Miss G hadnt provided  further  engineering evidence or evidence  about the lorrys 
maintenance for LV to consider. 
Miss G replied  that if the lorry had been  towed  it could have been repaired. She said the 
request for the lorrys service history  was false as shed only had the lorry for two and a half 
years. She provided a telephone number for a garage to discuss  the damage  to the lorry. 
And she later provided a list of services provided by the garage.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss G is adamant that if the lorry had been  towed  to the garage it could have 
been repaired. But LVs engineer said the damage  had already been  done before the lorry 
was towed. LV said it had declined the claim as it said the damage was due to mechanical 
failure and this wasnt covered by the policy. It said that if Miss G thought the recovery firm 
had caused the damage,  then she should complain to it. LV said it hadnt  appointed the 
recovery firm.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I can see that Miss Gs policy has an exclusion from cover for damage caused by wear  and 
tear. This isnt unusual in policies Ive seen. So Ive looked to see what  evidence LV 
considered in applying the exclusion.  
The investigator has already explained that this service doesnt assess  whether or how 
damage to a vehicle  would  be caused  as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints  is to determine 
whether an insurance  company has considered all the available evidence  and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for a claim.
Ref: DRN12767452LVs engineer said the damage was caused to the lorry by wear and tear due to poor 
maintenance. The recovery firm had attempted repairs but he thought  the damage had 
already been caused so LV couldnt hold it liable. Ive seen the reports provided by the 
engineer and I can see that hes suitably  qualified to provide  these  conclusions.  
Miss G said she had advice from two engineers that the damage to the lorry was accidental. 
LV offered  to consider reports from these engineers. But I cant see that Miss G has 
provided them. Miss G did provide a telephone number  for a garage,  but I dont think this 
constitutes evidence  for LV to consider. 
LV also offered to consider evidence of the lorrys maintenance. It asked for the lorrys 
service records  for the past five years. I understand that Miss G had the lorry for less than 
five years.  But I can see that shes now provided  a printout of service  records  for LV to 
consider. But the engineer said the printout  only covered MOTs and break downs. He said 
there was no evidence of maintenance,  such as lubrication and suspension checks, carried 
out in the past year.  And I cant see this either.  He said the printout didnt change his view 
that the lorry sustained mechanical failure. 
So as I cant see that LV had any other  expert engineering evidence  to consider, I think that 
it could reasonably rely on that provided by its engineer. So I cant say that it was wrong  for 
LV to decide to decline the claim because  of the policy  exclusion for wear and tear. 
Miss G also thought that the recovery firm was responsible for the damage.  But I cant see 
from the policy documents  that Miss Gs policy  with LV provides for breakdown recovery.  So 
I dont think LV appointed the recovery firm or that it acted as its agent. I think the recovery 
firm was appointed  by her broker. And so I cant hold LV responsible for its actions. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1276745