K820x#14complaint
Mr P, through his claims management  company (CMC) has complained about the suitability 
of the advice he received  from Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited  in 1995 to take out a 
whole of life policy.
background
Mr P and his wife met with an adviser from the business in July 1995 following a review  of a 
pre-existing whole  of life policy.
At that time it was noted that the level of cover  for Mr Ps existing policy was reducing 
following a review. It was also recorded in the fact find recorded at the time of the sale that 
Mr P was married  and both Mr and Mrs P were  aged  in their forties.  They  were  both working  
with Mr P earning  around  £25,000  a year and Mrs P earning  around  £8,000  a year.  Their  
disposable monthly income was in the region  of £800.
Mr and Mrs P had two dependent children and they did not have a mortgage. It was noted 
that they had a need for life cover  as well as critical illness cover. Mr Ps potential  inheritance  
tax liability  was also discussed.
Mr Ps existing  policy allowed him to take additional cover  using  the guaranteed insurability 
option. This allowed him to take further  life cover without the need to declare changes  to his 
health. 
The policy had a sum assured at outset of just under £60,000.  It was reviewed at the ten 
year point and the sum assured was reduced  to £42,144. Mr P then surrendered  the policy  
in 2015.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators who was of the view it couldnt  be 
upheld. She was satisfied Mr P had a need  for life cover for the whole of his life. She also felt 
the policy was affordable  for him.
Mr Ps CMC  didnt accept the assessment. So as no agreement could be reached  the 
complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Due to how long ago the sale took place there  is little information available.  However the fact 
find document has been provided by Abbey and this shows that Mr P sought a review  of his 
protection himself  following the ten year review of his existing policy. It also records his 
personal circumstance as detailed above.
Given his circumstances  and also his recorded need for life I cant say this whole of life 
policy was unsuitable  for him. I appreciate that he had dependent children, so it could be 
argued that life protection could have only been  needed until they stopped being dependant 
on him. However while the details in the fact find stated he wanted life protection  it doesnt 
state that he wanted this protection only for a specific  term. Also,  because  the fact find 
Ref: DRN10866712details he wanted  to think about inheritance tax mitigation its also appropriate that he was 
recommended a policy that would pay a lump sum upon his death whenever  that may be 
rather than only during a specific term.
I know there is always the possibility for any reviewable whole of life policy  to require 
increases in the premiums to maintain the initial  desired  sum assured at some point during 
the life of the policy; which could  make the policy  unsuitable  for inheritance  mitigation. But, 
Abbey has confirmed to me that this policy was set up on what  would be the equivalent of a 
standard cover basis now. This means  that it was more likely that the sum assured would 
stay at the desired level for longer  than whole of life polices set up on a different basis. So 
given this I cant safely conclude the policy was unsuitable even taking account of the fact Mr 
P wanted to think about his inheritance protection.
Over therefore, while there is very little information,  given what  I have seen and the recorded  
needs and objectives of Mr P at the time of the sale I cant safely conclude  the policy  wasnt 
suitable for him. And I think it largely  provided the protection he was looking for at that time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1086671