K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs K complained because National Westminster Bank  Plc refused to let them
transfer (port) their existing mortgage. They  said that the property they wanted  to buy did
meet the banks  published lending criteria.
As a result of NatWests rejection of the new property, Mr and Mrs K were  charged an early
repayment charge  (ERC).  Theyd like this refunded, with compensation for stress,  and for
two weeks of temporary accommodation caused by the delay in finding  an alternative lender.
background
Mr and Mrs K had an existing mortgage with NatWest  which  had a porting facility.  In June
2018, Mr K accepted  a new job which meant  he and his family needed to relocate.  Mr Ks
start date was in mid-September, and Mr and Mrs K had children who would be starting at
their new schools in September.
Mr and Mrs K found a property in their new area and approached NatWest about porting
their existing mortgage to the new property. They completed a fact find and mortgage
illustration with a NatWest adviser  on 7 July. On 9 July, NatWests underwriters agreed their
application, subject  to the mortgage valuation.
But on 13 July NatWest  rang Mr and Mrs K. The valuation completed  on 12 July had come
back with only one of the boxes filled in by the surveyor. This said:
We believe  that the original part of the property is formed of older style soft wood timber
frame being constructed in 1911  and as such would not meet this lenders lending criteria
and as such cannot be considered a suitable [sentence incomplete].
As a result of the valuation, NatWest  refused  to port Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage.
Mr and Mrs K complained. They said that the lending criteria on NatWests website said that
the type of timber construction  of their proposed property was acceptable. It was 100%
timber construction  with no cavity wall insulation. On 19 July they applied to another  lender,
and they bought their new property through that lender.
In its reply to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint, NatWest said that its mortgage adviser had made a
mistake, because he hadnt  known that the bank didnt lend on old style soft wood  timber
frame properties.  It refunded the valuation fee, and removed the searches on Mr and Mrs Ks
credit files. But it said the initial mortgage  porting request  had only been a guide  to indicate if
an application would be successful, and it wasnt a formal mortgage agreement or offer.  And
the survey had been carried out by a suitably qualified  independent  surveyor.  Shed advised
that it was older  style soft wood timber frame.  This made it unacceptable to the bank
because this construction would severely impact  future saleability. So NatWest  said the ERC
would still be payable.  It told Mr and Mrs K that if they believed  the independent companys
survey had any element  of misconduct, they could complain to the surveyor  or to the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors  (RICS).
Mr and Mrs K werent satisfied and complained to this service. They said that NatWests
published lending  criteria clearly  stated that the type of timber  construction used in the
property was acceptable. And they said that the value of the building plot alone  would
provide adequate security for the loan theyd applied  for, which  had only been for 40% of the
Ref: DRN14963412agreed sale price.
Mr and Mrs K said they knew about  the ERC  when  theyd taken out their NatWest mortgage
product, but they hadnt expected to be penalised by NatWest  refusing to port their mortgage
on totally unreasonable grounds. They asked for the £6,107.73 ERC  to be refunded;  for
compensation for stress;  and for two weeks of temporary accommodation costs caused  by
the delay by having to find an alternative lender.
The adjudicator upheld Mr and Mrs Ks complaint in part. She said that the website  for
brokers, which had set out which properties were  and werent acceptable could  have been
more clear. But she said that website wasnt for customers, but for mortgage  brokers  to get
an overview on the banks lending criteria before making further  enquiries.  So she didnt
think NatWest had acted  unfairly with this published lending criterion.
Nor did the adjudicator think NatWest had to refund  the ERC, because  Mr and Mrs K could
have found another property with an acceptable construction, and this would have saved
them the ERC.
But the adjudicator considered NatWest should have asked more questions  about the type
of timber at the application stage. During the fact finding process,  the property had been
described as a timber  framed property built in 1918. If the adviser  had looked at the banks
Property Criteria  construction  types, hed have seen that softwood timber framed
construction before 1965 might not be acceptable. Then Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have had to
go through two mortgage applications,  and they wouldnt have thought the application was
going through smoothly.
The adjudicator set out what had happened afterwards. Mr and Mrs K had applied to a new
lender on 19 July, and had a mortgage offer on 7 August.  The new property didnt complete
until 14 September. So theyd asked for NatWest to reimburse the cost of this temporary
accommodation from 31 August to 14 September.
The adjudicator explained that shed initially thought  Mr and Mrs K would have needed to
pay for this temporary accommodation even if theyd been  getting a NatWest  mortgage,
because there had been legal delays. But Mr K had explained that the seller had stopped
legal work  when he discovered  Mr and Mrs K had been refused a NatWest mortgage. So the
adjudicator thought that NatWest should  reimburse  the costs of the temporary
accommodation, because  the adviser  hadnt picked up that the property didnt meet  the
lending criteria. Mr and Mrs K had provided invoices showing this was £693.50. And she
also considered  the bank  should pay £200 to acknowledge the stress and inconvenience
caused by not establishing whether  the property fitted the lending  criteria during the fact
finding process.
Both NatWest, and Mr and Mrs K, disagreed  with the adjudicators view.
NatWest said its mortgage adviser wouldnt have been able to identify whether the property
was suitable for mortgage purposes  or not. It said there were  over 570 different construction
types, and the list was continually under review. The mortgage advisers werent qualified
surveyors. So they couldnt provide any expertise  on the construction  of properties, and not
was it reasonable  to expect the advisers to ask customers extra questions about
construction. Only a qualified surveyor could decide.
Mr and Mrs K said:
Ref: DRN14963413-They understood an ERC was to compensate the lender if a borrower  chose to end 
the contract. But in their case,  the bank was misusing the clause to penalise  them  
unfairly. It had withheld the lending criteria from them.  
-The valuation had consisted of just one incomplete sentence. It had failed to highlight 
that about half of the property was built in the late 1990s, and no valuation figure had 
been given. 
- Theyd made numerous  calls to NatWest before, during and after the application to 
port their mortgage, asking about  lending  criteria for timber-framed properties. It 
wasnt fair that NatWest hadnt made  lending  criteria  available;  that its own advisers 
hadnt been able to answer  the specific  question; and the only publicly  available  
information had said the construction was acceptable.
-    They believed  NatWest should have  taken into account that half was constructed  in 
the late 1990s and if necessary made a condition that they should  adapt the original 
part of the house.  They said they were providing  a 60% deposit  and could  have 
adapted the property to meet the banks lending  criteria.
- They didnt agree that they could have found another  property which NatWest would
have found acceptable. They said Mr Ks job offer, and the childrens school places,
committed them to move in early September. It had been a five-hour round trip to 
their new location  when theyd been looking for a property to buy. And to obtain 
school places in the relevant village theyd had to apply in summer. There  werent 
any other properties for sale at that time in the catchment area of the school that had 
accepted them. And as NatWest didnt share its lending  criteria, they still wouldnt 
have known if any other property would have  met the criteria.
my provisional findings
I issued  a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered  all 
the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said that the website document which Mr and Mrs K sent to 
us is from a website  intended  for intermediaries. Mr and Mrs K didnt use an 
intermediary but went direct to NatWest  on an advised basis.  Nevertheless, the website 
is publicly available. This says:
Property types  acceptable
Subject to the valuer confirming saleability and suitability  for mortgage purposes,  we can
lend against the following:

100 % timber construction.
I considered there had been some confusion  here.  This refers to properties which are 
completely made of timber  such as barn conversions. I didnt have  full details of the 
property, but the surveyors comment referred to  older style soft wood timber frame  being 
constructed in 1911. Timber  frame  isnt the same  as 100%  timber. And in any case, the 
heading says its subject to the valuers report.  So I couldnt accept that this publicly-
available website document was sufficient for Mr and Mrs K to rely on, in order to assume 
Ref: DRN14963414the property would be acceptable. I bore in mind  Mr Ks professional expertise which  meant 
that I thought hed know the difference between 100%  timber,  and timber framed.
I considered whether or not NatWests mortgage adviser on 7 July should have known
whether or not the property would be acceptable. NatWests own evidence was conflicting.  
In the final response  dated 26 July, the bank said An error was made at the outset as our
personal mortgage adviser should  have been  aware  that we do not lend on old style soft
wood timber frame  properties.  This conflicted with what NatWest said later to this service 
that there  were over 570 different construction types on the list of unacceptable types, and it
wasnt reasonable to expect  its mortgage adviser  to have been familiar with this list, or
provide any expertise on the construction of properties. I consider that property construction
type is complex, and I dont find that the mortgage  adviser should have known.
But I considered  that what  should  have happened is that NatWests mortgage adviser on 7 
July should have said that he didnt  know whether  or not Mr and Mrs Ks prospective 
purchase would be an acceptable type of security  and this couldnt be known until the 
surveyor had been to inspect the property. On balance, I considered the adviser  didnt say 
this, and that he made an error in not doing  so.
This meant that from Saturday 7 July to Friday 13 July, when NatWest told Mr and Mrs K
that it couldnt lend on the property, Mr and Mrs K believed they could go ahead with the
mortgage. When considering compensation, I have  to consider the impact  which  any error
had.
It wasnt possible for me to say with certainty  what Mr and Mrs K would  have done  if theyd
correctly been  told a week earlier  ie on 7 July  that NatWest might not lend on their
proposed property. They might have gone  straight to look for another  lender, saving
themselves a week on the timescales. Or, because they didnt want to have to pay the
substantial ERC, they might have waited the week until they knew what  the surveyor  said.
As the ERC  was substantial, I think its more likely that theyd have gone for the second
option  in which case there  would have been no difference in practical timescales. But even
if theyd looked  elsewhere straightaway, it was only one weeks  delay in approaching  a new
lender. So I couldnt agree that paying compensation for two weeks  accommodation costs 
was justified.
I also had to bear in mind  that the timescales  were  very tight in any case. Mr and Mrs K
had wanted to be in their new location  before Mr K started his new job and the children
started at new schools. I recognised that Mr K only accepted his new job on 28 June. But
wed consider that a timescale of up to eight weeks from application to offer is normal, with
more time between offer and completion  depending on the individual  circumstances of the
parties to the sale. So even  if the NatWest mortgage had gone ahead, it was always entirely
possible that Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have been  able to complete by their preferred deadline
anyway.
Given these circumstances, it wasnt open to me to award compensation for the temporary
accommodation which Mr and Mrs K had from late August until completion on their new
purchase in mid-September. At most, NatWests mortgage advisers failure  to tell them that
the property might not be an acceptable  security delayed their knowing the risk by a week.
And they might well not have been in the new property within their preferred timescale
anyway.
I also considered whether  NatWest should refund the ERC, as Mr and Mrs K would like.
Ref: DRN14963415They argued that an ERC exists to compensate lenders should the borrower  choose  to 
terminate the contract, and they said this wasnt the case in their situation. But it was Mr and 
Mrs Ks decision not to look for another property, when they found out on 13 July that the 
one theyd chosen wasnt acceptable.  I recognised that Mr and Mrs K were keen to have  
moved before Mr K started  his new job and the young children  started in their new schools. 
Thats quite  understandable.  And looking for a property from a distance, within a short 
timescale, wouldnt have  been easy.  But these constraints werent NatWests fault. They 
were unfortunate circumstances and I recognised it was a difficult situation. But I couldnt 
say it was NatWests fault that Mr and Mrs K decided to go to a different lender, rather  than 
look for another property to which they could potentially have ported their existing mortgage. 
So I didn't  consider NatWest need  refund the ERC.
This service cant consider complaints against  surveyors. So I didnt  comment on the 
valuation that was completed for NatWest to assess whether or not the property was suitable 
security. All NatWest was required to do was ensure that the valuation  was completed by 
someone professionally competent.  The surveyor was professionally  qualified,  so NatWest 
was not responsible beyond this. In any case, however, it didnt appear to be disputed  by 
anyone involved that at least part of the property was constructed from softwood  before 
1965, which was the date after which NatWest  would consider a property  for mortgage. And 
although Mr and Mrs K said they should  have had a chance to rectify  the property, I cant  
see that they specifically complained about this to NatWest, and had a final response about 
it, before  referring their complaint to this service.  So I cant  consider this.
Finally, I went  on to consider any compensation for distress and inconvenience. Even
though I had found that there was only a week between the advisers failure to warn
Mr and Mrs K that there might be a problem, and the return of the survey, I still considered  
that Mr and Mrs K did suffer distress and inconvenience. They  were  misled into believing  on 
7 July that everything would go ahead,  subject to the valuation. I found it was fair and 
reasonable that NatWest refunded the valuation fee, and removed the credit card searches.
But I considered  that NatWest should  also pay Mr and Mrs K £150 for the distress and
inconvenience caused by the advisors  failure to warn them  on 7 July.
responses to my provisional decision
NatWest said it had nothing to add.
Mr and Mrs K said they strongly  disagreed with the provisional decision.  They  sent a detailed  
objection. This said:
period of delay
Mr and Mrs K said that the period of delay had been from 18 June, which was the first 
time they contacted NatWest to check the banks lending criteria about older style timber  
framed properties, to when they received a phone call from NatWest on 13 July, which  
told them  older  style timber framed properties  didnt  meet their criteria. So the period of 
delay was 4 weeks.
lending criteria
Mr K said he had simply wanted to establish  whether the general  construction  type was 
acceptable in principle, before agreeing to buy the property and proceeding with the 
mortgage application. He had asked  NatWest for a copy of the relevant section of the list, 
Ref: DRN14963416as he had professional expertise which meant he could understand it  but the bank had 
refused. He said that it wasnt in fact until he was discussing  the matter with our 
adjudicator that hed found out the specific criterion for declining  the mortgage  was pre-
1955 timber frames.
Mr K said that NatWest had admitted theyd made an error,  because its mortgage 
advisers should be aware that the bank didnt lend on older style timber framed 
properties. So he considered it wrong  that I had discounted NatWests admission.
Mr K said that, apart from the banks admission, NatWest advisers should be aware of 
general construction types. They didnt have to be familiar with the list, but could access it 
during phone calls and should be able to check if asked whether the bank lend on older 
style timber framed properties. Mr K had told them  what the construction  was, and all the 
advisers needed to do was look up the available information. 
Mr K argued that it wasnt reasonable  that NatWest failed to answer  a simple query about 
its own lending criteria.  And it was that failure which led to Mr and Mrs K having to pay 
the ERC.  If Mr and Mrs K had been  told NatWest  wouldnt lend on older  style timber 
framed properties before making an offer on the property, they might  have reconsidered 
their plans and saved the ERC. Mr and Mrs K also pointed out that their new lender  had 
confirmed its lending  criteria before they went ahead  with a mortgage application  so 
NatWest should  have been able to do so too.
ERC and reasonable pre-estimate of costs
Mr and Mrs K said they didnt believe that the ERC theyd been charged  reflected a 
reasonable pre-estimate of costs, in line with mortgage rules.  They  want  NatWest to 
provide justification.  And they quoted another case which this service  had considered, 
about a reasonable pre-estimate of costs.
valuation
Mr and Mrs K said that the provisional  decision didnt address  their complaints about the 
valuation:
- They said it wasnt true that NatWest  had carried out a proper mortgage valuation  
in accordance with RICS  procedures, as the bank had said.  
- Mr and Mrs K said theyd contacted  the surveyors direct, after receiving the 
provisional decision. The surveyor had told them that as the valuation  had been 
done for NatWest,  NatWest would have to make a complaint before RICS would 
investigate.
- They hadnt complained to the bank about not being able to rectify  the older part 
of the house  because the valuation had failed to highlight that half of the 
property had been  constructed in the 1990s.  
Hearing request
Mr and Mrs K requested a hearing  with this service and NatWest  about their complaint.  
They submitted reasons  why they believed  a hearing was necessary. I considered Mr and 
Mrs Ks request. I concluded that the information  that Mr and Mrs K had provided  was 
detailed and full, so there was no need for a hearing  to establish this. 
my findings
Ref: DRN14963417Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In particular Ive looked at what Mr 
and Mrs K said in their detailed responses  to the provisional decision.
period of delay
I note that Mr and Mrs K believe that the period of delay should be counted  from the first 
time they contacted NatWest to check its lending  criteria about  older  style timber framed  
properties. Ive looked on NatWests contact  notes. Theres a call record for 22 June, 
which says Mr querying porting and wanting to instruct valuer on new timber framed  
property. Confirmed process and needs  offer accepted on both properties. Timber  frame 
is 100 years old so not on construction type list, so down to valuation  which  is usually first 
thing instructed after application  keyed.
I accept that Mr K first asked the question  about  lending criteria at that point. But as I 
dont think the banks adviser was incorrect in what he or she said, I dont consider the 
delay should be counted  from that date. In my provisional decision,  I considered  that 
NatWests adviser on 7 July did make  an error.  I said that because  he didnt tell Mr K that 
it couldnt be known  until the surveyor had been  out. But the 22 June adviser didnt make 
that mistake.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs K believe that the banks advisers  should  have been able to 
tell them  whether the property type was within  the banks lending criteria.  And I also 
recognize that Mr Ks professional expertise meant he had an accurate knowledge of 
what the actual  construction  was  which few mortgage applicants  would know.  But I still 
dont consider that NatWests mortgage  advisers could be expected to give definitive 
answers about construction types. Mr K has said that their replacement lender  did so, but 
that doesnt change my opinion. I find it wasnt unreasonable for the bank to rely on its 
professional surveyors  for a proper opinion.
lending criteria
I understand that it would  have been  frustrating for Mr K to have asked for NatWests list 
of construction  types, but to have been refused. Because of his professional expertise, 
that would  have given him the information  he wanted about  the banks criteria.  But 
NatWest wasnt obliged  to provide  any customer with the information on which  it based its 
lending decisions,  because that was commercially  confidential.
In the provisional  decision, I did find that NatWest  had made  an error. I did not discount  
its admission, but as NatWest had sent a conflicting version to this service,  I set out in my 
decision the two versions,  in order  to determine  which I found to be correct. As the 
provisional decision said, I found that on balance  it was more likely  than not that the 
banks July adviser had made a mistake.
Ive set out in the previous  section my view that the bank wasnt  obliged  to ensure its 
mortgage advisers could provide definitive answers about construction  types.  I dont 
consider that such a query would be simple,  and I find that it wasnt  unreasonable for the 
bank to rely on its professional surveyors to determine the answer.
ERC and reasonable pre-estimate of costs
Ref: DRN14963418Mr and Mrs K have  not previously raised  a complaint that the ERC  was not a reasonable 
pre-estimate of NatWests  costs.  This service  can only consider complaints where the 
consumer has first complained to the bank and given  it an opportunity to reply. So if 
Mr and Mrs K wish to raise this with NatWest, they will need to raise  a new complaint with 
the bank. I cant consider  it as a new part of their existing  complaint.
valuation
I recognise that Mr and Mrs K would  like further comments about the valuation. But this 
service does not deal with complaints  about  surveyors. And I cant comment  on the 
conversation that Mr and Mrs K say theyve had with the surveyors  direct.
Having considered these points, I find no reason to depart from my original  conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order National  Westminster  Bank  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs K £150   
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1496341