K821x#15complaint
Mr M says PDL Finance  Limited trading as Mr Lender.co.uk (PDL Finance) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 3 loans which PDL Finance provided to Mr M between November 
2014 and January 2015. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 07/11/2014 25/11/2014 1 £400.00 £520.00
2 25/11/2014 19/12/2014 2 £750.00 £600.00
3 25/01/2015 28/08/2015 6 £750.00 £265.00
Mr M complained that PDL Finance failed to carry out affordability assessments before  
lending to him. And if it had, it would have realised  Mr M could not afford to repay the loans.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the loans from loan 2 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. PDL Finance disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked us 
what other checks we had made to reach  this answer. The complaint was then passed to me 
to look at again.
Neither party made any comments about  loan 1 being rejected, so in this decision, I only 
need to look at loans 2 and 3. However,  I will look generally at all the loans  and the full loan 
history to assess the case fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL Finance  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL Finance should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN13098032the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I dont think  we reach  that point here 
in Mr Ms case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL Finance was required to 
establish whether  Mr M could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 2 would most likely  have shown  
that the highest monthly repayment  was a significant  proportion of Mr Ms declared income 
of £1,320. So there was a significant  risk he wouldnt have been able to meet his existing 
commitments without  having to borrow again  and with this background, he was unlikely to be 
able to sustain  loan 2 onwards. So I dont think PDL Finance should have given loans 2 
onwards to Mr M.
We did not get any further information  from Mr M, but I think we have  enough grounds here 
to uphold the complaint about loans 2 and 3 and PDL Finance should put things right.
putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  2 and 3 (inclusive); 
pay 8% simple interest a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loans 2 and 3 (inclusive) from Mr 
Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
PDL Finance  Limited must  give Mr M a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he 
asks for one.
Ref: DRN13098033my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1309803