K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link Financial) wont  write  off his 
outstanding debt.
background
Mr G contacted Link Financial in November 2017 to ask them  to write-off the outstanding 
debt he had with them. He included a letter from his GP which outlined his health and how 
the debt was having an adverse effect  on his life.
 
Mr G says Link Financial  didnt  get back to him about this.
In response, Link Financial have said they did contact him in December 2017 and      
January 2018,  but didnt get a reply from him. They say they did hear from another  
organisation  on behalf  of Mr G  in January and February 2018, where  it was confirmed 
that Mr G had a monthly disposable income of around £35.
Mr G was paying Link Financial £5 at the point he wrote to them  and just over £6 from   
May 2018 onwards. And they say, when  they contacted Mr G in February  2018,  he 
confirmed he was happy to keep paying  the £5 each  month.  They also said they didnt think  
they had breached any of the relevant guidelines  that applied  to their organisation.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Gs complaint and informally recommended  that Link Financial 
write off Mr Gs debt  taking into account his health  and the fact that it would take over 100 
years to pay the debt off, at the monthly rate of £5. Link Financial said theyd  consider 
looking at this again, if they were  provided  with up-to-date information  about Mr Gs financial  
situation.
Our investigator didnt  think that was necessary  Mr Gs financial circumstances hadnt 
changed since hed last provided income  and expenditure information  and she thought that 
Link Financial should make a decision based  on what was available.
After sending a written view to Mr G and Link Financial, she heard nothing further from Link 
Financial. So the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint.
Under section 7.2 of the ConsumerCredit  Sourcebook (CONC) it says:
In developing  procedures  and policies for dealing with customers who may not have 
the mental capacity  to make financial decisions,  firms may wish to have regard  to the 
principles outlined in the Money Advice Liaison Group (MALG) Guidelines Good 
Practice Awareness Guidelines for Consumers with Mental Health Problems and 
Debt.
And under section  13 of the Good Practice Awareness Guidelines for Consumers with 
Mental Health Problems and Debt,  it also says:
Ref: DRN13571692Creditors should consider writing  off unsecured debts when mental health conditions 
are long-term, hold out little likelihood of improvement, and are such  that it is highly 
unlikely that the person in debt would be able repay their outstanding debts.
A footnote adds:  
Firms should also have  regard to FCA CONC 7 dealing with arrears, default and 
recovery, including treating customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration.
So, Ive considered Mr Gs health  and his ability to repay the debt in light of this guidance.
From the information I have, I can see that Mr G has had the same health  issues  since  at 
least 2014  when he wrote to Link Financial  to say his health had not improved and his 
circumstances were  unlikely to change for the foreseeable future. He also said he was 
barely able to pay them, was worried about losing his job and described the debt as an on-
going burden that stopped him having  a normal life. He asked them  to write-off his debt.
He further wrote to them in July and November 2017  again asking them  to write-off his 
debt. And with the latter, he included a note from his GP, which  explained the serious impact 
the outstanding debt was having on Mr Gs health.
From this, I think  its clear that Mr Gs health  condition is exacerbated by his financial 
worries. And his health issues are long-term and have not improved.
When Mr G brought the complaint to us, he still owed  around £6,300.  If he continues to pay 
Link Financial £5 a month, it will take him a further 100 years to clear  the debt. And even if 
he paid at the slightly higher rate of just over £6, it will still take over 85 years.
In addition, income and expenditure  information  from December 2016 and February  2018  
show no change in Mr Gs expendable income   which  is £35 each time. Its worth  noting 
that Mr G had cancelled  pension/life assurance  payments by February 2018 which meant  he 
still had the £35 as spare  income.  My understanding is that his financial situation still hasnt 
changed.
So, I think its likely  even if Mr G did produce new income and expenditure information  it 
wouldnt show an improvement in his finances.
Im also aware that  through  a third party organisation  all of Mr Gs spare income is used 
to pay off other debts.
So  taking  into consideration  how much  expendable income Mr G has available  for his debt 
with Link Financial and the amount outstanding  I think its highly unlikely Mr G will ever be 
able to pay this off.
Taking this and Mr Gs poor health  into consideration  and thinking  about what  CONC says 
about the MALG  guidelines  I think it would be reasonable  to tell Link Financial to write-off 
Mr Cs outstanding debt with them.
Id like to add that I do think Link Financial have gone some way to help Mr G  and that the 
monthly amount  theyve  asked for isnt entirely unreasonable. And the system records Ive 
Ref: DRN13571693seen suggest  they did get in touch with Mr G  even if he doesnt recall  this. But I think  they 
shouldve given more  consideration  to the impact  the debts continue to have on his health   
as the guidelines suggest  and written them off.
putting things right
Link Financial should write-off Mr Gs outstanding  debts with them, making  the balance zero 
and ask for no further payments.
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint  against  Link Financial Outsourcing Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1357169