K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him an interest rate hedging product (IRHP) 
and hasnt paid enough compensation.
Background
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision dated 
4 March 2020, a copy  of which is attached and forms  part of my final decision.
Mr T ran a sole-trader business. In December  2007 he entered into a ten-year IRHP 
agreement with Lloyds.  The bank later reviewed the sale of the IRHP under its agreement 
with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Eventually Lloyds offered to put Mr T in the 
position he would have been in if there  had been no hedging product. In 2014 Mr T accepted 
the redress, plus compensatory interest to reflect  lost opportunities. 
The subject of the current complaint is Mr Ts claim for consequential losses.  Mr T claims the 
following losses: a number of penalties, fines,  fees and costs relating to HMRC payments; 
the sale of stock and assets at undervalue; and redundancy payments. Mr T is also claiming 
for legal,  accountancy  and insolvency  practitioners fees.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my view was that the bank shouldnt  be 
required to compensate Mr T any further  for the losses claimed.
I asked the parties  if they wanted  to send me anything in response to my findings.
Mr T said he disagreed with my provisional  decision but had nothing  further  to add. Lloyds  
said it had nothing to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has submitted any new evidence or arguments, I dont depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr T any further  redress for 
consequential losses.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN14336082COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him an interest rate hedging product  (IRHP) and hasnt 
paid enough compensation.
Background
Mr T ran a sole-trader business. In December 2007 he entered into a ten-year IRHP agreement with 
Lloyds. It was an interest rate collar with a cap rate of 6.25% and a floor rate of 5.00%, covering 
£681,000 of Mr Ts borrowing. That meant Mr Ts interest costs wouldnt rise above 6.25% or fall 
below 5.00%  for the duration of the agreement. 
Lloyds later reviewed the sale of the collar under its agreement with the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Eventually  the bank  offered to put Mr T in the position he would  have been if there had been 
no hedging product. In 2014  Mr T accepted £155,495.73 redress  plus £45,435.39 net compensatory  
interest. In the FCA review  process,  the compensatory interest payment was to reflect lost 
opportunities, and was intended to represent a straightforward alternative to putting together 
consequential loss claims. However, the settlement  also left Mr T with the right to submit a further 
claim for consequential losses.
Mr T then made his claim for consequential losses. After reviewing the information submitted  by Mr 
Ts representatives,  Lloyds  said that no further redress was payable. Unhappy with the banks 
response, Mr T referred his complaint to us.
Mr T is claiming for consequential losses that he says were caused by having  to make the IRHP 
payments. He says the burden of the payments caused his business  to suffer financial hardship, with 
three main consequences. First, he was unable  to make required payments  to HMRC,  which  led to a 
number of penalties  and fines,  plus fees and costs when  HMRC issued petitions for bankruptcy. 
Secondly, he had to sell stock and assets at undervalue, because  of the urgency of the situation. And 
thirdly, he had to reduce staff numbers and therefore had to make redundancy payments.
In addition Mr T is claiming for legal, accountancy  and insolvency  practitioners fees associated with 
the events described above and with pursuing  the complaint through  the IRHP review.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt  recommend that the bank should pay any 
further redress. Generally,  she hadnt  seen  sufficient evidence to show that Mr Ts business  difficulties 
were caused  by the IRHP payments. She didnt think the bank  should be required to compensate Mr 
T for any of the losses claimed.  
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators conclusions  and asked  for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. Mr Ts representative made the following points, in summary:
There  was a significant increase in business losses after entering the IRHP. An accompanying 
letter from Mr Ts accountant shows that losses in the years ending 31 March 2007 and 2008 
were both under  £30,000  but rose to over £110,000 in 2009.
Without the IRHP, Mr T would  have  had additional cash.  That could have meant that payments 
to HMRC  would  have  been met in a timely manner, avoiding  the penalties and additional 
interest charges.
The additional  cash  could  have meant Mr T could  have reinvested in the business.  There 
wouldnt have been a need  for Mr T to downsize.
Ref: DRN14336083It was only through the solicitors assistance  in the review process  that Mr T was offered the level 
of redress that he eventually received. Without their assistance,  the redress would  have been 
only in the hundreds  of pounds.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done that, Im sorry to tell Mr T that Ive come  to the same 
conclusions as the investigator,  and for largely the same reasons.  Ill explain why.
Consequential losses
Because the matter of the mis-sale has already been resolved between  the parties, the starting point 
of my decision is that Mr T shouldnt have had the IRHP.  I wont be re-opening  that issue. Mr Ts 
complaint is now about consequential losses.
I need to look at whether the banks failures actually  caused these consequential  losses.  And if they 
did, Id also need to ask whether its fair to hold the bank responsible for the losses. To do this, Id 
need to ask whether the bank could reasonably  foresee that its failures would result in losses like 
these. In other words,  Id need to be satisfied the losses werent too remote  from the banks failings.
In making these assessments, I need to compare what actually happened with whats likely  to have 
happened if Mr T hadnt  entered  the IRHP agreement.
Business losses in 2009
Ive looked carefully at the figures submitted by Mr Ts accountant. I can see there was a steep rise in 
losses during  the year ending 31 March 2009  when compared with the previous year. The losses 
increased by about £84,500. But the IRHP payments didnt start until October  2008. During the year 
ending 31 March 2009, the total paid on the IRHP  was only £7,526.84, which can only account for 
under 10% of the increase  in losses. For this reason,  Im not persuaded  that the IRHP caused the 
substantial rise in Mr Ts business losses. 
HMRC charges
The investigator pointed out that the amounts due to HMRC had built up over a long period of time. 
She said Mr T hadnt shown how paying the IRHP meant that Mr T couldnt  make the payments due 
to HMRC. I note that Mr T sent us a copy of another letter  from his accountant which  refers to a 
meeting with HMRC in January 2008 to negotiate suspension of bankruptcy proceedings. At that time,  
the IRHP hadnt cost Mr T anything. 
Mr T also sent us documents which show that in November 2009, HMRC was petitioning regarding unpaid 
amounts totalling over £158,000.  By that time, Mr T had paid less than £28,000 in IRHP payments.
The evidence  shows that HMRC was pursuing Mr T for substantial sums of unpaid tax before the 
IRHP payments could have affected his business. Its therefore clear that Mr T was having  difficulties 
with tax payments  for reasons unconnected with the IRHP, and the tax debts were larger than the 
cumulative IRHP payments. So I dont conclude  that the IRHP payments caused the Mr Ts penalties  
and fines regarding his unpaid tax.
Redundancy payments
The investigator said it was evident that Mr Ts business was struggling and he took the decision to 
move to smaller  premises. He had to make staff redundant. But she said Mr T hadnt shown how 
these events were caused by the IRHP payments.  Mr Ts representative has now submitted the 
figures for annual  losses, as discussed above.
Ref: DRN14336084Theres no doubt that Mr T would  have had more cash  available for his business  if he hadnt made  the 
IRHP payments. But Mr Ts business faced other  challenges unconnected  with the IRHP, as shown  
both by his difficulties making HMRC  payments  and by the figures for his business  losses in the years 
before the IRHP payments  started. Taking into account all the arguments and evidence available,  I 
cant fairly and reasonably  conclude that Mr T would have been able to avoid the redundancies  in the 
absence of the IRHP payments.
I agree with the investigator that Mr T hasnt shown  that the IRHP payments caused him to downsize 
his business and to make staff redundant. 
Sale of stock and assets
When Mr T downsized his business, he had to sell stock and assets. The investigator said she could  
see there was some  urgency in dealing with the sales and Mr T said he was unable to get full value. 
But she said Mr T hadnt shown  how these events  were  caused  by the IRHP payments. 
For the same reasons that Ive given above, I cant fairly  and reasonably  conclude that Mr T would  
have been able to avoid the sale of stock and assets in the absence of the IRHP payments. 
I agree with the investigator that Mr T hasnt shown  that the IRHP payments caused losses from the 
sale of stock and assets.
Professional fees
Ive already said its clear  that Mr T was having  difficulties with tax payments for reasons  unconnected 
with the IRHP,  and the tax debts were larger than the cumulative IRHP payments. It follows  that I 
cant fairly or reasonably hold the bank responsible for any fees (including professional fees) paid by 
Mr T as a result of HMRCs  petition for bankruptcy.
As regards  Mr Ts complaint to Lloyds and to this service,  he was of course  entitled to seek  professional  
help, but the question I must  answer is whether the bank  should be liable to pay the costs.
In my view,  Mr T could have  pursued his complaint in the FCA review without legal and professional  
help. The review was set up with processes agreed by the regulator  and it was overseen by an 
independent reviewer. I appreciate that the bank  made a much higher basic redress offer after Mr T 
objected to the provisional  offer and his representative made submissions. But that doesnt mean  that 
the bank should be held responsible for the fee charged by the representative. Mr T was at the time 
entitled to refer the complaint here, free of charge, if he wasnt satisfied with the review outcome.
The ombudsman offers  a free and informal service to resolve disputes. We dont usually require a 
bank to pay a customers costs for professional help in bringing their complaint  here.
Im satisfied Mr T could  have complained  both to the bank and to this service without legal and 
professional assistance. I therefore dont  think the banks actions caused him to pay for legal and 
professional help with his complaint, so I cant fairly  or reasonably hold the bank liable to reimburse Mr T.
Other consequential losses
Ive also looked carefully at the other claimed  losses that the investigator covered  in her view:  Mr Ts 
bank charges and management time, and personal  impact. 
I agree with the investigator that Lloyds  doesnt need to pay any further redress for bank charges or 
management time, for the same reasons she gave.  
I also agree that the bank  shouldnt be required to pay redress for personal  impact. I accept  that Mr Ts 
financial difficulties and the downsizing  of his business  would have been a stressful  experience, but Im 
not persuaded  that the IRHP caused these problems.
Ref: DRN14336085My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded not to require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr T any further 
redress for consequential losses.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1433608