K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about advice from Heritage Financial Solutions Ltd (Heritage) to transfer 
his four existing personal pension plans to his self-invested personal  pension (SIPP).
background
In June 2014, a SIPP  was set up to receive  pension contributions from Mr Ps employer.  In 
July 2014 Heritage issued  a recommendation report,  advising Mr P to switch his existing 
pensions to the SIPP. That didnt happen  and a further recommendation report was issued 
on 30 April 2015.
Mr Ps existing  personal pensions were  worth, in total, £152,121.39. Their  risk rating was 5 
out of 10 (1 being the least  risk and 10 being the highest risk).  Mr Ps attitude to investment 
risk was recorded as 6 out of 10.
Heritage recommended  switching all of the plans to the SIPP.  The rationale was:
to allow  greater investment opportunities;
to bring the funds  in line with Mr Ps attitude to risk;
to provide greater  drawdown flexibility.
A comparison between  the existing and proposed  plans, at age 65 and using assumed 
growth rates, was included in the recommendation report. Using  the middle assumed growth 
rate, the existing  plans were predicted  to be worth £186,570 at retirement and the SIPP  to 
be £200,000.  An illustration issued on the same day by the SIPP provider projected pension 
benefits of £173,000 at retirement. 
About fees the report showed  initial advice and implementation costs  of £1,521.21 based  on 
the transfer value set out in the report and an annual ongoing advice fee of 0.50%. The 
report said that the initial fee could  be paid from the transfer values  or by cheque. The 
annual ongoing  charge  would be taken from the funds.
There was a section  in the report headed,  Loss of With Profits  Smoothing, which said that 
Mr P was, happy to forgo this protection and smoothing effect in pursuit  of transparent  risk 
adjusted long term capital  growth.
Mr P signed  to say he accepted Heritages advice.  
Theres a note to say that the adviser  had a discussion with Mr P on 8 July 2015  about one 
of the plans having an enhanced tax free allowance of 34% compared  to 25% after transfer. 
Theres a letter dated 22 July 2015 confirming that Mr P still wanted  to proceed. 
On 24 June 2016 Mr P emailed the adviser saying he was looking to make  a further
contribution to his pension.  In reply the adviser said the relevant information  would be sent, 
adding, if you are around feel free to call in for a coffee and a chat up.
On 16 January 2017, Heritage emailed  Mr P asking for available  dates for a review.
A further  recommendation was issued  to Mr P, on 14 February 2017, advising him to invest  
his pension benefits in the Heritage  Model Portfolio Service. This would  have an ongoing 
charge of 0.77% compared to the existing portfolio with 1.13% charge.
Ref: DRN11128712Mr P later became concerned about the advice  hed been given and complained  to Heritage 
in February 2018.  In particular Mr P said that one of his existing pension  plans  offered  an 
enhanced tax free cash lump sum which was lost on transfer; hed been invested in a 
relatively well performing with-profits fund and the adviser hadnt discussed with him the loss 
of smoothing;  hed agreed only to pay an ongoing  charge, not an initial  fee for the transfers 
which would come out of his funds; and he hadnt received the ongoing  service  hed been 
paying for.
Heritage didnt uphold his complaint. Mr P didnt agree with Heritages findings and referred 
his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked  into what had happened. He upheld  the 
complaint. He didnt  think the advice to transfer  was suitable. In summary his findings were:
At the time Mr P was 50 and it was nearly five years before  he could access  his
pension benefits  and 15 years before his intended  retirement age. There  was no 
benefit in arranging the pension switches for the purposes of achieving  greater 
drawdown flexibility. That was a decision to be taken closer to when  Mr P actually 
wanted to take his pension benefits.  
The primary reason to switch appeared to be based on how best to invest Mr Ps 
pension funds. And have the additional  benefit  of consolidating the plans into a single 
arrangement.
One of the policies  had an enhanced  tax free cash  allowance  which meant  34% of 
the value could be taken tax free. After  transfer that reduced  to 25%. Paying more 
tax than necessary  should generally be avoided. The suitability report didnt mention 
the higher tax free cash. Nor did it recommend  leaving the policy with the existing 
provider. According  to Mr P the adviser had said it would be best to switch. The 
existing provider offered a wide range of funds. Having an additional pension  plan 
wouldnt have been that onerous administratively. The net benefit  over the longer 
term was modest.  But the new plan would  have to outperform the existing plan just to 
provide the same benefits. Mr P should  have been advised  to retain that plan. 
For the other three plans, the suitability report overstated  the likely  returns  the SIPP 
costs and the discretionary fund management  charges were taken into account but 
not the annual management  charges  for the underlying investments. The illustration 
was a more accurate  reflection of the charges and showed  a lower projected  value  
for the SIPP than for the existing plans. Mr P wasnt fully informed and it seemed  he 
wasnt going to be better  off than if hed have left his existing plans in place. If 
necessary fund switches could have been  effected  the existing providers had 
extensive funds.  Mr P should have been  advised  to retain his existing pension plans. 
The recommendation report did explicitly detail the initial  charge and was signed by 
Mr P. 
About  ongoing  advice,  the adviser had suggested a chat in June 2016  in response 
to Mr Ps email about making a further  contribution. That was a little informal  but 
Heritage had requested a review meeting in January 2017. Although that was over a 
year after the transfers (in July 2015) there wasnt a total absence  of ongoing advice.
The recommendation report recorded  that the loss of with-profits smoothing was 
discussed although Mr P didnt agree it had been. But the loss of the with-profits  
investments wasn't in itself sufficient to uphold  the complaint. Often with-profits  
investors want to take a cautious investment approach whereas Mr P was willing  to 
take a little more  risk. 
Heritage didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  It said it wanted to get some information  
from the SIPP provider  to enable it to carry out its own assessment. The adjudicator offered 
Ref: DRN11128713to obtain the details Heritage needed. The information from the SIPP  provider (consisting of 
the half yearly statements  sent to Mr P when Heritage was the servicing  agent) was 
forwarded to Heritage.  The statements showed  the values for the entire SIPP  portfolio so, at 
Heritages request, the adjudicator asked  the SIPP provider if it could provide values, as at 
the date Heritages servicing rights ceased (21 March  2017),  for the four personal pension  
transfers in June/July 2015.  The SIPP provider couldnt pro rata the calculation. But it did 
supply a list of transactions showing the units purchased after the transfers in and valuations  
at various dates. 
In the end Heritage didnt make an offer at that stage. It said it thought  it would be able to 
demonstrate that three of the four transfers  were suitable. 
The adjudicator maintained that the transfers werent suitable. He acknowledged  the redress 
hed set out would be complex to calculate. He suggested an alternative  simpler, albeit, less 
accurate method based on proportioned values: The last of the four transfers  in was on 15 
July 2015. There  were no further  payments  into the plan until after Heritage was no longer 
the servicing agent for the plan (21 March  2017).  As at 15 July 2015 a total of £192,758.31 
had been paid into the plan. Of that the four transfers in accounted for, in total,  £148,110.88 
(0.768376 of the total payments in). The value of the total investments as at 21 March 2017 
was £189,289.34.  Simply proportioning that by 0.768376 gave a net value of £145,445.41. 
The adjudicator suggested that figure  could be used  as the actual value (as at 21 March 
2017) for the purposes of the redress calculation. If Heritage was prepared to offer to pay 
redress on that basis wed ask Mr P if hed be willing to agree to that. If not, the complaint 
would be referred  to an ombudsman.
Heritage said it wasnt  in a position to pay the redress. And it didnt think  Mr P had suffered 
any loss anyway. Heritage accepted that a mistake had been made in the qualitative 
analysis and therefore reflective in the suitability letter  and did not reflect a level playing 
field. But the overriding  desire was to consolidate Mr P's pensions  and have an investment 
strategy managed  within his risk profile,  which objectives  had been  met. Even with a 
negative fund comparison Mr P would still have transferred. 
Heritage said the complaint wouldnt have been  raised if the funds had performed well over 
the relevant period. It described Mr P as somewhat disengaged with the review  process  and 
the performance data so, when it was finally discussed, things came as somewhat of a 
shock to him. Poor performance wouldnt normally be grounds for complaint. Mr Ps pension  
fund was invested in regulated and liquid funds  and he was free to move switch  to other 
funds with no penalties  or restrictions. 
We told Mr P that Heritage had said it couldnt redress him and so it was likely that the 
matter would be referred to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). But 
FSCS hadnt  confirmed  it was accepting claims against Heritage so the complaint would be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
The adjudicator shared  with Mr P how redress could be calculated if the provider was unable  
to provide a value for the four pension switches into the plan as at 21 March  2017 and how a 
net value of £145,445.41  might be used. The adjudicator later pointed out that Heritage 
would still need  to work out the value of Mr Ps four personal pensions had they remained 
with the existing providers. Again, there might be difficulties with that. We could use a 
Ref: DRN11128714benchmark to see if any loss had been suffered. The adjudicator  explained how that would 
work. 
Heritage maintained that Mr P hadnt  suffered any financial loss. But it did make an offer to 
him. Mr P didnt accept  it so the matter  has been referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
Heritage initially  argued  that we couldnt consider  the complaint as it was made too late  
more than six months after Heritage had sent its final response to Mr P. One of my 
ombudsman colleagues  considered that and concluded that the complaint hadnt been made 
too late. 
Were required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our investigation of a complaint. 
Ive done that. I confirm  I agree with the views expressed by my colleague in his decision 
issued on 3 July 2019. In short, neither version of Heritages letter dated 19 March 2018 met 
the definition of a final response. So the six month  time period didnt start to run and Mr Ps 
complaint hadnt  been made  too late. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and with the reasons he gave that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.  
Heritage accepts that the analysis set out in its suitability letter  wasnt  entirely  accurate.  I 
take what Heritage  says about the playing  field not being level as going some  way to 
acknowledging that Mr P wasnt  in a position  to make properly informed decision. 
I dont think the advice to switch Mr Ps four existing pension plans to his SIPP was suitable. 
Not only did it result in the loss of enhanced tax free cash on one of the plans but, taking into 
account all the charges,  there wasnt a reasonable prospect that Mr P would better off when 
he reached retirement. The providers all offered extensive fund choices so any greater 
investment needs  could  be met and in line with Mr Ps attitude to risk. And, any drawdown 
requirements would be better addressed when Mr P was much closer  to accessing his 
pension benefits.  
I dont agree that Mr P would have decided  to go ahead with the transfers anyway. He may 
have been looking  at consolidating his pensions. But I dont think hed have done that at the 
expense of being worse off when he retired. 
Mr Ps complaint may have been prompted  by poor investment performance. Good 
investment returns may mask unsuitable advice. Where suitable advice has been given an 
adviser wont generally be liable for poor performance.  But where  unsuitable advice has 
been given the adviser  will be responsible for putting the consumer back in the position hed 
have been in, had suitable  advice been given.  Which might include a comparison of how his 
investments have performed against  those  that he transferred out of. 
As has since been discovered,  there  may be some issues with the redress  originally  
suggested by the adjudicator. The SIPP provider cant supply updated transfer  values (as at 
21 March 2017  when Heritage ceased  to be responsible for Mr Ps SIPP) just for the four 
transferred in amounts. So its not going to be possible to work  out what  the growth  (or loss) 
in respect of those funds  was. I think the approach the adjudicator suggested  to pro rata 
Ref: DRN11128715the total SIPP value as at that date  is a sensible and pragmatic solution. Im going to 
suggest that figure - £145,445.41 - is used. 
And, as there may be a problem getting notional values from the previous providers as to 
what Mr Ps personal pensions would have been worth as at the same date if he hadnt 
transferred, Ive included,  as suggested by the adjudicator, an option to use notional  values 
calculated by reference to a benchmark. If any of Mr Ps previous providers are unable to 
calculate a notional value then a fair value can be obtained using the index indicated below.
If the total notional  value  for the four pension plans is more than £145,445.41  then Mr P has 
suffered a financial loss in respect of the difference. That loss will need to be brought  up to 
date using the index indicated. If the total notional  value  is Iess than £145,445.41, Mr P 
hasnt suffered any financial loss, aside from that resulting from the loss of the enhanced tax 
free cash. The payment for non financial loss (distress and inconvenience) will also be due. 
To put Mr P as close as possible in the position  hed be in now if Heritage had given him 
suitable advice  Heritage  must: 
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment  with how his funds  would have 
performed if theyd remained with his previous providers. But, if a notional value cant  
readily be obtained from a previous provider, the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income 
Total Return Index  can be used. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, 
theres a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is due. 
Pay any interest  set out below.
If there  is a loss, it should  be paid into Mr Ps pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  It shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If it cant be paid into Mr Ps pension plan it should be paid direct  to him. But had it 
been possible to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable income. So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using Mr P's 
actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I think  Mr P is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected  retirement age so the reduction will 
equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P would have been able to take a 
tax free lump sum, the reduction  should  be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Any loss at the end date should be brought up to date. Ive recommended  an index 
as identifying the actual returns of his pension under his new adviser may be difficult  
to determine.
Pay Mr P £250 for the unsuitable  advice  to switch his pensions  and lose benefits 
such as enhanced tax free cash.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Heritage considers it is required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from that interest,  it must tell Mr P 
how much  it has taken  off and given him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end 
date)to be brought  
up to date of 
Ref: DRN11128716settlement
the SIPP
(benefits
resulting
from the 
pension
switches) *transferredMr Ps 
existing pension providers 
or 
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexdate of 
transferdate of
change of
servicing
agencyFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index
* As weve  been  unable to obtain an actual value from the SIPP provider a proportional 
method can be used which results in a net value  of £145,445.41.
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other 
distribution out of the investment should  be deducted from the fair value at the point  it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from that point on. If there is 
a large number of regular  payments, to keep calculations simpler. Ill accept if Heritage totals 
all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
With suitable advice  Mr P wouldve retained his existing  personal pension plans.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income Total Return Index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
The loss calculation should be capped at the date when  Heritage  was no longer the 
servicing agent for the SIPP.  Any loss at the end date should be brought  up to date 
to the date of settlement, using the recommended index. 
redress for loss of enhanced tax-free cash
Ref: DRN11128717To compensate Mr P for the loss of his right to enhanced  tax-free cash. Heritage should 
establish whether  he had a right to enhanced tax-free cash under any of the four existing 
plans. If he did, Heritage should  pay him a sum equivalent to 20% of the excess  over the
standard 25% entitlement,  on the basis that this is likely to be his additional tax liability  
arising from the advice.  This should be based  on the current notional  value confirmed by the 
provider in question  or using  the benchmark index.  The sum should  be paid direct to Mr P 
with no deduction  for tax rather  than into to his pension. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Heritage Financial  Solutions  Ltd must redress  Mr P as Ive set out 
above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1112871