K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Cash On Go Limited (trading as Peachy.co.uk) gave him a loan that he 
couldnt afford to repay. He asks that it refunds interest and charges and removes 
information about the loan from his credit file.
background
Mr H took out a loan with Peachy in February 2012. He says he couldnt  afford  the loan and 
his credit report would have shown other short term loans, late payments and defaults. 
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld.  He said the checks 
made by Peachy were proportionate  given the amount  of the loan (£100) and Mr Hs stated 
income (£1,232). If Mr H was in a debt management  plan before he took out the loan it was 
unlikely Peachy would have been aware of it. However, Peachy shouldnt have allowed Mr H 
to defer  repayment of the loan on five occasions  as the lending code issued by a trade  body 
at that time limited extensions to three occasions.
The adjudicator said that Peachy should refund interest and charges paid from 27 March to 
5 April 2012, with interest  at 8%, and remove adverse information  about the loan from Mr Hs 
credit file. Peachy  didnt  agree.  It said it wasnt  a member of the trade  body referred to by the 
adjudicator. It said the lending  code  issued by its trade body limited extensions  to three 
occasions from July 2012. This was after Mr H had agreed a repayment plan for the loan 
and after the last of the rollovers. 
After considering the available evidence and arguments, I didnt agree with the adjudicators  
recommendation that the complaint should be upheld and that Peachy should  refund interest  
and charges. I sent a provisional  decision to the parties to explain why. While Mr H didnt 
agree with my provisional decision, he said he had no further  comments. He said he didnt 
want to incur the cost of obtaining and providing  bank statements.  Peachy said it had no 
further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Peachy offered Mr H a £100 loan in February  2012.  When he applied for the loan Mr H told 
Peachy his monthly income was £1,232  and his monthly outgoings were £550. I think, given 
the amount of the loan and Mr Hs stated  income, these checks  were  proportionate.
Mr H says he was in financial  difficulties  and Peachy would have known this if it made proper 
checks. Mr H provided a copy of his credit report.  Unfortunately, due to the time that has 
passed, this has limited information about his circumstances in 2012. Mr H cant  provide 
bank statements for early 2012.  His bank statements for 2011 show hed taken  out loans 
with other  short term lenders. But even if Peachy knew  about this it doesnt  mean  that it 
couldnt lend to him. While Mr H provided  evidence of his debt management plan,  its not 
clear that this was entered  into before he took out the loan with Peachy or that Peachy would 
have known about it if it did a credit  check. 
Ref: DRN15128562Based on the available evidence, I cant reasonably  say that Peachy should  have been 
alerted to a possible problem,  such as Mr Hs financial difficulties, or the need for more 
checks. I think Peachy  was entitled to rely on the information Mr H provided when he applied  
for the loan. This suggested the loan was affordable. 
Mr H extended (or rolled over) the loan five times. In late April 2012 he told Peachy he was 
in financial difficulties and it offered  a repayment plan. The loan was repaid in October 2012. 
Peachy was a member  of a trade body. But this trade body didnt issue  lending  rules which 
restricted the number  of rollovers to three occasions  until after the last rollover of Mr Hs 
loan. Mr Hs loan had a term of 10 days and each extension was for another 10 days.  When 
Peachy agreed  the fifth rollover in early  April the loan had been  outstanding for about 
six weeks. If he was paid monthly, Mr H would have had one or possibly two paydays in this 
period. I think,  especially  given  the small size of the loan, the extensions wouldnt in 
themselves have alerted Peachy to a possible problem. 
Overall, I think the checks made  by Peachy before  it offered the loans were proportionate. I 
dont think it needed  to do more before offering the loan or the extensions. And, from what 
Ive seen, it seems that Peachy responded positively and sympathetically when it was told 
about Mr Hs financial difficulties. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1512856