K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont  refund disputed  transactions that
debited her current account.
background
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019 to explain why I thought Miss Ms 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider  anything  else anyone  wanted to give 
me. This is an extract from that provisional  decision:
Miss M says that 76 fraudulent  transactions totalling £1,041 were made from her HSBC
current account between  27 June 2018 and 4 September 2018. All of the transactions  
were made to gambling websites.
In September  2018, Miss M went to a cashpoint to withdraw her benefits but was unable 
to as she had insufficient funds in her account. It was at this point  that Miss M realised 
thered been a number of transactions, starting in June 2018, on her account  that she 
didnt recognise.  Miss M then called HSBC to report fraud on her account and cancel her 
card.
Miss M said she doesnt recognise any of the transactions and she didnt make  them  
herself. She said she doesnt  use gambling  websites and she doesnt know  anyone who 
does. Shes  also said she doesnt know how someone has got hold of her card details.
Miss M is concerned because the transactions have  taken  her into an unarranged 
overdraft that is now attracting interest  that she cannot afford  to repay. Miss M says HSBC  
shouldnt have allowed  her to go into an unarranged overdraft.
HSBC said it wont refund the transactions made  from Miss Ms account. It said the 
transactions on the account were spread out over a number of months and for small 
amounts. And it doesnt feel this fits the pattern of a fraudster - who wouldve wanted to 
drain the account as quickly as possible to make sure they obtained  all of the funds 
available. HSBC also said Miss M was in possession  of the card and it had been used for 
genuine transactions before some  of the disputed transactions,  and after. And so it couldnt 
see how a fraudster wouldve got access to her card on multiple occasions and then been 
able to replace  it without  her noticing. 
Miss M didnt agree with what HSBC said and so she brought  the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked  into the complaint and didnt think  the complaint should  be upheld.  
In summary,  she felt unable to conclude that the transactions had been made fraudulently  
and she was persuaded they were most likely made  and authorised  by Miss M.
Miss M asked for the investigators assessment to be reviewed  by an ombudsman,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to look into.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as our investigator  previously  set out - and for much the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN13373972But I also think  HSBC need to do more to help Miss M repay  the debt she is now liable 
for.
authorisation
Generally, HSBC can hold Miss M liable for the disputed transactions  if the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that she made them herself.
Im satisfied from HSBCs  technical evidence that Miss Ms genuine card and security
details were used  to make the transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable  HSBC to hold Miss M liable. So I also need to think  
about whether  the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss M consented to 
the transactions being made.
From what  Ive seen, I think its reasonable for HSBC to conclude that Miss M authorised  
the transactions herself. This is because:
The disputed transactions were placed online using Miss Ms genuine  card details. 
Miss M has told us she keeps her card with her, she lives on her own with her children 
and no-one has access to her card. When Miss M reports  the fraud  to HSBC,  it is still in 
her possession.  And I can see from Miss Ms account statements that she is using the 
card regularly  between  the disputed transactions  taking place. And so there isnt a 
convincing explanation as to how a fraudster couldve got hold of Miss Ms card details, 
without her realising, in order to make the transactions. And Im not persuaded that a 
fraudster who has access to Miss Ms card details would  bother to return the card to 
Miss M. There would  be no benefit to the fraudster in doing  so and it would place the 
fraudster at significant risk of getting  caught.
The disputed transactions started in June 2018  and continued  until September 2018  - 
when Miss M reported them to HSBC. During  this period, Miss M logged into her online 
banking, presumably to check her account  balance, a total of 24 times. So I think 
Miss M wouldve been aware  of the transactions prior to September  2018, and had 
they not been made by her, I think  she wouldve complained  about  them  sooner. 
Especially given  that some of the transactions mean that her account balance  is 
brought to 0 in August 2018.  And I think Miss M wouldve noticed had a fraudster 
drained her account of funds.
Miss M maintains a relatively low balance on her current account; it often has no funds 
available at all. Shes told us she relies heavily on her benefit payments to pay for her 
everyday living expenses. And having looked  over the activity on Miss Ms current 
account I can see she was using the account  regularly  her benefit payments are paid 
directly into this account. So, I think that had over £1,000  gone  missing over a short  
timescale, Miss M wouldve noticed  this relatively quickly.  And I think she wouldve 
contacted HSBC as soon as possible because she relies  on this money for her everyday 
living expenses.
Ref: DRN13373973I also cant ignore that the transactions tended to debit Miss Ms account  after her 
benefit payments  had been paid into the account. This suggests to me that whoever
was using the card was aware of credits being made  in to Miss Ms account. And Im not 
persuaded that a fraudster would have known  when Miss M received her benefit 
payments in order to make the transactions.
There are also two credits to Miss Ms current account from the websites in question - 
amounting to £210. Miss M hasnt disputed these payments. And it seems likely to me 
that these  credits are winnings from the gambling activity that the disputed  transactions  
have been used to pay for. There is no plausible explanation as to why a fraudster 
would obtain Miss Ms card details to pay for gambling/gaming online only to have the 
winnings paid into Miss Ms current account. There would be no benefit  to a fraudster in 
doing so. And I cant ignore that Miss M logs into her on-line banking on the dates the 
credits are received.  And this suggests to me that Miss M was expecting them. Im 
satisfied she wouldve have seen  the increase in her outstanding balance. And then 
Miss M withdraws  the money at an ATM.
Ive taken into account what Miss M has said about not using online gambling websites 
or games. But Ive also noted that one of the email addresses she has provided  as a 
contact to this service  refers to gaming.  Whilst this isnt conclusive, it suggests to me 
that Miss M is interested in gaming.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Miss M authorised  the transactions  
herself. It follows that Im currently minded to say HSBC is entitled  to hold her liable for 
them.
Miss Ms unauthorised overdraft
Miss M didnt have enough money in her account to pay for the disputed transactions - 
they took her into an unarranged overdraft. Miss M is unhappy about  this. And shes told 
us she asked HSBC  to provide her with an arranged overdraft on three occasions in the 
past but HSBC  declined  to offer her this facility.  And so Miss M thinks  HSBC shouldnt  
have allowed her to go into an unarranged overdraft as it knew she wouldnt be able to 
afford to pay it back.
I understand why HSBC allowed Miss M to go into an unarranged  overdraft. The 
transactions Miss M is disputing are guaranteed  and so HSBC  has an obligation to debit 
them from her account.  And I think HSBC is entitled  to hold Miss M liable for the 
transactions as I think she made  them herself. She has to pay them back.  However,
HSBC also has an obligation  to treat customers who are struggling  financially fairly and 
sympathetically. And I think it could have  done  more here to help Miss M.
As Miss Ms overdraft is unarranged, it is attracting charges and a higher  rate of interest. The 
debt has increased  significantly since the transactions originally debited  the account.  And its 
clear to me that Miss M will struggle to repay  this debt whilst interest  and charges continue  to 
be added  at the rate they are. And so Im currently minded to ask HSBC to remove any 
interest and charges added to the original unarranged debt. This will crystallise the debt and 
allow Miss M to set up a payment plan so she can fulfil her obligations to HSBC.
Ref: DRN13373974my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to say HSBC  has told me that it agrees with my provisional decision and it is 
currently in the process  of getting in touch  with Miss M to arrange a repayment plan with her. 
Miss M didnt respond to my provisional decision with any further points. 
As no further  points  have  been put forward by either  HSBC or Miss M, Ive reached  the 
same conclusions I did in my provisional  decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I partially uphold Miss Ms complaint against HSBC UK Bank  Plc. I 
direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to do the following:
   remove any interest  and charges  added  to Miss Ms original unarranged overdraft debt.
   contact Miss M to arrange a payment plan so she can repay  this debt to HSBC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1337397