K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Lloyds Bank  PLC (when  it was trading as TSB) mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs J took out in 1994  when  she filled in an application 
which offered her the choice of taking out either one or two credit cards. Mrs J ticked to have 
two credit cards. Although  Lloyds  couldnt say how the PPI was sold,  Mrs J says she made 
her application  during  a meeting in one of the banks branches.  So I think  thats probably 
what happened and I've taken this into account  when thinking about  her complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mrs J disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
Briefly summarising her concerns, it looks like Mrs J mainly says that she didn't want  or need 
PPI but shed been told it was compulsory. Mrs J disputes that PPI was something  she 
wouldve voluntarily chosen to take out as she says she had other  ways  to pay her credit 
cards if she wasnt  able to work . 
Mrs J has also complained about  PPI being mis-sold  with another  credit card. But I can see 
nothing that suggests shes right when she says that she took out PPI with that credit  card.  
So in my decision Im just concentrating on the PPI she was sold alongside the credit  card 
application she made in July 1994.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
I dont know what was said about the PPI. But I think Lloyds made Mrs J aware that the PPI 
was optional and she chose to take it. I say this because the application form Mrs J 
completed made it clear  that it was up to Mrs J to say if she wanted PPI - and shes  ticked  to 
say she required it. There was also an option on the form to say that PPI wasnt  required  
and theres an N marked  here on the form Mrs J signed, confirming her wish to have the 
cover being  offered. 
Where Mrs J signed the form at the end it says: Sign it only if you want to be legally 
bound So I think its reasonable  to expect that Mrs J wouldve looked carefully over the 
completed application before signing to make sure it reflected her wishes. And what she 
says about the way she was sold the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold 
her complaint. 
On balance, I find that Mrs J wouldve known at the time that it was up to her to choose  if 
she wanted to protect  her repayments - and she signed the completed form confirming that 
she wanted to do this. 
Ref: DRN11043132As Lloyds  wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mrs J, in fairness to her it treated this as an 
advised sale  so, as if it had personally recommended PPI to her. I think  thats the fairest  
way to look at this complaint as it imposes an extra obligation on Lloyds  - giving Mrs Js 
complaint the best chance of success. So I've looked at it this way too. This means Lloyds 
not only shouldve  given Mrs J important policy information in a clear way. It also shouldve 
taken reasonable  steps to make sure the cover  it recommended was suitable for her. And if 
Lloyds didn't do those things, Ive thought  about  whether this makes any overall difference.   
Ive checked the policy  document that was in use when Mrs J took out this PPI. It looks to 
me as if the policy was suitable for Mrs J based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time.  
Mrs J was eligible for the PPI.
She had some sick pay entitlement through work  she mentioned shed have got at least  
6 months sick pay from her employer. And Mrs J also told us that she and her husband had 
savings. She said the amount varied  from time to time. But, using the information Mrs J has 
provided, it seems reasonable to say that although she told us she had less than 12 months 
worth of pay, she mightve had savings worth at least  3 months of her pay.
The policy wouldve paid more than her minimum credit card repayments  for up to 
12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work  benefits. As 
Mrs J mightve  also had some additional costs  if she was too unwell to go back to work,  or 
disabled, I think this couldve  been  a useful benefit at a difficult time.  
And the policy wouldve also protected Mrs Js credit card repayments  if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy. And if Mrs J had claimed successfully for 
12 months in a row, the policy would've  cleared her card balance.  
Although her husband was also working,  relying on someone else to help out in the event of 
money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can 
change unexpectedly. 
Overall, I think PPI was worthwhile for Mrs J. It gave her useful protection,  taking into 
account what shes told us about  her situation when she took out this PPI, and I find that the 
policy was suitable  for her.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mrs J made a claim.  But Mrs J chose to take out the policy when  she didnt 
have to  so she seems  to have wanted  this type of cover.  The cost was shown on her 
monthly statements  and Mrs J couldve queried  this or cancelled  the policy at any time if her 
circumstances changed and she no longer wanted to pay for it. 
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Mrs J. So, 
I dont think having  more information  about  the policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve  
made any difference to her decision to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN11043133Looked at overall, I think its unlikely that having better information wouldve put Mrs J off 
taking out the policy.  This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs J.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs J about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  everything that Mrs J has said, including her 
comments in response  to the adjudicators  view.  I appreciate that she didnt need to rely on 
the policy the first time she was made redundant. And that she chose not to claim on the 
policy the second time this happened   and still managed to make her credit  card monthly 
repayments until the balance was cleared. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold her 
complaint. The policy was intended  to provide  dependable  cover  in the event of unplanned 
and unforeseeable events. The fact that Mrs J never actually made a claim on the policy 
doesnt mean it was mis-sold.
I appreciate Mrs J feels strongly about  this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment. In my decision Ive dealt with all the main points raised that have 
an impact on the outcome  of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs J any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1104313