K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Miss K says Capital  One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ks case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss K thinks the policy was sold during  a postal application. Capital One says that Miss K 
applied for her card online and has provided a copy of its records which  show this. So Ive 
considered this an internet sale. 
Capital One shouldve made  Miss K aware  she had a choice in taking  out the PPI. From 
what I know about how Capital One sold PPI online,  Miss K wouldve been given a yes or 
no option. Capital  One has given me a document showing what Miss K selected  when she 
applied for her card and this shows she selected yes to agree to take out the PPI.
So I think Capital One made it clear  that Miss K didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this as it was so 
long ago.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss K so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss K got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. Miss K says she had some 
sick pay benefits from her employer but the policy wouldve paid out alongside  these 
benefits. It wouldve  also covered her repayments  if Miss K lost her job. And it doesnt  look 
like Miss K had any other means  such as savings - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss K. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss K because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss K about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell   
Miss K, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN10787122Ive thought carefully about everything Miss K has said  including the fact it wasnt 
mentioned she didnt know she had PPI and could have used it when she was made  
redundant. But this point  doesnt change my decision for the reasons Ive explained  above.   
But Miss K may be entitled to make  a retrospective claim. If shed like to do this, she should 
get in touch with Capital  One to see if she can start a claim.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss K.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Miss K any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1078712