K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that the company  she paid to supply and fit a kitchen in her home  has failed 
to do so. She bought the kitchen using her Nationwide Building Society credit card and debit 
card. She wants a full refund from Nationwide, plus compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience suffered. 
background
Ms H paid £14,137.26 to W to supply and fit a kitchen  in her home. The payments were 
made on 23 June 2016  and 22 August 2016  using her Nationwide credit  and debit cards. 
Work was scheduled to start on 23 September 2016, with a target of four days to complete.  
On 23 September  2016, Ms  H says that the kitchen fitters didnt turn up. She says work 
eventually started on 30 September  2016. But the fitters found  that many  of the materials 
couldnt be used  as they were damaged. There were  a number of other problems as well -
such as the oven housing being the incorrect size. They  were  unable to complete  the work 
and Ms H says she was left with an unusable kitchen. 
In October  2016, Ms H says that she received  many  deliveries for the goods needed to 
complete her kitchen.  
Ms H had regular communication with W who was unable to commit to any specific  date to 
complete the kitchen.  On 9 December 2016,  W agreed a new start date for fitting  the kitchen 
of 17 December 2016. 
On 17 December 2016, Ms H says that the fitters  damaged  the worktops by chipping  the 
edges. 
On 23 December 2016, Ms H emailed  W due to the ongoing problems with the installation  of 
the kitchen. 
Ws field-based installation manager responded on 19 January 2017 and booked  an 
appointment to inspect  the kitchen on 23 January 2017. Ms H says that he was very 
reassuring and stated  that he would personally ensure that the kitchen would be finished. He 
found a number of things  wrong. He said that he would  need two weeks  to collate the 
materials and then he would aim to have  the kitchen installed the following weekend. Ms H 
says that she was left with the expectation that the kitchen  would  be completed over the 
weekend of 11-12 February 2017. 
Ms H says that she didnt  hear from this manager  again. 
In around February  or March 2017, Ms H then requested  that Nationwide get involved with 
her complaint about the kitchen under s75 as she had paid with her credit  card and debit 
card. 
On 22 June 2017, Nationwide asked Ms H to get an independent  report on the kitchen. Ms H 
got this and sent it to Nationwide on 3 July 2017. The report clearly stated that work on the 
kitchen should  be started  from scratch and also that walls needed re-plastering. It suggested 
that the kitchen  then be re-fitted with new white goods. 
Ref: DRN12832482In Nationwides  final response letter dated  20 September 2017,  it said it wouldnt uphold  
Ms Hs complaint, explaining  that this was because W:
advised  that a refund would not be processed  because you have  had a fully functional 
kitchen and that the replacement parts are required for aesthetic purposes only. W proposes  
that they be given the opportunity to supply and install the required parts  at your earliest 
convenience.
Nationwide thought that this was reasonable of W, so wasnt  prepared  to do anything else. 
Ms H brought the complaint to us in March 2018. 
Nationwide wrote again on 23 May 2018  after it had reviewed the complaint. At this point, 
the kitchen had still not been completed. Nationwide held its position  that W was trying  to 
resolve the matter  and that it was happy for it to do so. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and, in the first instance, upheld the complaint on 
9 August 2018.  Nationwide didnt agree with this decision and argued that:
1.W had rejected a refund because it said that Ms H had a fully functional  kitchen.
2.It didnt think that there  was a breach of contract  with W fitting  the kitchen as it 
thought that the faults werent significant enough.  
3.It didnt think Ms H was entitled to a refund, replacement or repair because the 
products conformed  to the contract.
4.Ms Hs remedy  should be in damages  if there  was a breach of contract. This would 
be the cost of repairs or rectifying  the issues. 
5.W had always been willing to rectify  the issues and was a reputable company.
6.Ms H shouldve  allowed W the opportunity to rectify the issues.  
Following this response from Nationwide, our investigator changed his initial  finding. He 
wrote on 30 November 2018, stating that W should be given  the opportunity to complete the 
kitchen within three  months. He also stated that Ms H should be paid:
£1,200 for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered and will suffer as a result of 
the breach of contract  that occurred and the level of customer service she received 
from Nationwide when  she made her claim.
£200 compensation for every , or part there-of, after the three  months that the 
installation remains incomplete (as determined by a pre-agreed  independent 
assessor)
the cost of the independent report if this hasnt already been refunded.
Ms H wasnt  happy with this outcome. She suggested that the first decision be reinstated  
and she also suggested an alternative  solution  whereby W would be bound by the decision.  
Our investigator replied  that the Financial Ombudsman Service has no power over W so we 
couldnt bind it by our decision. 
Ms H requested that an ombudsman review the complaint, so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12832483I think that Ms Hs complaint should  be upheld. I will explain why. 
Ms Hs kitchen fitting was supposed to have been completed September 2016. It clearly 
wasnt. I have seen  many emails and been told of phone calls made  between  Ms H and W to 
try to resolve  matters.  But it appears that insufficient works were  done and Ms H was left 
chasing W for completion for a number  of months. I can see that Ms H was more than willing 
to accommodate  W and clearly was keen for the works to be done. 
I have considered whether Ms H was left with a functioning kitchen. I find that she wasnt.  I 
believe her when she says that her oven wasnt working and that she has had to spend 
money on takeaways. Ive seen  Ms Hs bank statements  showing  shes spent a lot of money 
on takeaways. I accept  that this wouldnt  have  been the case,  and to this degree,  if she had 
a functioning oven. 
I think that Ms H gave W plenty of time to resolve the issues and spent a lot of time and 
effort in contacting them to try to sort this out. I dont think  that she could  have done  
anymore. So, when  Nationwide suggested  that she allow  W to try to resolve the issues, Im 
not surprised that she preferred a refund. I completely  understand that she had lost faith in 
W by this point. 
Nationwide asked for an independent  report.  When Ms H provided this, I dont understand 
why it was then ignored. The report advised that, with regards to the kitchen, to start again  
from scratch, re-plaster and decorate all walls  to where kitchen has been  mis-fitted and 
damaged. I accept this report as being fair and accurate. Again, Im not surprised  that Ms H 
didnt want W to complete the works  if the standard of its previous work was as poor as the 
independent contractor had found.  
The report  also said that new white goods would be needed. Nationwide  say that this isnt 
because they were faulty, necessarily, but because it wouldve been  difficult to get a colour  
match due to the time that had passed.  Whether  the goods were  faulty  or not colour 
matched, the simple  fact is that they are required due to the delays with the works  to the 
kitchen. 
In response to Nationwides arguments,  I dont agree with them. In particular:
 
1.I dont agree that Ms H had a fully  functional kitchen. 
2.I think the faults were  significant enough  to constitute a breach of contract.
3.I dont think the products did conform.  The oven wasnt working. 
4.I think that there has been  a breach of contract. And the remedy  should  be a refund 
because repeatedly Ms H tried to have the issues rectified.
5.W was given plenty  of time to rectify  the issues before Ms H approached Nationwide.  
It didnt. Ms H approached Nationwide  around  five months after works first started on 
the kitchen. 
6.I think that Ms H allowed W more than enough time to rectify the issues.  
I think that Nationwides customer service has been  poor since it got the independent report 
in July 2017. I would have  expected it to have  done more to try to resolve the complaint 
rather than leave it to W - especially as Ms H had already been  waiting  for W to complete 
her kitchen for around  nine months by then. 
Ref: DRN12832484I dont agree with the second  view issued by our investigator,  with its recommendations for 
W to do the remedial  works, because  I believe  that it could lead to matters becoming even 
more protracted  and messy. 
Its also correct that my decision wont bind W, so for that reason also Im not happy making 
a decision asking it to do any further  work on the kitchen. 
I believe the best, and fairest, way forward is for Ms H to start again  with the fitting  of her 
kitchen. 
I also think that compensation  of £3,000 should be paid to her for the poor customer  service  
that she received  from Nationwide.
Finally, I believe a further £1,920 should  be paid to Ms H because of the money shes  had to 
spend on takeaways due to not have a functioning oven. Ive reached  this figure based on 
bank statements from Ms H showing  her documented takeaway expenditure over the period. 
Ive also taken into account that, even  with a working oven,  some  takeaways would still have 
been purchased  in the ordinary course  of life  just not on a weekly basis,  as necessitated 
due to the problems with the kitchen. 
So my calculation has taken the average cost of a weekly takeaway, and deducted one of 
these every month on the basis  this is likely to have been normal  and reasonable 
expenditure anyway.
Ive taken all of this into account, plus any interest  payable, in reaching  my figure of £1,920.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons given above. I therefore require that to resolve this 
complaint Nationwide Building Society  should:
refund  the money Ms H paid for the purchase  and installation  of the kitchen, 
amounting to £14,137.26;
pay 8% annual simple interest  on this amount  from the time it was paid until 
settlement;
refund  the costs  of the independent report (subject to a receipt);
pay for the costs  to have the faulty  kitchen removed at Ms Hs convenience  and for 
any damaged walls to be re-plastered/made  good;
pay £3,000  compensation within 30 days of acceptance of this decision, after which 
interest of 8% will accrue;
pay £1,920  for the money that Ms H has had to spend on takeaways, within 30 days 
of acceptance  of this decision, after which interest of 8% will accrue.
I also require Ms H to:
give a receipt for the independent report to Nationwide within 30 days of acceptance 
of this decision; and
obtain three quotes from reputable  contractors  for removing the faulty  kitchen and re-
plastering/making good any damaged  walls. She should use the contractor with the 
lowest quote to carry out the work.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Ref: DRN12832485Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1283248