K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained about a whole of life policy he took out in 1991 
administered by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited. 
He is unhappy with the fall in value  of the policy and with the fact that he 
has paid more  into it than will be paid out.
background
When Mr J took out the whole  of life policy in 1991  it was administered 
by a different  business  to Sun Life. Sun Life took over the administration 
of the policy in 2009. Mr J has said the policy was sold to him by an 
independent financial adviser in a pub.
The policy was set up initially with a sum assured of £17,860  for the life 
protection. It also contained an accidental death benefit of £8,930. This 
benefit expired when  Mr J would have turned age 65. The premiums  
were £10 per month and increased by £1 at the end of each of the first 
five policy years. The policy was reviewable and set up on a maximum  
basis. 
The policy was reviewed  in line with its terms  and conditions in 2001, 
2006, 2011 and 2018. In 2011  the policy failed its review but Mr J didnt  
respond to Sun Lifes letter  where it explained he had the option of 
increasing his premium to maintain  the sum assured.  Because of this 
Sun Life reverted to its default option of reducing the sum assured.
The policy continued to fail its reviews and the sum assured  continued to 
reduce and at the 2018 review Mr J raised his complaint  with Sun Life. 
He complained that the investment value  of the policy has reduced  
significantly. He said he was told he would make a return of 9-10% per 
annum on the policy and he feels  that when Sun Life took over the 
administration of the policy it started to lose investment value.
Its worth pointing out that Mr J raised a complaint about  the reviewable 
nature of the policy in 2011  and received a response from Sun Life in 
2011 and 2012.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the 
view it couldnt be upheld. He explained  the policy wasnt an investment  
policy but was rather a life protection  policy with an investment  element.  
Ref: DRN16641672So Mr J hadnt taken the policy out to provide an investment  return. He 
was also satisfied that the documentation provided to Mr J at the time of 
the sale clearly  set out what  type of policy this was and that it would be 
reviewed in the future and what this meant.
Mr J didnt agree with the assessment and remained  of the view that his 
other investments have outperformed this policy.  He also explained he 
was willing to increase  his premiums to increase his sum assured again 
but Sun Life was no longer  able to facilitate this for him.
The investigator considered Mr Js comments but wasnt  persuaded to 
change his initial outcome. So as no agreement  could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont think  the complaint can be upheld.
Its important to point out that Sun Life is the administrator  of the policy 
so I cant consider in this decision the sale of the policy,  whether it was 
suitable for Mr J or what  he was told by the person  who sold it to him at 
the time of the sale. 
Mr J thinks  this policy is an investment one and is unhappy with what 
sees as the loss in its value. I appreciate what  he says he was told by 
the adviser when he took out the policy and Mr Js recollections are 
indeed detailed. But, as mentioned  above I cant  look at what Mr J was 
told at the time of the sale.  In this case all I can consider is whether it 
would have been clear to Mr J in the paperwork he was given when he 
took out the policy what type of policy it was that he was taking. Having 
looked through the product particulars I think it clearly stated the policy 
was a life protection  one. It does mention there was an investment  
element but at no point does the paperwork state  the policy was 
primarily an investment  one. The document also clarifies what  the 
implications were of the policy being set up on a maximum protection 
basis which included notification that the level of cover set at outset was 
guaranteed only for ten years  and if this cover was needed for the rest of 
life contributions  to the policy would probably need  to be increased.
Ref: DRN16641673So given this, I think that Mr J was given  full and correct information 
about the policy in the paperwork he was provided with when he took it 
out. And while he says he was told by the adviser the policy would make 
an investment return  I think it was Mr Js responsibility to read the 
paperwork to ensure he was signing  up to something  he actually  thought 
he was. 
Also the paperwork provided from the point  of sale clearly  records  that 
Mr Js main priority  at that point  in time was to provide  protection over an 
indefinite period in the event  of his death. So again its very hard for me 
to conclude with any certainty that Mr J wasnt aware of the type of 
policy he was taking out at the time he did.
I know  Mr J feels the policy has lost value. This isnt actually  the case. 
Any whole of life policy  contains  an investment element  but as I have 
already said it is predominantly  a policy which provides life protection. 
But in order to provide the life protection there needs to be periodic 
reviews of the amount being paid into the policy and the investment 
element to ascertain whether enough is going into it to maintain that 
initial sum assured.  If enough isnt being  paid into the policy  then the 
policy holder has a choice to increase how much  they pay into the policy 
or accept a lower sum assured or death  benefit.  So it is not that the 
policy has lost value. Its just that the cost of the policy and keeping up 
with the sum assured  increases as policy holders  get older and the cost 
of providing life cover generally increases as one gets older and the 
longer the policy  stays in place. This is also why policy holders  can 
sometimes end up paying in more than is paid out upon making a claim.
Ultimately this is how whole  of life policies work  and I am satisfied that 
these details were made clear to Mr J in the paperwork he was provided 
at the time of taking out the policy.
I therefore dont  think that Sun Life has done anything wrong. From 
everything I have seen it seems to have administered the policy correctly 
and in line with its terms and conditions which is what  is it obliged to do.
Ref: DRN16641674my final decision
My final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  and I make  no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1664167