K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  has dealt with a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy for subsidence.
background
Mr Ms complaint relates to a problem which first began  many years ago. I wont detail here 
everything thats happened. Ill focus on the points which I think are key to understanding 
and resolving this complaint.
Mr M made a claim for subsidence damage  in 2012.  UKI appointed  a loss adjuster to deal 
with the claim. In summary, the loss adjuster accepted the claim,  carried  out some repairs to 
the drainage system and the building and the claim concluded in 2014.  I understand damage 
re-appeared shortly  after, some of which was repaired by UKI.
In April 2018, Mr M reported damage  to UKI which  he thought may be linked  to the earlier  
subsidence claim. Its loss adjuster visited, surveyed the drainage  system  and found  defects. 
The loss adjuster didnt agree the damage was linked to the previous subsidence and 
thought it should be considered as a new claim.
Mr M complained about the loss adjusters decision. UKI responded in October 2018. It 
accepted the service  had been poor and paid Mr M £650 compensation. It also agreed to 
appoint a new expert, G, to decide  whether the current problem should be seen as a 
continuation of the previous claim or something  new.
Mr M referred this complaint to our service.  The investigator thought UKIs offer and 
suggested way forward was reasonable. Mr M accepted the investigators view.
G inspected the damage,  carried out a drainage  survey,  and reported  its findings. UKI 
accepted the current  problem was a continuation of the earlier  subsidence claim. The 
drainage survey identified  defects.  UKI agreed  to carry out repairs  to some of them. It said 
the remainder were Mr Ms responsibility   and he should resolve  them first.
Mr M made a new complaint to UKI. He felt Gs report revealed the loss adjuster hadnt  dealt  
with the drain  repairs properly  during the original claim. He also didnt see why he was 
required to carry out the drain  repairs he was responsible for before UKI would carry out the 
repairs it was responsible for.
UKI responded in February 2019.  It accepted some of the defects  identified  in 2018 were  
present in 2012. It said they hadnt been  repaired in 2012 because  they werent causing 
subsidence then.  Somebody handling the claim had tried to inform  Mr M of that by phone  but 
hadnt followed it up. It accepted further  delays had been caused  since its previous 
complaint response  and offered Mr M a further £200 compensation.
Mr M referred this complaint to our service.  Our investigator considered the complaint and 
thought it should be upheld. She thought all the drainage defects identified  in 2012  should 
have been dealt with by UKI at the time. And, for any issues  UKI had identified  but didnt 
think needed dealing  with at the time,  it should  have made this clear to Mr M so he could 
have completed the work instead.  She considered it likely the problem wouldnt have 
returned in 2018 if UKI had done these things. For the distress to Mr M of dealing  with this 
claim after October 2018, she recommended UKI pay a total of £1,000  compensation, 
Ref: DRN15548322including the £200 it had already offered. She also suggested UKI should arrange to visit Mr 
M to discuss his concerns  about  the building repairs UKI had carried out in 2019.
UKI disagreed. It noted it had offered Mr M £650  compensation in the previous complaint. 
And it wasnt sure what aspects of the work Mr M was unhappy with.
Mr M also disagreed. He said hed suffered losses greater than £800 and considered  a 
significantly higher  amount  of compensation would be fair. He remained concerned  about 
the way the drain repairs were handled in 2012. He also thought  the building  might still be 
moving and further  building repairs might  be necessary.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint
This complaint relates to a claim which began in 2012, is subject to a previous complaint, 
and which  has continued whilst this complaint  has been considered. So I think  its important 
to start by setting out clearly what Ill be considering in this decision.
A previous complaint  was brought to us about what happened between the return  of the 
damage in 2018  and UKIs final response  in October 2018. Our investigator found  the £650  
compensation UKI offered  for the way the claim was dealt  with during this time was 
reasonable. Mr M accepted that. So I wont be re-considering that complaint.
Ill be considering  the complaint Mr M raised after that. In summary, it was about  the findings  
of G, the drain  repairs, and the impact on Mr M of delays to the on-going  claim. UKI gave  its 
final response to this complaint in February  2019. Strictly this complaint is about  what  
happened between  then and the previous  final response in October 2018. But by the time 
the complaint  had been referred  to us and our investigator had considered  it, things had 
moved on. UKI had completed  the building repairs and finalised the claim in June 2019.  
Because of that, our investigator thought it would be reasonable to extend  the scope of the 
complaint until that point.  I agree  it would  be pragmatic  to consider the complaint up to June 
2019, when UKI finalised  the claim.
Im aware further problems arose  after this. When Mr M spoke to our investigator  in 2020, he 
was concerned that problems with the drains  may remain and about the standard of the 
building work  that had been carried out. This included cracks  re-appearing and floors  and 
frames not being level  as well as many other points  since  UKI said the repairs were 
completed. Mr M doesnt consider  the repairs are complete given these problems. I 
understand G has been in touch with Mr M about this and has visited  him again. But he says 
progress has stalled  and UKI hasnt been  receptive to his concerns. UKI has told us no new 
complaints have been made since February 2019.
The problems Mr M describes now are significantly different to those he raised  in his 
complaint in 2019. They havent been investigated  by UKI or this service and, as a result,  I 
cant make  a decision about them under this complaint.
Ref: DRN15548323Mr M will need to put his concerns to UKI. And UKI will need  to consider how best to deal 
with them.  I expect further inspections and/or investigations will be required into why the 
damage has returned  and what should be done to put it right.  Thats beyond the scope of 
this current complaint and something that should be considered separately.
Findings of G
Mr Ms main  complaint  is about the findings of G. It carried out investigations and wrote  a 
report to consider the drainage problems  and whether the building damage  should be 
considered a continuation  of the previous  claim  or as a new one.
In summary,  G found defects in the drainage system. It identified a displaced  joint,  which 
was allowing water to escape into the ground below the house. It said this was consistent 
with the findings of a drainage survey in 2012.  It concluded this defect was acknowledged 
but not addressed in 2012 and has continued to influence movement at the house. G found 
a second defect, which wasnt present in 2012.  It said this had added to the moisture level in 
the soil, but to a lesser extent than the displaced joint.  Overall  G said it was difficult to 
determine whether  the building movement would have reoccurred if the displaced joint had 
been repaired originally.  But it considered  the displaced joint was the primary influence.
Mr M was unhappy the displaced  joint wasnt repaired in 2012. UKI accepted  it wasnt  
previously repaired and agreed the current problems  would be considered  a continuation of 
the original claim  rather than a new one. UKI said the joint wasnt repaired because it 
wasnt contributing  to the subsidence at the time.  UKI has conceded the communication with 
Mr M about this was poor and he hadnt been made  aware  of this during the original claim.
G has explained how the displaced joint is in the area of the building  that was suffering from 
subsidence movement  in 2012   and still is now. The drain  repairs  that were carried  out in 
2012 were in a similar  area. And its clear the displaced joint was identified as a defect in 
2012. The joint is thought by G to have been leaking over many  years and was accepted as 
causing movement  in 2018. Logically, Gs findings suggest to me its likely the drain was 
contributing to the subsidence problem in 2012. In these circumstances, I would expect to 
see persuasive evidence  to support UKIs  argument it wasnt.
The only evidence UKI has provided  from 2012  is a file note from the drainage contractor. In 
summary it says they tried to call Mr M but couldnt  reach him or leave a message. They 
were going  to tell him they would  carry out some  of the drain repairs  but not the displaced  
joint. This is because they say it wasnt having  an influence on the subsidence.
I dont find this persuasive. There is no further  explanation for why it wasnt  causing 
subsidence. The impression  I get is that the joint was scheduled to be repaired but 
somebody, perhaps the drainage contractor, decided against  that shortly  before starting  
work. Its unclear why this decision was made and whether it was supported by any 
engineering or surveying opinion.
Overall, on the evidence available, Im satisfied its more likely  than not that the displaced 
joint was contributing to the subsidence  problem in 2012. It follows that I find UKI ought to 
have repaired it then.  Based on Gs findings,  the joint was the main cause of the problem in 
2018. So if it had been repaired in 2012,  its unlikely the building damage would have 
returned in 2018. That would have  saved Mr M much distress and inconvenience dealing  
with the return  of the problem in 2018.  I will consider that further below.
Ref: DRN15548324Drain repairs
When it reported its findings in 2018,  G told Mr M it had identified  a second  defect  and he 
was responsible for it. He was asked to put it right. He understood he was required to do this 
before G would arrange for the displaced joint to be repaired. Mr M considers this is simply 
an issue with a connection between a drainage channel and a gully, rather  than a defect or a 
fault. He says it was put right in a matter of minutes.
G identified the issue was allowing water to escape into the soil and considered it was 
contributing to the subsidence problem. Although to a lesser extent than the displaced joint,  
it was still an influence.  So I think it was reasonable to highlight the problem and ask Mr M to 
take steps to resolve it. Im satisfied  the policy didnt cover it as the issue arose from the way 
the drain was installed  by a contractor working for Mr M.
Gs report doesnt specify the order in which the work must  be carried  out. Its not entirely 
clear to me whether UKI specified an order. There may have been a misunderstanding. Gs 
report was in December  2018 and it carried out the joint repair  in January 2019. So in any 
event I dont think a delay was caused when repairing the drains.
Impact on Mr M.
Based on my findings above, Im satisfied Mr M has been caused avoidable distress and 
inconvenience. Had the original claim been  handled  as it should, its unlikely he would  have 
had to experience  the continuation  of the subsidence problem, damage and claim. So Im 
satisfied UKI should compensate Mr M.
The previous  complaint  compensated  Mr M for the period when the damage returned until 
October 2018. In this complaint I will consider what a reasonable  level of compensation is for 
the period October 2018  June 2019.
UKI offered £200 and our investigator recommended  that be increased to £1,000. Im 
satisfied thats  a reasonable amount in the circumstances. For around nine months, Mr M 
saw his home suffer damage, such as cracking and distortion to frames  and floors.  He had 
to facilitate a number of inspections,  drainage repairs  and building repairs.  All of this was 
avoidable and caused Mr M substantial disruption and upset. Hes described how stressful  
hes found the experience  and the impact its had on him during this time, for example  
suffering sleepless  nights and taking time away from work  to accommodate the claim.
In response to our investigator,  Mr M mentioned  suffering financial losses as a result of 
taking time off work  during the claim. The compensation payment of £1,000  is intended to 
recognise the non-financial impact on him  the distress of dealing with the claim. Its not 
intended to make up for any lost wages. Mr M has said hes unable to evidence the wages 
hes lost out on. So I cant consider whether a separate payment should  be made for any 
financial loss he may have suffered.
Mr M also said this level of compensation didnt recognise that the claim is still on-going and 
continues to cause  him distress.  The compensation is for the distress caused between  
October 2018 and June  2019 only. So its not intended to compensate for any further 
distress that may have  been caused  since July 2019. I set out above the next steps  for 
dealing with any problems  that have arisen  since then.
Ref: DRN15548325my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons  above I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr M a total of £1,000 
compensation. If it has paid the £200  it offered before,  it must  now pay the remaining £800.
UKI should pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr M accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 January 2021.
James Neville
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1554832