K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that goods he acquired through a hire purchase  agreement financed by 
Caversham Finance Limited  trading  as BrightHouse were not of satisfactory quality. He 
wants a refund.
background
Mr D tells us that in July 2016 he took out a hire purchase agreement for a table and four 
chairs. But he found the table to be wobbly. When his wife complained he said she was 
told that all tables have  some slack and that she should call for repairs  only if it got worse. 
In March 2018, he says an engineer came out twice - but was unable  to fix the table. He 
says he was told this was due to a manufacturing error. And Mr D says that BrightHouse 
was unable to provide  a satisfactory  replacement.  Although BrightHouse  has now cancelled 
the agreement  and transferred ownership  of the (faulty) table and chairs to Mr D - he feels 
he should get a refund of the payments he made.
BrightHouse told us Mr D had complained about  the table in March 2018. It said an engineer 
had repaired  the table in April. A few weeks later it said a second engineer  had been  called 
out and also completed repairs. It said Mr D was still not satisfied and complained to his 
local store.  But unfortunately none of the replacement items  offered proved satisfactory  to Mr 
D. So it had decided in July to transfer  ownership of the items to Mr D and write off the 
remaining balance amounting to £551.98.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 March 2019 in which I indicated it was my intention to 
uphold the complaint but award  a different level of compensation to that recommended  by 
the investigator.
Since then both parties have replied and indicated  their acceptance  of the provisional  
decision. I thank  both parties  for their replies. In the circumstances I see no reason to alter 
my provisional view which is largely  repeated in my final decision which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr D has obviously not got the degree  of satisfaction and convenience he expected  
when he acquired  this set of table and chairs. As the items were new he could reasonably 
expect a fair length  of useful life out of them. 
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is to say I have to decide  what  I think 
is the most  likely explanation for whats happened.
Whilst Mr D has told us his wife complained soon after they acquired the table  I havent  seen 
any note of that contact  in the BrightHouse records. Ive no reason to doubt what  Mr D has 
said so it may be that no note was kept. It appeared the issue had been dealt with as hed 
been advised to keep  matters under review. So it wasnt until March  2018 that the next 
complaint was recorded. 
Ref: DRN16455092I can reasonably infer that - whilst not perhaps perfect - the table was at least  able to be 
used. But it seems it gradually became worse to the point it became impractical  to use. 
Engineers visited on two occasions and reported the faults as repaired. On both occasions 
they recorded customer  fault as being  the cause  of the problem. Subsequently - when Mr D 
continued to complain - attempts were made  to find a suitable replacement.  But as these  - 
for various  reasons - proved unsuitable  BrightHouse decided the table was beyond  
economic repair. It transferred ownership of table  and chairs to Mr D and wrote  off the 
remaining balance.
Theres a conflict of evidence between what BrightHouse  says was the cause of the problem 
- that is customer fault including children spinning the table - and what  Mr D thinks is the 
cause. He says the deliverers of one of the replacement items put it down to a 
manufacturing error. 
Im aware BrightHouse expressed some surprise that I hadnt accepted the evidence  of the 
independent engineers. I understand why this might appear unusual - as this service  
normally places considerable weight upon  the opinions expressed by experts. But both the 
reports were extremely  brief and didnt fully explain the basis  on which  the conclusion was 
reached.
I dont think the available evidence shows which - if either - of the theories  is correct. Its not 
clear if the children were  able to spin the table  because of an inherent defect. Or if the fault 
arose as a consequence of their spinning the table.
To be of satisfactory quality an item has to be durable and fit for purpose. This set of table of 
and chairs was sold as a household item. And it seems to me that such  items are likely to be 
in daily use. Its also foreseeable that many  households will have children and such  
everyday items can reasonably be expected to be designed to withstand a fair amount of 
wear and tear. On balance Im inclined to think - whatever the cause - the table supplied  to 
Mr D did not meet the required standard of durability. I doubt if most  households would 
expect to have  to replace a new table after two years.
Having said that Ive also got to look at the overall  situation. And the finance agreement  was 
for a table and four chairs.  All of which were  separately priced and could presumably have 
been bought as individual items. 
The overall cost of items and credit was £1638. As a proportion the table would have cost
£702 and the chairs  £936 if the agreement had run its full course.
Mr D had paid £1086.02 by the time BrightHouse wrote of the balance - £551.98. On a pro 
rata basis  and rounded down this is £465 for the table and £620 for the chairs.
I think a degree of pragmatism is called for in these circumstances.  I cant see why Mr D 
should not pay for the chairs - which as far as Im aware are not faulty.  But the table is no 
longer of use and can be considered of no value.  I think BrightHouse should write  off the 
cost of that. I take into account that Mr D obtained around two years of use - but to counter 
that hes now got the inconvenience of not having a table to match  his chairs.  I think £100  
fairly reflects the use he had.
I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for BrightHouse  to refund a further £366.00 to Mr D. 
That is the difference between what Mr D had paid and the cost of chairs  and payment for 
use of the table up to that point (£1086 - £720).
Ref: DRN16455093my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint in part.
Im ordering  Caversham Finance Limited  trading as BrightHouse to refund Mr D £366.00 
plus simple interest at 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement.
This is in addition to the £551.98 written  off and £40 compensation paid earlier by cheque.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1645509