K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the way she was treated  by Santander UK Plc in branch. She feels 
the lower terminals arent secure and that she received poor customer  service.  Shes  also 
unhappy with how Santander UK Plc handled  her complaint.
background
During a visit to a Santander branch Mrs R, a wheelchair user,  was asked to use a lowered 
counter, which  she declined to do. Previously shed signed to authorise transactions  at the 
branch, but on this particular day she was asked to use Chip and PIN. She felt the cashier 
was rude to her when  she expressed  her concerns.   
Santander has said that a customer service manager witnessed the exchange and didnt 
believe the cashier had been  rude towards Mrs R. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said that he didnt think  Mrs R had been 
treated unreasonably,  so he didnt recommend that Mrs Rs complaint  be upheld.
Mrs R disagreed and felt that the customer service she received was unacceptable. She said 
the member of staff was grumpy,  argumentative  and rude. The complaint has therefore been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has a duty to make reasonable adjustments  to take steps to remove barriers 
people face as a result of their disability, so that, as far as possible, they receive the same  
service as someone who doesnt  have a disability. Santander appears to have offered 
facilities accessible for wheelchair users in this case. And Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Santander to ask Mrs R to use these facilities during her visit. 
Mrs R was reluctant to use a lowered  terminal as she felt other customers could see over 
her shoulder. Santander has said the Chip and PIN system is part of their fraud prevention  
system, and is more secure that signing. And Im satisfied  that it was reasonable for 
Santander to ask Mrs R to use Chip and PIN considering that an accessible  counter  was 
available. I also note that Mrs R has since clarified that the terminals  are of no issue to her, 
especially, she says, now things have  been  explained. 
I am not sufficiently persuaded the staff member  was rude or unhelpful to Mrs R. Mrs R has 
explained why she thinks that they were rude. On the other  hand,  however, Santander says 
that when it investigated Mrs Rs complaint it spoke to a customer  service  manager who 
witnessed the exchange, whose recollection of the exchange is different to Mrs Rs. In such 
a situation, its very difficult  for me to be sure exactly what  happened during the exchange. 
And I accept  that Mrs R genuinely  feels that the cashier was rude.  But overall I think its 
equally likely that the cashier was simply  trying her best to address  Mrs Rs concerns that 
flowed from her reluctance to use a lowered terminal. So whilst I understand this will 
disappoint Mrs R, I just dont think theres enough  evidence here to uphold  her complaint 
about the cashier.
Ref: DRN12894752Ive considered what Mrs R has said about  the way Santander handled her complaint  about  
this. Shes  said that after she made the complaints she tried to contact the branch several 
times but it refused to talk and kept referring her to its complaints department.  Shes also 
unhappy that she wasnt allowed to speak to the cashier despite asking to many  times. But 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Santander has handled Mrs Rs complaint reasonably. 
Santander investigated the complaint with the branch before providing Mrs R with its 
response on the matter.  And I dont think it was unreasonable for the branch to refer Mrs R 
to its complaints department.
Ive taken into account Mrs Rs comments.  But for the reasons explained above, these points 
dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289475