K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the service they received from Succession  Wealth 
Management Ltd (trading as Succession Group) when they transferred their investments. 
They want  Succession  Group to compensate them for around £966 in fees theyve incurred 
due to the delay in the investments being  transferred,  and also for their time and 
inconvenience.
background 
Mr and Mrs S were  clients of Succession Group.  0n 5 August 2017  Mr S wrote  to their 
adviser to say that they wanted to deal with their two investment  managers direct.
The adviser acknowledged receipt  of Mr Ss email on 7 August, saying that he was sorry to 
hear that Mr and Mrs S would be moving away from the advisory relationship.  And the 
advisory fees were  stopped later in August.
On 15 August Mr S received an email  from one of the investment managers which said that, 
as a result  of its relationship with Succession  it had decided it could not proceed with 
investing his pension directly. However, it subsequently reversed this decision.
Mr S contacted Succession  again at the end of September to express his frustration with the 
transfer process. He said that it appeared that Succession was attempting  to delay and 
thwart his intention to move. Succession  replied and said that Mr S had written in August 
terminating their agreement and effectively removing Succession as his financial adviser.  So 
it said that Mr S now needed  to deal with the platform administrator, rather than Succession.
Following a further exchange of emails Mr S explained what information he needed to pass  
to his new investment  managers, and Succession  supplied this information  to him.
At the end of November 2017  Mr S complained again to Succession. He said that 
Succession had failed to co-operate  with the two investment  managers.  And he said he 
suspected that Succession had applied pressure on the companies, which resulted in one of 
the managers rejecting him as a direct customer for a period  of time.
Succession responded to Mr Ss complaint and said:
Once Mr S had made the decision to deal with his and his wifes investments directly,  
the adviser had instructed the platform administrator that the ongoing adviser charge 
should cease,  which it did with effect  from 23 August;
Succession is a distinct legal entity and has no direct ties with the platform 
administrator;
The administrative process  of encashing  several portfolios held within a number of 
different investment wrappers for two different people and transferring them to 
another provider  can be a lengthy process;
As the adviser  was no longer engaged  and Mr and Mrs S had not engaged another  
adviser the onus  was on them  to issue the necessary  instructions  to facilitate the 
transfer of the funds  to the chosen providers;
Ref: DRN18995792Data protection legislation meant that Succession couldnt release any personal data 
to a third party without authority from the client;
Given the circumstances, Succession  had endeavoured  to assist; however,  the onus 
was on Mr and Mrs S and the investment managers to facilitate  the transfer of funds.
our investigators view
Our investigator felt that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld in part. She said,  in 
summary:
She felt that the email  that was sent from Succession to the investment managers 
wasnt completely in line with what shed expect.  And she felt that, if the IFA hadnt 
sent the email,  Mr and Mrs Ss business  would not have been initially declined by 
one of the investment managers;
She recommended that Succession  should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation of £150, 
as this part of its conduct was unprofessional;
Having said that, she didnt think that Succession could be held accountable for the 
length of time it took for the transfer to complete. She agreed  that, when 
Mr and Mrs S terminated the relationship with their adviser  Succession  no longer had 
the authority to act on their behalf.  Once  Mr and Mrs S terminated the agreement it 
was then their responsibility to instruct  both the platform administrator and the new 
investment providers on how to proceed. She wouldnt expect  Succession  to have 
still carried out this role;
Having looked  at the correspondence between Mr S and Succession,  she could see 
no request for specific information  until Succession told him that it didnt know what  
information the investment manager  had requested. Following this, Mr S told 
Succession what information was needed, and Succession supplied  the information  
to him the day after the request. So she couldnt  say that Succession did anything  
wrong.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with our investigators view and asked for their complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 19 September  2019.  I said, in summary:
Id looked  at the email that Successions adviser wrote to the two investment 
managers on 7 August  2017.  In that email he expressed his disappointment that they 
had accepted approaches from his clients, and threatened  to remove both his 
personal business and that of his remaining clients. I was provisionally satisfied that it 
was this email that led one of the investment managers to initially  decline 
Mr and Mrs Ss business. And I was also provisionally satisfied that, although the 
other investment  manager didnt decline Mr and Mrs Ss business,  there  were  
discussions between it and Succession  that meant that it didnt take steps to action 
the transfer immediately. 
Ref: DRN18995793I agreed with our investigator that the email that Successions adviser sent to the two 
investment managers was unprofessional. And I also agreed that it precipitated the 
initial delays that Mr and Mrs S experienced with the transfers.  From the evidence 
Ive seen, this initial  delay lasted until late September  2017.  I couldnt be sure of the 
date in September when the two investment  managers started to progress the 
transfers, but I noted that Mr S said that he had a meeting with one of the managers 
on 26 September 2017, and that they confirmed they were happy to take him on as a 
direct client  at that meeting. So I was provisionally persuaded that it would be fair for 
me to take a date of 26 September 2017. And my provisional  view was that 
Succession should compensate Mr and Mrs S for an amount equal to the 
discretionary fund management  and platform fees they incurred  from 6 August 2017 
until 26 September 2017.
I also provisionally found that Succession should pay Mr and Mrs S £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset  they experienced as a result  of the delays 
and their business initially being  declined  by one of the investment managers.
Mr S had said that he felt that Succession had also caused delays later in the 
transfer process. But, although Id considered what he has to say, I didnt agree with 
this part of his complaint. Mr S had written to Successions adviser on 5 August 2017. 
he had explained  that he wanted  to deal direct with the investment managers.  And I 
thought it was reasonably clear from the email that he wanted  to end the advisory 
relationship. Succession acknowledged receipt of the email on 7 August 2017,  and 
subsequently stopped  the advisory fees from 23 August 2017. As Succession has 
explained, the platform administrator was a separate legal entity. And once 
Mr and Mrs S had terminated the relationship  with Succession it no longer had 
authority to act on their behalf. So I wouldnt have expected  Succession to have  been  
involved in the transfer process,  which was a matter between  the platform 
administrator and the two investment managers.
Mr S had said that he accepted that Succession had no authority  to act on his behalf 
after he terminated the advisory relationship, and that was never requested. But he 
says that what was requested was information that Succession held that would have 
enabled the two investment managers to contact the platform provider. But the only 
evidence Ive seen  of Succession  being  asked for specific  information was when 
Mr S emailed  Succession on 2 October  2017.  Mr S asked for scheme  or policy 
numbers. And Succession sent Mr S the relevant details the following day. So my 
provisional decision was that Succession  didnt do anything wrong in this respect and 
I didnt uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr S had also complained that Succession retained cash for an extended period after 
the main transfer  of assets. However,  I was satisfied that this was a matter for the 
platform administrator rather than Succession so, for the avoidance of doubt, I hadnt 
considered it further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has responded to my provisional  decision. He says, in particular:
Ref: DRN18995794until he initiated the transfer he was unaware that the platform  administrator was a 
separate entity. And if Succession had responded to his two investment managers 
professionally he would have remained unaware of this;
my characterisation of the email sent from Succession to the two investment  
managers as unprofessional  is extremely generous, and he believes that 
Succession is in breach  of FCA requirements;
the primary reason  he initiated  the complaint was to highlight  the improper conduct of 
Succession. He would like Succession to give him a full written apology,  and he also 
wants Succession to be reprimanded for its behaviour.
Succession has not made any further  comments in response to my provisional decision.
While I appreciate that Mr S was unaware that the platform administrator was a separate  
entity until he initiated the transfer, this doesnt change  my decision.  Im satisfied that the 
redress set out in my provisional decision is fair to compensate Mr and Mrs S for the delays 
and upset they experienced as a result of Successions actions. 
Mr S says he believes that Succession  is in breach of FCA requirements.  And he has asked 
that Succession should receive an official reprimand for its conduct. But it is not the role of 
this service to issue reprimands, and if Mr S wishes to pursue this he should take it up with 
the FCA.
I am able to direct Succession to issue Mr S with a written apology. I understand the strength 
of Mr Ss feelings on this issue and  while the wording in my provisional  decision may have 
been understated  I agree that an apology is warranted in this case. Succession has 
agreed to send Mr S a written apology, and I amend  my provisional decision accordingly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Succession Wealth  Management  
Ltd to:
issue a written apology to Mr and Mrs S;
compensate Mr and Mrs S for the discretionary fund management and platform fees 
they incurred from 6 August 2017  until 26 September 2017, together  with 8% interest 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement; and
pay Mr and Mrs S £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Ref: DRN18995795Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1899579