K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the cost of the third party claim  that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) 
settled against  his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr W was involved  in a low impact accident where he hit the back of a third party vehicle. Mr 
W reported the accident  to UKI. He told them he had been  in a long line of traffic at the time 
and was travelling  at around  two miles per hour when he made contact with the third party  
vehicle. 
During that first notification call Mr W asked UKI if it would dispute a claim from the third 
party if it should receive one. UKI told Mr W it would  not dispute any claim that the third party 
may bring  as liability was not in dispute,  but that it would only pay for accident related 
damage. It also explained to Mr W how it would affect  his no claims discount  if the third party  
made a claim. 
At the end of Mr Ws policy he chose to renew  with a different insurer.  The new insurer told 
Mr W that he had a fault claim showing on the claims and underwriting exchange database 
(CUE). Mr W contacted  UKI as he was unaware  of what this was. 
UKI told Mr W that the third party  had made  a claim and it had settled it at a cost of just 
under £1400. Mr W thought that this cost was excessive and he was also concerned  that 
UKI hadnt notified him it had been settled.
UKI looked into the cost of the claim,  it said it was happy the cost was reasonable and in line 
with what it expected. However, it did award  £75 to Mr W to apologise for failing to notify  him 
there had been  a third party claim.  Mr W accepted the £75, but remained unhappy  with the 
claim cost and would like it removed  or amended on CUE,  so brought that element of his 
complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld,  she felt that UKI had 
settled the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr W didnt agree and so the 
matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Mr W accepted he hit the third party car on its rear bumper and he was at fault. This meant 
that when the third party claim came through to UKI it needed  to assess two things:  
was the damage  being claimed  for was consistent with the circumstances of the 
accident 
Ref: DRN18385392was the cost reasonable for the work that parts and work that needed  to be carried 
out
To do this it relied on a report from an engineer  which outlined the repairs  involved  and the 
labour time needed to do these. Having  looked at the report  I can see the repairs  all related 
to the back bumper area of the car, and so were in line with the accident circumstances.
Looking at the cost of the claim, there  are three  areas here:  parts, paint and labour. The VAT 
is added. The parts needed all related  to the bumper and rear of the car and the labour time 
billed for the work was in line with what would be expected for this type of repair. 
Mr Ws has said that the third party vehicle already had scratches  or marks on it. And I 
accept this is entirely possible. But it wasnt possible for UKI to only replace the part of the 
bumper that Mr W hit. It needed to replace the whole bumper and then colour  match it by 
painting it, regardless of any existing  scratches. And its because of this the cost of the claim 
is more that Mr W mightve expected. While  I understand that this is frustrating, I cant see 
that UKI was unreasonable in doing  this. It follows that I wont be asking UKI to change  what 
it has recorded on CUE.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1838539