K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  One Insurance  Limiteds handling of their car 
insurance policy.
Reference to One Insurance includes their agents.
background
Mr and Mrs T had their car insurance  policy with One Insurance.  Mrs T was the policyholder 
and Mr T was a named  driver. Their son was also a named driver. The policy  was taken  out 
in 2013 through an insurance broker after being directed by a comparison website. Mrs T 
said Mr T had completed the online application  on her behalf.  When taking out the policy   
Mrs T declared she was the owner and registered keeper of the car. I understand initially  the 
policy renewed annually.  But that later changed  into a monthly rolling policy. The last 
monthly renewal started on 22 July 2018.
Unfortunately, on 7 August 2018, the car was destroyed by fire and Mr and Mrs L claimed on 
their policy.  While doing validation checks One Insurance found  out the owner and 
registered keep  of the car was Mr and Mrs Ls son. One Insurance said had they known the 
owner and registered keeper was their son, they wouldnt have offered the policy.  So, 
One Insurance didnt pay the claim and they voided (treated as though it never came into 
existence) the policy from the last monthly renewal in July. One Insurance  refunded Mr and 
Mrs L the premium for the last months cover. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt think that was fair and complained. But One Insurance didnt uphold  it. 
Mr and Mrs L didn't think that was reasonable so they brought  their complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. He felt that One Insurances decision was reasonable. As Mr and 
Mrs L didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr and Mrs L, but Im not going to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
In their complaint,  Mr and Mrs L have  made  a number of detailed  points and Ive considered all 
those carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what I consider to be the key issues. My 
role is to decide if One Insurance have dealt with Mr and Mrs L in a fair and reasonable way.
I have seen One Insurances  underwriting criteria. Each insurer sets their own underwriting 
criteria which are the rules they follow to determine whether or not they will provide someone 
with cover.  One Insurances rules  say that they wont provide insurance to anyone  where  the 
owner and registered keeper of the car is the policyholders child. Im therefore satisfied that 
if One Insurance knew that Mr and Mrs Ls son was the owner  and registered keeper  of the 
car at the outset  they wouldnt have insured them.
Ref: DRN17193712One Insurance have suggested that Mrs L not telling  them about her son owning the car 
amounted to, what is known in the insurance  industry, a careless  misrepresentation. And 
theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do in such  a situation.  It says that insurers  
may void the policy and refuse all claims if they wouldnt  have provided  cover had the correct 
information been given by the policyholder when applying for the policy. Where that happens 
the insurer must return the premium, which is what One Insurance have done. 
In Mrs Ts case, Ive been shown the questions  she was asked on the online comparison 
website. One question asked: Are you (or will you be) the legal owner of this car? Beside 
that question there  was an information box that said:  We need to know  whether the car 
belongs to you. If you dont own the car, you should answer No (the owner  of the car and 
the registered keeper can be different people) . The next question asked: Are you (or will 
you be) the registered  keeper of this car? Beside that question there was an information box 
that said: The registered  keeper is the person  whose name  appears  in the cars log book 
(V5 registration  document). The owner of the car and the registered keeper can be different  
people. Mrs L answered yes to both questions.  I know Mrs L said Mr L had completed the 
online application for her. But that was done  on her behalf and she is responsible for the 
answers given. Ive seen  that Mr and Mrs Ls son is the registered  keeper of the car on the 
V5 registration document. The finance agreement is also in his sole name. So he was the 
owner and registered keeper of the car.
Once the online application  was completed on the comparison website, a number of policies 
offered by different insurers were displayed. Mrs L chose one and they were  directed to the 
brokers website. Mrs L had to confirm the details  she entered on the comparison website 
were correct before the broker sold her the One Insurance policy.  Once the policy  was taken 
out Mr and Mrs L were sent a number of documents, including  the policy  certificate, policy  
schedule, One Insurances terms and conditions policy booklet, the brokers  terms of 
business and a document called statement of fact.  Those documents  explained the policy  
was provided on the basis  of the information Mrs L had given, including she was the owner  
and registered  keeper.  The documents  asked her to read everything carefully  and to correct 
any information that was incorrect. There was also a warning that, if that information  was 
wrong, in certain  circumstances,  the policy could be cancelled or voided and any claim not 
paid out. But Mrs L didnt correct the information.  
I understand that One Insurance sent Mr and Mrs L a statement  of fact once a year. That 
document said the policy was provided on the basis that Mrs L was the owner and registered 
keeper of the car. It said the document should  be read and corrections made if anything was 
inaccurate. But no corrections were  made.
Ref: DRN17193713I think the information One Insurance provided Mr and Mrs L, and the yearly reminders for 
them to check the information and correct  inaccuracies was clear.  I accept that there was no 
bad intent on Mr and Mrs Ls part but I do think that a careless misrepresentation was made. 
I therefore feel that One Insurances decision to void the policy; not pay the claim; and 
refund the final months premium was in accordance with CIDRA and therefore reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs L said that they feel One Insurance should refund  their premiums since 2013 
when they first started their policy with them. But I think its reasonable for One Insurance to 
only refund  the premium  for the period of insurance  which was voided. And as Mr and Mrs L 
had a rolling monthly policy, the final period of insurance was 22 July to 22 August 2018.  I 
know the information on which One Insurance provided cover since 2013 was inaccurate.  I 
therefore think if there was a claim during  that period and One Insurance  found out about the 
information being wrong, they would have voided the policy.  But even though  the policy was 
based on wrong information that gave One Insurance the right to void the policy,  its possible 
that, under the provisions of the Road Traffic Act 1988, if there  was an accident  or incident, 
One Insurance may still have been  required to pay a third partys claim.  For that reason they 
still provided cover for which they were entitled  to be paid.
Finally, Mr and Mrs L said that after our adjudicator issued his view they applied for a new 
policy on another car with One Insurance.  They  said they used the same details, namely that 
Mrs L was the policy  holder  and her son was the owner and registered keeper  of the car. 
They said One Insurance offered to insure  them which  means their policy  shouldnt have 
been voided on the basis that One Insurance  would never have given them  cover. Our 
adjudicator told Mr and Mrs L they could make  a new complaint  to One Insurance on this 
point if they wanted to. Thats because  One Insurance havent  been given the opportunity  to 
respond to this issue. But it may be helpful if I explain what  I think  has happened from the 
information Ive seen. I think Mr and Mrs L got a new quote from the same insurance  broker  
but not from One Insurance.  The insurance  broker Mr and Mrs L have been  using dont 
underwrite the policies  they sell. As an insurance  broker they sell policies and help 
administer them. They work with a number of different insurers like One Insurance.  So, when 
a customer applies for insurance  and gives  details of the cover they want, the broker  will 
look to see which, if any, of the insurers  they work with will offer that customer  a policy.  
Different customers will have different needs and not all insurers  will offer cover if the needs 
of a customer arent in line with the insurers rules (underwriting guidelines). And in this case, 
I think whats happened is that Mr and Mrs L have applied for new insurance through  their 
broker on the basis that the owner  and registered  keeper is their son while  Mrs L is to be the 
policyholder. And the broker has found  an insurer that has offered them  a policy  on that 
basis. But the cover  for that policy isnt provided by One Insurance. So even though the 
policy has been sourced from the same broker its a different  insurer  that provides the cover. 
But if Mr and Mrs L want to raise a complaint about this issue they will have to tell One 
Insurance so they can respond  accordingly.
While I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs L, and the consequences they have experienced 
because of the voidance of the policy, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN17193714my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1719371