K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mrs M complain  that AWP P&C SA (AWP)  unfairly turned down their claim  for the 
cancellation of their holiday. 
My references to AWP will include  its agents.  
background
In July 2018, Mr and Mrs M booked a holiday. They took out a travel  insurance policy  with 
AWP the following  day. Online Mrs M declared a pre-existing gallbladder condition.  She said 
this was diagnosed around 10 May 2018 and answered no to the following questions.
Have you experienced any symptoms during the last three months?
Other than for routine  review, are you awaiting treatment (including surgery), 
referral or investigations?
As a result of the answers she gave, Mrs M was directed to call AWPs helpline about her 
pre-existing condition. AWP asked questions  during  the call, including  the following: 
Other than for routine review, are you awaiting treatment  (including surgery), referral  
or investigations?. 
And Mrs M answered:  Im awaiting some investigation. 
During this call, AWP went on to provide a quote  for an additional premium to cover Mrs Ms 
pre-existing condition, which she accepted and paid. 
The following  day, Mrs M was admitted to hospital due to a flare up of her gallbladder 
condition. After being discharged from hospital, Mrs M called AWP and gave an update  
about what had happened. 
Around a week  later Mrs M called AWP again. She said shed been admitted  to hospital for 
a second time in relation  to her gallbladder  condition. She said she didnt know  whether or 
not she would need to cancel her holiday,  as she had been told she needed to have surgery 
and didnt know how long the wait would  be. 
Mr and Mrs M later cancelled their holiday due to Mrs Ms gallbladder condition. And 
submitted a claim to AWP. AWP turned  down  the claim  and Mr and Mrs M complained.
AWP said Mrs M had answered no to questions about having symptoms of her pre-existing 
condition in the three months prior to taking out her policy in July 2018. And had answered 
no when asked if she was awaiting treatment, referral or investigations.  It said the medical  
certificate completed by Mrs Ms GP in support of her claim showed the onset of her 
condition was in May 2018 and that she was diagnosed and put on a waiting list for 
treatment in June  2018. 
AWP said if Mrs M had answered its questions correctly at the outset, it would have been 
unable to provide  cover  for her condition. 
Unhappy with AWPs response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. 
Ref: DRN15931822An investigator looked at what had happened and said she thought AWP should pay Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim. She said shed  listened to a recording  of later calls between AWP and Mrs M 
after the policy was taken out. She found Mrs M had confirmed she was awaiting 
investigations in relation  to her gallbladder  condition. She said she accepted  that Mrs M 
thought she had been referred for further investigations rather  than treatment, and thought  
Mrs M hadnt  made a misrepresentation. 
Mr and Mrs M accepted the investigators  view, but AWP disagreed.  
AWP said it accepted  Mrs M had advised  of investigations during the call, but said it didnt 
think this made a difference and it still thought the claim  shouldnt be paid.  It asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me to review. 
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said:
When reviewing this complaint I considered the relevant law. The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  sets out the 
responsibilities of the consumer and insurer when entering into an insurance 
contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to an insurer (such as giving untrue or misleading 
answers). 
The medical evidence  provided by Mrs Ms GP confirmed the following dates  in 
relation to her condition.  
Date of onset and first consultation about  the condition   18 May 2018
Date of diagnosis  21 June 2018
Waiting list for treatment  28 June 2018
And I took into account that she took her policy out on 11 July 2018. 
A lot of the representations in this case have focused on whether Mrs M answered 
the question about when  she experienced symptoms correctly.  But, I said even  if 
I thought she answered that question accurately, I still didnt  think her complaint 
should be upheld.  
I said that because  I didnt think Mrs M answered  the online question  about whether 
she was under investigation correctly.  And, I thought if she had, AWP wouldnt have 
offered her cover for the condition. I explained further: 
AWP said Mrs M incorrectly answered  its online question about treatment, 
referral or investigations. And it said if Mrs M had correctly answered yes to this, 
it would  have been unable to provide cover  for her condition. 
Mrs M said shed  received no correspondence from her GP about  the referral,  so 
she answered the online question with no. But at the point she took out the 
policy, she knew she was going  to be referred  to the hospital  for further checks.  
And its clear she knew she was awaiting some form of investigations,  as she 
Ref: DRN15931823confirmed this in her later call to AWPs helpline.  So I thought  Mrs M made 
a careless misrepresentation.
AWP evidenced that if Mrs M answered yes to the online question  about 
treatment, referral,  or investigations, she would have  been  routed to a nurse  
screening. And AWP said the result would have been that cover  couldnt be 
provided for the gallbladder condition. It said it doesnt provide cover for 
conditions awaiting treatment, referral  or investigations. This isnt uncommon in 
the travel  insurance industry, so I didnt  think  Mrs M had been treated unfairly.
Mrs M called AWP in response to the instructions she was given online and gave 
details of her pre-existing  condition  and confirmed she was awaiting 
investigations. I accepted there was an opportunity for AWP to pick up the issue  
during that call, but the advisor  was working  on the basis  the initial online 
questions had been answered correctly.  So I didnt  think AWP acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances of this case.  
Based  on the evidence provided by AWP; if Mrs M had answered the question 
about investigations with yes, she would  have been  presented with appointment 
times for a full nurse screening of her condition. I was satisfied AWP 
demonstrated this would have resulted in Mrs Ms pre-existing gallbladder 
condition being excluded from cover. So, had she answered  the question 
correctly during the online  sales  process,  she wouldnt have been offered cover  
for this condition and it therefore follows that AWP wouldnt have offered any 
extra cover  during the later call.
I established that Mrs M made a careless  misrepresentation when taking  out her 
policy, and had this not happened, AWP wouldnt have offered cover for her 
gallbladder condition.  I was satisfied that under CIDRA, AWP was entitled to 
choose to continue with Mr and Mrs Ms policy, but exclude claims relating to 
Mrs Ms gallbladder condition. And as such,  I didnt think  AWP turned down Mr 
and Mrs Ms holiday cancellation claim unfairly. 
As Mrs M was unable to benefit from the extra  cover  taken out in relation to the 
gallbladder condition,  I asked AWP if it was willing to refund the extra £56 premium 
she paid for this. And AWP  confirmed it would refund  this amount to Mr and Mrs M. 
the response to my provisional  decision
AWP responded to my provisional decision and had no further  comments. Mrs M also 
responded to my provisional decision.  In summary she said:  
she was forwarded  to a nurse screening twice  and was still offered  cover and said 
the agent she spoke with sounded  very uncertain; 
she has since travelled using the same  policy and said AVP had wrongly stated she 
cancelled it; 
she and her husband are aware  of the poor standard of medical facilities in the 
country they were  booked to travel to, so would not answer questions incorrectly; and 
she was unhappy  the ombudsman reached a different  outcome  from the investigator.  
Ref: DRN15931824my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of the response to them.
AVP had already provided me with recordings of calls Mrs M made to its helpline,  including 
the nurse screening calls which took place after she had experienced flare ups of her 
condition. I asked AVP if there were any other calls which Ive not been provided with, where  
Mrs M was referred to a nurse screening at the point  of purchasing  the policy.  
AVP said it was unaware of any further  calls and asked if Mrs M had any information about  
the date and time of the calls. 
Mrs M said the calls took place too long ago to appear on her phone  bills and she said she 
couldnt remember the exact  dates  or sequence of who she had spoken  to and when. 
Based on the call recordings and the information  Mrs M has provided,  I think  its most likely 
that the calls Mrs M is referring to are the ones which took place after she called AVP to 
advise of a flare up of her condition. I say this because Mrs Ms recollection is consistent  
with the recordings  of calls which took place on 23 July 2018, some  time after she had 
already purchased the policy and paid an additional premium in respect  of her gallbladder 
condition. 
The points Mrs M has raised havent  changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusion  set out in my provisional  decision and summarised  above.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. And 
I make  no award against AWP P&C SA. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1593182