K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC unfairly applied consent  to let fees to his mortgage 
account. He asks that the fees are refunded, with interest and compensation.
background
Mr D had a mortgage  with Lloyds. In 2006 he contacted Lloyds as he intended to move out 
of the property and let it out. Lloyds applied consent  to let fees most years  from 2007  to 
2018. Mr D said hed moved back into the property  after about a year and Lloyds shouldnt 
have continued  to apply the consent to let fee without notifying  him. He says he only noticed  
the fees had been  applied in early 2018. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Lloyds had 
applied the consent to let fee in 2006  when Mr D asked for its consent to let the property. 
The consent  lasts for 12 months. Lloyds tried to contact Mr D again without success. In 
2011, Mr D told Lloyds  hed moved back into the property.  But he didnt  provide  the evidence  
 such as a utility bill  Lloyds asked for. Lloyds sent annual  letters  about whether the 
property was still let out. As it didnt get a response, it applied the fee. The adjudicator said 
Lloyds didnt act unfairly.
Mr D didnt agree. He said his relationship with Lloyds is unequal and he had no option  but 
to agree to its terms. He questioned Lloyds  actions after hed told it he was living  in the 
property in 2011. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr D had a residential  mortgage  with Lloyds.  The mortgage terms and conditions  didnt allow  
him to let out the property  without Lloyds consent.  
Mr D asked for Lloyds consent to let the property  in March 2006 when he was working 
overseas. Lloyds gave  consent for a period  of 12 months and Mr D paid the consent  to let fee. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr D in March 2007, before  the 12 months letting consent ended. Mr D said 
he was moving back into the property.  He also asked about buy to let mortgage rates.  Mr D 
didnt change his correspondence address back to the secured property or respond to 
Lloyds letters. In August  2007 Lloyds applied a consent to let fee.
Lloyds says unauthorised letting fees were applied from February  2009.  This was because  
Mr D didnt respond to its letters to confirm whether the property was let out.
Mr D contacted Lloyds  in February 2011  saying he was now living  in the property. Lloyds 
asked for a utility or council tax bill. However, it didnt receive this. Lloyds assumed the 
property was still let and applied a fee. This continued until early 2019. 
Ref: DRN13288992Lloyds says it wrote to Mr D each year about the renewal of the consent to let and the fee. 
Mr D says he didnt receive these letters.
did Lloyds act fairly?
The terms and conditions  in effect when Mr D took out the mortgage said he had to occupy 
the whole  of the property  as his main  residence. The terms and conditions  in effect from 
2008 onwards  said he couldnt  let out the property without Lloyds prior consent.  
So I think it was clear  that Mr D needed Lloyds consent before letting the property. And I 
think he knew this as he sought consent  in 2006. 
Here, Lloyds assumed  that the property  continued  to be let after 2006. I dont think, based 
on the available evidence, this was unreasonable. 
Lloyds says it wrote to Mr D several  times each year, asking about the occupation of the 
property and setting  out its letting fees. Its records support this. Lloyds says the letters  
werent returned as undelivered.  Mr D says he didnt  receive  any of these letters. However,  I 
havent seen anything to suggest this was due to an error by Lloyds.
Mr D told Lloyds in February 2011  that hed moved  into the property. Lloyds wrote to Mr D 
asking for an original utility bill or council tax bill. It said if this wasnt  received it would 
assume the property  was let and apply an unauthorised  letting fee. Lloyds sent a reminder in 
March 2011 and this also set out the letting fee. Mr D says either he didnt receive the letters 
or they werent  clear that the fee would be applied if he didnt  respond.  I think  the letters 
were clear  about the fee. If Mr D didnt receive  the letters, I cant see that this was due to an 
error by Lloyds.
Id also note that Mr D requested online  access in February 2011.  Lloyds sent him the 
information he needed for this by post. Lloyds says Mr D was able to access  the account. If 
Mr D did access  the account  online hed have been able to see that consent  to let fees were 
applied and query this if he thought it wasnt correct. Or, if Mr D didnt receive  the information 
hed asked for, Id expect  him to contact  Lloyds about this.
Mr D says Lloyds should assume hes living in the property unless he tells it otherwise. And 
he points to his fax in 2011 saying he was living in the property.  But Lloyds wrote to him at 
the property and didnt get a response. 
Lloyds has explained  to Mr D what he needs  to provide as evidence  he was living  at the 
property. Mr D says council  tax was in his ex-partners  name and other bills were in the 
names of family members who were living at the property but not paying  rent. Its unfortunate 
that Mr D cant  provide this evidence  that he was living in the property. But I hope  hell 
understand that without this its difficult for me to find that Lloyds treated him unfairly  when it 
assumed the property  was let out.
I dont think its unfair  for Lloyds to apply a fee when a property is let out. Buy to let mortgages 
generally attract a higher  rate of interest than a residential mortgage.  Theres administrative 
work for Lloyds each  time it renews the letting  consent. And letting the property could put 
Lloyds security at greater risk or make enforcing the security more difficult. 
Ref: DRN13288993In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to refund the 
consent to let fees applied  to Mr Ds account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1328899