K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI). Although Mrs C had a Marks & 
Spencer account, a company called Allianz  Insurance plc is now responsible for these types  
of sale, so Ill be referring to Allianz  throughout this decision.
background
Im aware Mrs C has had her complaint upheld in full and has already been sent (and 
banked) a cheque last year.
Her complaint relates to the amount of redress she was awarded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  about the redress.
It seems  Mrs Cs account was in operation between 1996 and 2008. She thinks  the amount 
of compensation  she received seems quite  low for a 12 year period.
But Ive looked  carefully into her case.  Notably, although her account  may not have officially  
been closed until 2008, the last time she was charged any PPI on it was actually 24 August  
2003. So we need to look at the compensation over a 7 year period rather than 12.
I can also see that Allianz couldnt  calculate  the exact amount of PPI Mrs C was charged for 
during the years 1996 and 2000.  This is because its records  dont go back that far.
Businesses arent required to keep  records  indefinitely. In fact, there is an expectation that 
they shouldnt  keep records too long.  And my experience is that not having records  from this 
period isnt particularly unusual. I dont  think its unreasonable either  so in cases  like this, we 
expect businesses to calculate any redress on the average spend,  given the consumers 
broad spending  habits.
I asked to see how the redress was calculated in Mrs Cs case. An average calculation has 
been used between 1996 and 2000. And the actual amount  she spent on PPI has been used 
for the period between 2000  and 2003. As I say, after that, no PPI was charged.  Perhaps  
understandably, Mrs C hasnt got records  going  back that far herself.
So in summary,  I think the redress for the PPI mis-sold to Mrs C has been calculated 
correctly. I can see interest was also added in accordance  with our general approach. And 
Im sure if Mrs C looks at the redress through the lens of a 7 year period, rather than 12 
years, she might find the figure easier to have confidence in.
Obviously all this happened  a long time ago and I appreciate remembering what  happened 
will be difficult. But I think the redress Mrs C has already banked is correct.
my final decision
Ref: DRN18089462Im not upholding this complaint and I dont  direct Allianz Insurance plc to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1808946