K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that a car he is financing through an agreement  with Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
(BMF) is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr T took receipt  of a used car in April 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. At the point of supply the car had completed  34,721  miles and was a 
little more than five years old.
Mr T says that it was only a couple of weeks later that he noticed  some damage to the car. 
He says:
the parcel shelf was missing
a vent was damaged and
there was damage to the rear bodywork
the rear seats  were  not valeted properly
He complained to MBF  and the dealership provided  a replacement parcel shelf  and vent.  But 
they wouldnt repair the bodywork as they said this was normal  wear and tear and Mr T had 
the opportunity  to inspect the car when it was supplied to him and had signed to say he 
accepted its condition.
Mr T was unhappy with their response  so he referred his complaint  to this service  and our 
adjudicator provided  his opinion. He thought BMF had been  fair when rectifying  the issues it 
did but he didnt  think they had to fix the bodywork for Mr T. He noted that Mr T had signed  
to say he accepted the condition of the car before the contract was made and thought  it was 
reasonable to suggest he should  have noted  the damaged bodywork and had therefore 
accepted the cars condition. He understood that BMF had offered £100 contribution to the 
bodywork repairs and he thought that was fair and didnt think  they needed to take any 
additional action.
But Mr T disagreed. He said the dealership  shouldve listed  the damage  on the 
advertisement and the damage  that was now present meant the car was worth less than it 
should be worth. He explained that the dealership hadnt fitted the parcel shelf and vents but 
had sent them to him, in the post,  to fit himself.  So he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T but I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN18678302board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF are responsible 
and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
But the relevant  legislation says that when we consider whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality if the pre contract inspection should  have  revealed faults with a car, and the 
consumer goes ahead with the deal anyway, then these faults should not persuade  us the 
car was of unsatisfactory  quality.
I can see that Mr T signed to say hed been  given  an opportunity  to inspect the vehicle and 
that he accepted its condition.  
Ive reviewed images of the damage  to Mr Ts car and I think its fair to say that during that 
inspection he ought to have noticed  the damaged/creased rear panel  which  is clearly  visible  
in the pictures.  So I dont  think it would be fair to subsequently ask BMF to take 
responsibility.
BMF have provided a replacement parcel  shelf and vent and have offered to pay a little 
towards the panel repair. I think that goes beyond what legislation  requires of them and that 
BMF have therefore been fair in their handling of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1867830