K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  at a meeting in 1999  at the same time as taking  a hire-purchase  
agreement. She was employed at the time in a call centre and had been there five years.  
Shes told us she was entitled  to at least six months  full sick pay as well as redundancy pay. 
In the questionnaire  she sent with her complaint,  Mrs W told us of an operation she had for a 
health issue around 20 years before the sale with which she missed a month of work.  From  
what she told us then,  she hadnt  before the sale had any other health issues  since that one.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it offered to 
pay Mrs Ws monthly loan repayment.  The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear the 
balance on death.  AXA hasnt been able to tell us the monthly  PPI premium but what  I have, 
what we know and what Ive seen of these policies  makes  me think  it likely the premium here 
began at less than £2 a month.  The premium still had to be paid during a successful claim.
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ws representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ws representatives  believe  there  to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs W about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs W and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
Ref: DRN11800392The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN11800393Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
AXA was a member  of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, AXA was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not AXA  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of AXA. 
So I am satisfied it is right I should take these codes  into account when deciding  what  is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  I am also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance  
when considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN11800394-Whether AXA gave  Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
AXA, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs W has said she had no interest  in PPI 
and it was just included as part of her package.  But her credit agreement  had a separate  
section for the PPI - with a box to sign if the cover  was wanted. The section was called 
Payment Protection Insurance and it said: Only  sign this box if you want  cover.  Mrs W 
signed the box  and I think  its likely she wouldve known she shouldnt  sign the box for the 
cover if she didnt want the cover.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs W knew  the policy was optional  
and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  The questionnaire Mrs W sent us with her 
complaint didnt say AXA had given  advice. Based on what  I have, including what Mrs W has 
said, Im not persuaded AXA provided advice.  
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs W. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to her attention  and highlighting  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  
limitations and exclusions.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is the policy would protect her payments if she were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. 
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs W would have taken the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  AXA gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs W agreed  to take the policy. 
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
Ref: DRN11800395attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think it is unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs W? To what extent did Mrs W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs W. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. 
To answer  this, I must decide  whether  or not she wouldve still taken the policy, had AXA 
done things properly. Mrs W says she wouldnt and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. As this was a non-advised sale,  Mrs W 
had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the 
potential consequences  if she didnt insure against the risk of being unable  to work.
As Ive found above, Mrs W chose  to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude  
she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mrs W thought  she was getting is not 
exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs W has suffered  any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mrs W knew  she would have to pay something for 
the policy, it doesnt appear  AXA told her the exact  premium at the point she applied.  Having 
said that, I dont think  it likely  she would  have taken the policy  without having some  idea of 
the approximate  cost. Also if, when  she started paying for it, the cost had been  significantly 
Ref: DRN11800396different to or at odds  with her expectations  at the point of sale,  its possible Mrs W might  
have raised this with AXA at the time or reconsidered her decision.  Overall, I am not 
persuaded Mrs W would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been given the exact 
figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  AXA made clear exactly  what Mrs W would get back  in return  
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely her expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her payments 
under the hire-purchase agreement)  were significantly different to what the PPI actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability claims relating to health issues Mrs W knew  or shouldve 
known about or for which she had been  advised or treated by a doctor in the 12 months 
before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs W be stopped  from doing  
her own or any similar job, and also be stopped from doing  any paid work her 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified her to do; and 
For disability and unemployment the policy protected  payments for up to 12 months, 
rather than the remaining  loan term, and cover would end when Mrs W turned 65 (or 
retired if earlier).
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. Also what I have  doesnt persuade me Mrs W wouldve  been 
caught by any of the significant exclusions  for example she was in permanent  employment 
and what she told us of her health when she came to us doesnt persuade me she had a 
health issue of a kind that mightve lead to future  work absences for which she couldnt  have  
claimed. So, I think Mrs W still had some  good  reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to Mrs W 
from taking the policy,  Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she were  not only unable  to do her 
own or any similar job, but also unable  to do any paid work  her education, experience  or 
training might reasonably qualify her to do, it might  have  played into her thinking about what 
Ref: DRN11800397to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  although, given Mrs Ws 
circumstances, on balance I think she would  still have  been interested  in taking the cover.
AXA may not have  told Mrs W any claim she made  would be limited  to 12 months. This may 
have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months was longer  
than she wouldve received full sick pay and her redundancy  entitlement  was also likely 
significantly less than 12 months income. Taking everything into account, I consider it likely 
Mrs W would  still have thought PPI that paid the loan payments for up to 12 months would 
be of benefit if she couldnt work in the circumstances the policy  covered.
Mrs W has said she wouldve ceased to be eligible to claim on the policy  when she turned 
60, and she turned 60 while it was in place. The disability and unemployment cover ended  at 
age 65 or when Mrs W retired if earlier.  But Mrs W was in her mid-fifties when she took the 
policy, so I think it more  likely than not she wouldve thought it would cover her for disability 
and unemployment  for a reasonable period  before she reached age 65 or retired. Also, as I 
think Mrs W understood, broadly, that the PPI was cover in case disability or unemployment 
stopped her working, I think it unlikely she wouldve thought she could claim these benefits 
after she retired from work.  With all this in mind, I think  better information about  when cover 
ended is unlikely to have changed  Mrs Ws decision to take the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs W wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely she thought 
she was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help her manage  the consequences  were 
she made redundant or unable  to work  through accident or sickness.  In the circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not she wouldve  taken  the policy in any event, notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs W would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN11800398proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the PPI. That is because, while I accept it is possible she would  not have taken it, 
I am satisfied, of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not she would still have taken the 
PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude AXA should pay Mrs W compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mrs W thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1180039