K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that his car insurance renewal with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(trading as More  Th>n), was poorly  handled.
background 
In February 2018  Mr N bought a car insurance  policy online with More  Th>n. When he took 
the policy out he opted to receive his documents via their online portal rather  than by the 
post.
In February 2019  he received a letter explaining  an email  had been  sent to his registered 
email address. But Mr N couldnt find the email More Th>n said it had sent.
Mr N complained to More Th>n. It looked into what had happened. It explained  that as he 
had opted for his documents to be sent to his online portal he would need to log on to it to 
access them.
Unhappy with this, Mr N referred his complaint to our service. He explained that he wanted  
£100 for the inconvenience caused. One of our investigators looked  into what  had 
happened. She thought  the letter that had been sent to Mr N couldve been clearer.  But she 
felt that the letter it had sent Mr N did give him sufficient notice that his policy  was due to 
renew. She recommended that More Th>n  send  Mr N a written apology, which it agreed to 
do. 
Mr N didnt think the apology was enough  to recognise the inconvenience that hed been 
caused. He also raised  some issues with accessing  his online portal.  Our investigator 
explained that he couldnt access it because  hed decided  not to renew  his policy  with More 
Th>n. 
Mr N asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking More Th>n to take any further steps to resolve this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive reviewed the letter that More Th>n  sent to Mr N in February. It says:
As youve  chosen  to manage your account  online, weve  sent your renewal invitation  to the 
email address that you provided us when  you set up your account. The invite  contains all the 
information youll need to renew your policy for another year.  
If you dont have your email, please check that it has not been delivered to your spam or 
trash folder. If you cant find it, dont worry, you can renew following the instructions below.
The letter goes on to explain how to log on to More Th>ns online portal.
Ref: DRN14342692Mr N has said because he couldnt find the email he was told he wouldve received, and he 
had problems accessing the online portal, he had to call More  Th>n and was on the phone 
for over 40 minutes. He feels £100 would recognise the trouble and upset this has caused.
I agree  with our investigator that the letter couldve been clearer.  And I can understand why 
Mr N was frustrated when  he checked  his email account and couldnt  find the email More  
Th>n had said it had sent. But the letter also explains that Mr N couldve  logged into the 
online customer portal to check his renewal documents or called it if he had any queries and 
problems. And as he couldnt access  his online portal he called More Th>n. 
Im satisfied that a written  apology is sufficient in this case. Im not aware of the problems Mr 
N had when trying to access the online  portal before deciding not to renew his policy. Having 
looked at the online  portal Ive seen a customer  would need their email address and 
password to access it. It goes on to explain what a customer would need to do if they didnt 
remember either of these pieces of information. But if I accept  he did have trouble accessing  
it I still think a written  apology is appropriate.  This is because he still wouldve had to call 
More Th>n  to discuss his renewal, which is ultimately what  he did.
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint against Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1434269