K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says HSBC  Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M bought the single premium policy when she took out a loan in 1998. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs M says the loan and policy were  sold during  a telephone call. HSBC cant  tell us how the 
policy was sold, so without any conflicting  information, Ive considered this as a sale 
conducted during  a call. 
However the policy was sold, HSBC shouldve taken reasonable steps  to make Mrs M aware 
she had a choice  about buying the PPI. Mrs M says she wasnt aware the policy  was 
optional or that it had been added to her loan. 
As I dont know exactly what Mrs M was told when she bought the policy,  Ive thought  about  
Mrs Ms comments alongside the limited documents HSBC has been able to provide. Ive 
also considered  what I know about  the way HSBC sold these policies in general, to decide 
whats most likely  to have happened. 
Although HSBC cant give me a copy of Mrs Ms loan agreement,  it has given me a copy  of 
the type of agreement it was using at the time.  This sets out the cost of the PPI under the 
heading Credit Protection Insurance Loan. I think its likely Mrs M wouldve seen this. I also 
think Mrs M wouldve seen that there  was extra cost for the PPI (which was shown  
separately on the agreement). There is also a separate box which is headed as Credit 
Protection Insurance where it says I/We have decided to take Personal Loan  Protection. 
Mrs M wouldve had a chance to read this document before signing it, so I think  she would 
have had chance to question anything  she wasnt  sure about or hadnt agreed  to before 
agreeing to its contents.
 
Overall, I think its more  likely than not that HSBC made it clear this was an optional  policy  
and Mrs M chose to buy it  although I can understand why she doesnt remember  this.
Mrs M says HSBC  recommend the policy to her. HSBC says it doesnt know if the sale was 
recommended or not. But I dont think it matters whether the policy  was recommend or not 
because I think it was right for Mrs M based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time. I say this because:
Ref: DRN18167042Mrs M was eligible for cover under the policy. And there doesnt seem  to be any 
reason why she wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim  such  as a 
previous health  issue  or any unusual working  patterns. 
Mrs M says she wouldve received between six months full sick pay from her 
employer. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI wouldve covered her loan 
repayments for 12 months if she became unemployed and potentially  to the end of 
the loan if she was unable to work due to sickness or an accident. This wouldve 
been in addition to any other means  she had to make her repayments.  
Mrs M says she is unhappy with the cost of the policy and had she known how much 
it was she would  never have agreed  to take the policy out. Looking at the way the 
costs were explained on the sample  loan agreement Ive been given, the costs 
associated with the policy were shown. So I think Mrs M wouldve been aware of 
these costs. And there is nothing to suggest  in what Ive been given that these costs 
were unaffordable  for her. 
Mrs M wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if she cancelled  the policy 
early. I dont  know if HSBC thought about this when  it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs M. But I havent seen anything to suggest  she thought 
shed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for her  or that 
better information about this wouldve stopped  her buying it.
I think its possible HSBC didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But  as Ive 
mentioned above  - Mrs M doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of those  things. So 
even if HSBC had given Mrs M clearer information  about the policy, I still think  she wouldve 
taken it. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mrs M has lost out because  of anything HSBC  
mightve done wrong. 
I know Mrs M feels strongly and will be disappointed  by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised, but for 
the reasons explained above, these points  dont change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1816704