K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he didnt receive the correct promotional  gift card when he took out a 
credit card with NewDay Ltd.
background
On 3 May 2019  Mr M applied for a credit card though an advert on a retailers website. It 
said that hed receive  a £30 gift card to spend  with that retailer if his application was 
accepted.
His application was accepted. But when he went to pay for his goods on the retailers  
website only a £10 gift card was applied at the checkout. Mr M has told us he was looking to 
spend under  £30 and anticipated that hed receive his goods and be left with a credit  on the 
gift card.  But instead feels he was induced to borrow money at an APR of 21.9% by making 
his purchase on the credit  card, which  he hadnt set out to do.
Mr M initially complained to the retailer, who directed him to take the matter up with NewDay. 
NewDay said that itd checked the website, but could only see an offer to receive a £10 gift 
card. It asked Mr M to send it proof  of the advert for a £30 gift card so that it could look into 
this further for him.  
In the interim the retailer admitted it had made a mistake. And on 24 May 2019 it credited 
Mr M with a £20 gift card. 
Mr M sent NewDay  a copy of the promotion hed seen. And NewDay sent him a further letter 
upholding his complaint and credited his credit  card account with £10 as an apology. It said 
the £30 gift card offer had been sent to him by the retailer direct which it why it hadnt initially  
been aware of it. And that it was sorry for the inconvenience caused.
Mr M argues that he had a debt of £20.69  to pay on this credit card. And he wants NewDay 
to write this off and pay him £25 compensation  for the trouble and inconvenience hes 
experienced. 
Our investigator noted the retailer had taken  steps  to put things  right. And felt it was clear  
from Mr Ms testimony  that hed been aware  of the balance hed have to pay before he 
purchased his goods. So she thought NewDays gesture was fair. 
Mr M didnt  agree, so the case has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this was a very frustrating experience for Mr M. He applied  for this credit  card on 
the basis that hed receive  a £30 gift card which he wanted to use to purchase some  goods. 
Instead he only received a £10 gift card and used his credit  card to pay the remainder of the 
cost.
NewDay has admitted  something  went wrong  here.  What Ive been asked to decide is 
whether its has done enough to put things right for Mr M.
Ref: DRN17314402The retailer  has given Mr M a £20 gift card to make up for the fact he initially  received one 
for £10 rather than £30. And NewDay has credited Mr Ms credit card account  with £10 
compensation for what happened.
Mr M has asked  NewDay  to reimburse  him the £20.69 he spent  on his purchases. He feels 
the promotional  offer he saw induced him to spend this money and incur a debt on his credit  
card.  
I understand why hes disappointed that he had to spend this money to complete his 
purchases - which appear to have been  made over two separate  transactions.  But like our 
investigator I think it would have been clear  when he did that the amount  due wasnt covered 
by the gift card. And that there was a balance to pay. If he wasnt  comfortable  making  this 
payment, Mr M could have chosen  not to go ahead with these purchases at this time. So Im 
afraid I dont agree that he was left with no option but to incur a debt a result of NewDays  
actions. 
Furthermore I can see that the £20.69  he spent  on his credit card was paid off by a 
combination of payments from himself and the credit he was given by NewDay.  And that he 
didnt incur any interest on this amount. So I havent seen anything to suggest this incident  
caused him any further financial loss. 
I can also see from his credit  card statements that Mr M has made further purchases with 
the same  retailer since this incident. So I dont  think that hes ultimately lost out by receiving 
the missing gift card credit as a further  gift card. And Im satisfied that hes already been 
restored to the financial position  he would  have been in had the mistake not been made. So I 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask NewDay to also reimburse him the money  he spent.
I dont doubt this incident has caused  Mr M inconvenience. And I can see he feels  very 
strongly about what happened. But NewDay has apologised  and recognised this with its 
compensatory payment of £10. And overall, considering the impact  of whats happened, I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require NewDay Ltd to do anything further to resolve  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1731440