K820x#14Complaint
Ms S complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly blocked and closed 
her account.  She says this caused  significant  distress and inconvenience. She wants Halifax  
to provide an explanation  for its actions.  And pay compensation for the trouble and upset 
shes suffered.
Background
Ms S had a current and savings account with Halifax.
In January 2019, Halifax blocked Ms Ss account.  This meant Ms S couldnt access  any 
money in the account. And no payments could  be made  from the account. Halifax removed 
the block from the account on 14 February 2019.
On 18 February 2019, Halifax  wrote  to Ms S to let her know it had decided  to close her 
account. And it gave  her 65 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements.
Ms S says she discovered her account  was blocked  whilst  she was abroad  when  she tried to 
access her account. She says she contacted  Halifax on several occasions to find out why 
she couldnt access her account. But Halifax wouldnt give her a proper explanation for its 
actions. Ms S says as a result of the blocks she was left without access to any money for 
several weeks and couldnt  pay her bills. She says her mortgage fell into arrears and she 
suffered a great  deal of stress and anxiety. And her credit history has been adversely 
affected. 
Ms S complained to Halifax and said it had breached  the terms and conditions of its contract.  
She said Halifax hadnt explained the reasons why it blocked and then closed her account.  
And it had treated her unfairly  by not giving  her an opportunity to provide  any information 
about what she believed  led to the bank  blocking  her account.
Halifax said its not obliged to enter  into any discussion  with Ms S to explain its decision to 
block and then close her account. And says it acted in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of Ms Ss account. Unhappy with this response Ms S brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator explained Halifax werent  required to provide their reasons for the block  and 
closure of her account. She was satisfied Halifax had acted fairly and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  And that Halifax had followed  its legal  and regulatory  
obligations when  it blocked and reviewed  the account. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms S disagreed. Shes still upset  that Halifax blocked and closed  her account without 
explanation. She says this caused him a great deal of anxiety and inconvenience. She wants  
Halifax to provide a full explanation, apologise  and pay her compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13386572Ill start by setting out some context for the block of Ms Ss account. Anti-money laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive  obligations on regulated  financial businesses  
to have suitable systems  in place for customer identification. Financial institutions  must also 
establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the origin  of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships 
Halifax has said that Ms Ss account  were blocked to meet  these legal requirements.
Its clear from what Ms S has told us and the bank  that she feels  very strongly  about  her 
complaint. I understand Ms S is upset that Halifax blocked and closed her account. And that 
this has caused  her inconvenience. 
Ms S says she hasnt  done anything which would cause Halifax  to block her account.  And 
she has been the victim of a malicious  allegation. That may well be the case. But as Ive 
already explained businesses have  a legal obligation to comply with various laws and 
regulations. The terms and conditions that apply to Ms Ss account  also outline the 
circumstances in which Halifax  can block an account. And having considered those terms 
carefully, and the circumstances of this case,  Im satisfied Halifax acted in line with them. So, 
I cant say Halifax did anything wrong when it blocked Ms Ss account.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Halifax  and Ms S had to comply with  
say that it could close the account by giving her 60 days notice. Halifax  has done this. So, 
its entitled to close  the account as it seems its already done.
I know Ms S is frustrated  that she hasnt been given  a proper explanation why her account 
was blocked and then closed. But under the terms and conditions Halifax doesnt  have to 
give a reason. So, I cant say Halifax has done  anything wrong by not giving Ms S this 
information  as much as shed like to know.
Ms S says Halifax has breached its contract  with her. But as Ive explained Halifax  is entitled 
to block and close the account.  In other  words,  there  has been no breach of contract 
because Halifax has acted in accordance  with the account terms and conditions.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Ms S feels about whats  happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  and upsetting time.  But overall,  based on the evidence  I have, I cant say 
Halifax have acted unreasonably and treated Ms S unfairly when it blocked and closed her 
account. So, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything.
Ms S is also unhappy that when Halifax provided  her with its final response to her complaint 
it said Ms S was happy  with the outcome  of its investigation into her complaint. And that the 
matter had been resolved, so its records are incorrect. Its clear  this wasnt  the case. And 
Ms S was still very unhappy  with Halifaxs  explanation. 
However, I can see that in the letter correctly provided Ms S with referral rights  to our 
service, if she wasnt happy with what Halifax had said.  And once Ms S had come to our 
service, we then made Halifax aware  that Ms S didnt accept the outcome. So, Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN13386573that Halifaxs records now show Ms S wasnt happy  with the outcome. And I wont  be asking 
Halifax to do anything  further.
In conclusion, I know my decision will come as a great frustration and disappointment  to 
Ms S. Ms S is entitled to reject my decision. If she does reject  it then it is not binding  on her 
or Halifax. And it is then open to her to raise these issues  in any legal proceedings should 
she choose to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1338657