K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complained that esure Insurance Limited unfairly refused to pay his motor insurance 
claim after his car was stolen.
background
Mr H discovered  his car had been  stolen from outside his place of work.  He reported the 
theft to the police and claimed  on his policy. He told esure his keys had also been  taken but 
he didnt know what had happened to them.
esure refused to pay Mr Hs claim. It said hed told the police it was likely  hed left his keys in 
the car. And the policy  says it wont  pay a claim for theft when the keys have been  left in the 
car.
Mr H didnt think this was fair as he said he didnt know  what had happened to the keys. He 
said hed only guessed  at what might have happened when he called the police and 
someone might have taken them from his jacket  pocket at work. He brought  his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator didnt  think esure had shown it was most likely Mr H had left his keys in the 
car. So he recommended esure pay Mr Hs claim plus interest on the money hed paid to the 
finance company.  esure didnt agree. It thought it was unlikely the keys had been stolen from 
Mr Hs place of work  and said he hadnt  committed to exactly  what  happened when locking 
his car. It also asked if wed looked  into the details of how likely the key was to have been 
stolen from Mr Hs jacket. esure still thought it was right for it to have turned down Mr Hs 
claim so asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Hs policy say theft isnt covered if the key is left in or on the 
car. For esure  to rely on this term to turn down Mr Hs claim it needs to show  its most likely 
thats what happened. I dont think its done  that and Ill explain my reasons for that. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr H and esure. Mr H said to the best of his knowledge he 
locked the car and put the keys in his jacket pocket.  He said the car locked by pressing a 
button on the key fob. He also explained  that the car has lights  that come on and go off after 
a few seconds. esure asked Mr H how he thought  the car was taken and he said he didnt 
know. Its clear  from the call that Mr H didnt know how his keys had gone missing and didnt 
say hed left them in the car. 
The police report completed shortly after the theft says Mr H thought  the most likely 
explanation was that hed left the keys in or near the car and someone had taken it as a 
result. 
While Mr H said he might  have left the keys in the car he also said he might have left them 
near the car. The policy doesnt exclude thefts where the key has been  left near the car only 
in or on it. The police report also doesnt say Mr H did leave his keys in or near the car only 
that he thought  it was the most likely  explanation. 
Ref: DRN10145752Mr H said when thinking about it later he realised he would have locked  the car as its 
something he does  automatically. He said his explanation to the police was just a guess at 
what might  have happened.  He said the car also had lights  that come on for a few seconds  
when its dark and the radio stays on if the keys left in the ignition. 
Im satisfied Mr H has no idea how he either lost his keys or they were taken. I dont find it 
unusual that he didnt remember exactly what had happened when he left the car, as locking 
it was something he did automatically. I think its likely he would have noticed the lights 
hadnt come  on if he hadnt locked the car and would have noticed  the radio if the key was 
left in the ignition. In one call Mr H said he didnt  think hed dropped the keys as he didnt 
hear them land on the floor. But hes also said he gets out of his car on grass  so I think  its 
less likely there would have been  a noise to alert him to having dropped them.  I also dont 
think its fair and reasonable for esure  to have  chosen to rely on one of Mr Hs explanations 
to the police when the other explanation that he could  have left the keys near the car could 
also have been  the case. 
esure asked  if wed looked  into whether Mr Hs workplace had carried  out an investigation 
into whether his keys could have been  stolen from there. I dont think  I need  to do this as its 
for esure to show its most likely the keys were left in the car. 
I dont think esure has shown its most likely  Mr H left his keys in the car. So I think the fair 
and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint is for esure to pay his claim subject to 
the limits  and excesses  on the policy. If this results in a cash  payment to Mr H esure should 
add interest to that amount at rate of 8% simple  per year from the date of the theft to the 
date it makes payment.  If there isnt a cash payment  to Mr H esure should pay interest  at 8% 
simple per year on the amount hes paid to the finance company from the date of the theft to 
the date it makes payment. This is because Mr Hs been without money he should have had. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require esure  Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr Hs claim subject to any limits  or excesses on the policy. If this results  in a cash  payment 
to Mr H esure should add interest to that amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date of the theft to the date it makes payment. If there isnt a cash  payment to Mr H esure 
should pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on the amount hes paid to the finance  
company from the date of the theft to the date it makes payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1014575