K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc (RBS) has committed a data breach, by 
mistakenly divulging the account balance from his personal account to his wife. He is 
unhappy because  the data breach undermined  the trust between him and his wife, which  he 
says has led to him suffering stress and marital difficulties.
background
Mr G holds two shared RBS current accounts with his wife. He also has a sole account with 
RBS which  contains  a substantial sum of money that he inherited  and which  he never  told 
his wife about.
In November 2018 Mr Gs wife went into their local RBS branch to open a new sole account. 
Mr G says that while his wife was in the branch, there was a breach of data protection  which  
resulted in her being made  aware  of the personal account he held,  and of the balance  on 
that account.
His wife later confronted  him with this information  which led to a heated argument. She left 
the marital home for a few days and, though she later returned,  theres  now a lack of trust 
between them which hes attempting to rebuild. He describes  the stress caused  by this 
incident as severe,  saying  its nearly cost him his marriage. He stresses theres  been a 
significant impact not just on him, but on his family as a whole. 
Mr G made  a formal complaint to RBS and there was an investigation. The RBS adviser who 
spoke to Mr Gs wife at the branch was unable  to recall any potential  data breach occurring; 
however she apologised if she had inadvertently divulged any private information. As a result 
RBS issued a written apology and stated  it agreed  with Mr Gs complaint. It offered £250  
compensation which Mr G declined, saying the amount is too low. He said it doesnt  reflect 
the level of distress caused to him and to his family.
 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and agreed with RBSs  conclusions and with 
the amount of compensation offered. Mr G didnt  agree with our investigators  view.
This matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont know for certain what happened in the branch  when Mr Gs wife went  in to discuss  
opening an account with RBS. Mr G believes his wife was shown his private banking 
information on a computer monitor, which is how she found out about the information hed 
chosen not to share with her. RBS initially agreed a mistake may have occurred in branch, 
but it has since provided information  to suggest the branch adviser  only accessed Mr Gs 
account details  after Mrs G left the branch. Even so, the staff member who dealt with Mr Gs 
wife couldnt be sure what happened, and I acknowledge its possible RBS inadvertently  
provided this information  to Mr Gs wife without his consent.
Ref: DRN14436502Either way, RBS has said it is prepared  to give Mr G the benefit of the doubt  in this case  and 
to offer £250 by way of compensation. What I now need to decide is whether RBS offer 
reasonably reflects  the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr G.
I acknowledge its likely  Mr G has been  caused  distress as a result of this issue and that this 
has caused him difficulties in his personal life and his relationship with his wife. Whilst I 
appreciate the trigger for these difficulties was the fact his wife discovered details about his 
personal bank  account,  the chain of events  which  resulted from this issue  cant  in my view 
be attributed entirely to the bank.  I must  adopt a proportionate and reasonable approach 
when assessing  the impact  of any error  on the part of RBS.  Im also only able to take into 
account the distress  and inconvenience that was caused directly to Mr G, and not the other  
members of his family.
Taking all of this into account,  and having  regard to the general  level of awards  we make,  Im 
satisfied RBS offer to award £250 is fair compensation  to reflect  the impact this has had on 
Mr G.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc should pay Mr G a sum of £250  in 
compensation in respect of the trouble and upset which he has been caused in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1443650