K820x#14complaint
Ms H and Mr H complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  when  they took out a mortgage  in 2007. 
Santander merged  with the business that Ms H and Mr H dealt with originally when taking 
out this mortgage and it is responsible  for dealing with their complaint. So Ill just refer to 
Santander in my decision.  
background
The mortgage was in joint names and both Ms H and Mr H were covered by the PPI. The 
policy provided them with cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment.
This complaint was looked at by an adjudicator  who didnt think  it should be upheld.  
Ms H and Mr H didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings. They mainly complain that the 
advisor didnt make  it clear that PPI wasnt needed  and told us that they took out the PPI 
because they thought  they had to. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms H and Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
Theres no recording of the phone call when Santander sold the PPI to Ms H and Mr H. And 
it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Ms H and Mr H to remember  precisely what was 
discussed at the time. This means  that what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  this mis-sale complaint.  I must take into account all the information Ive got 
and the wider circumstances when deciding  what I think is most likely.   
Despite what Ms H and Mr H say, I think its likely  that Santander made them aware  that PPI 
was optional at the time  even if theyve  forgotten this now.  I say this because  Ive seen 
some paperwork  which shows that Ms H and Mr H spoke to an advisor about their financial 
circumstances when  applying for their mortgage. And I can see that Santander wrote  to 
them shortly  afterwards to say that it recommended  an Abbey Paymentcare  policy  (this was 
what Santander called its PPI) to cover their mortgage monthly  repayments  in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment 
Ive also seen their mortgage  offer and theres  nothing mentioned there  that I think  wouldve 
made Ms H and Mr H think that they had to have PPI. This says that Ms H and Mr H werent 
required to take out any insurance  through the lender. And the only insurance they had to 
have wasnt PPI. 
Ref: DRN17143662I accept that all this doesnt  prove definitely  that Ms H and Mr H knew  they had a choice 
about PPI. And I dont  know  what was discussed during the call with the advisor about PPI. 
But, on balance, I think the paperwork Ive seen is sufficient to show that Santander gave 
Ms H and Mr H enough information  to make them aware that they couldve taken their 
mortgage without  PPI if either of them hadnt  wanted  to have the cover.
Overall, I find that Santander  did do enough to make Ms H and Mr H aware that the PPI was 
optional. And it was added to their account when  they indicated  they wanted to have it.
Santander advised Ms H and Mr H to take out the policy. So it had to make  sure this was a 
suitable recommendation for both of them, as well as giving them clear information so they 
could decide if they wanted to take it out.
Looked at overall, PPI seems to have been  right for Ms H and Mr H based  on what Ive seen 
of their joint circumstances at the time.  The policy covered Ms H and Mr H for accident, 
sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months  per claim and repeat claims were possible. 
Ms H wouldve  got at least six months sick pay if she was off work. But PPI wouldve paid 
out on top of any work benefits  and provided  cover for the lifetime of the mortgage - as long 
as Ms H and Mr H kept paying  the premiums. 
I dont know if Ms H and Mr H wouldve  always had savings they could rely on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. PPI wouldve covered their mortgage for longer than their savings  
wouldve lasted if theyd  had to use these to make  their monthly repayments. And having PPI 
wouldve meant they could keep their savings intact to provide financial security for the 
future. 
So I think the policy was suitable for Ms H and Mr H and the way the benefit was shared 
between them seems  reasonable.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Ms H and Mr H were 
affected by any of the usual conditions limiting the policys main benefits.  So, I dont think  
having more information about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve affected their decision 
to take it out.
PPI offered  Ms H and Mr H protection and peace  of mind that their mortgage payments were  
covered in the event that they couldnt work. Their mortgage was a major  financial 
commitment and their home  wouldve  been  at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. I dont know  what  Santander  told them about the policy costs. Its possible that 
Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better. But Ive seen nothing that 
suggests to me that paying for the PPI caused  Ms H and Mr H any money problems. And 
theyve always been able to cancel the policy at any time, at no extra cost, if they no longer 
want to pay for it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Ms H and Mr H still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been  better  informed 
as the policy  gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think better  
information wouldve  stopped them buying it.
So, it doesnt look as if Ms H and Mr H have lost out as a result of anything  Santander 
mightve done wrong. This means  it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN17143663my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1714366