K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 2007 Mr and Mrs J applied for a re-mortgage with YBS. This appears to have been carried  
out by postal application through its Direct mortgage service.  At the same time they also 
took out PPI designed to protect  their payments in the event either of them was off work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy benefit  (just under £600 a month)  was split approximately  60/40 in favour  of Mr J 
 he was the higher income earner  - and the policy cost just under £30 a month.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. They said that the mortgage application from the time 
referred to Mr J as having had a recent  accident  at work which required him to take time off 
work. And this was leading up to the point they applied for their new mortgage. They said 
that the policy excluded existing conditions  or injuries known at the time, but there  wasnt 
enough evidence  to show Mr and Mrs J were clearly informed about this. Given the 
circumstances, they didnt think Mr and Mrs J wouldve taken the policy  out had they been 
properly informed.
YBS disagrees  it summary it considers Mr and Mrs J did have all the information they 
needed to understand the policy including the existing medical condition  exclusion.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
This was a non-advised sale  Ive seen no evidence to suggest  YBS provided advice and 
made a personal  recommendation  to Mr and Mrs J. So YBS didnt have to ensure PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs J  but it did have to give them enough  clear  and timely information 
about the policy so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.  Ive kept this in 
mind in deciding  this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ive set out my reasoning below.
YBS has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Js mortgage application. And here I can see Mrs J 
(she appears to have  completed the application) made reference to Mr J having  recently  
been off work following  an accident  at work  Mr and Mrs J disclosed this information to 
explain their most recent financial  situation.
Ref: DRN17950802Mr J has given us more  information about  his accident including  when it happened; the 
resulting injury; and the treatment he received. This information has been  shared with YBS 
and it doesnt  appear to be disputed,  so I dont intend to set this all out here. But suffice  it to 
say that Mr Js injury happened  in the weeks leading up to Mr and Mrs J taking out PPI and 
so was it was something he knew about  at the policy  start date.
what did the policy  say about existing medical conditions / injury?
YBS has provided a copy of the policy terms which applied to Mr and Mrs J. In section  11 of 
this document  it says:
Disability benefit will not be paid:  if the disabilityis arising from any medical condition,  
injury, illness,  disease,  sickness  or related medical  condition and/or associated  symptoms, 
whether diagnosed or not which  you:
knew about or should reasonably have  known about at the start date; or
have seen or arranged to see a doctor  about  during the 12 months immediately preceding     
the start date;
and which  recurs within 24 months  after the start date.
This was a significant  exclusion   so YBS shouldve clearly brought  this to Mr and Mrs Js 
attention to allow them to decide  if the policy was right for them.
did YBS properly inform Mr and Mrs J and highlight this significant term?
I can see that YBS says that based  on the documentation its provided it believes  Mr and 
Mrs J were given  full information about the policy including  the pre-existing medical condition 
exclusion. And it appears to me that its primarily relying on the mortgage  offer letter to have 
satisfied this.
But for the following reasons I dont think YBS did clearly and fairly draw  this significant 
exclusion to Mr and Mrs Js attention. 
Firstly  the mortgage application form Mr and Mrs J completed had a separate  section 
about insurance, which included PPI. Here  it described the basic nature of the policy  and it 
gave them the option to take it out, which they did by putting  a cross in the appropriate box ( 
so Im satisfied they agreed to PPI knowing  they had a choice in the matter.)
But other than setting out the basic nature of the policy,  there  was nothing here about the 
significant exclusions to or limits  on the cover. And there was also no reference  here to 
where Mr and Mrs J could  find out more and why they should  find out more  for example a 
policy summary or policy document. But this was the point they were asked and agreed to 
take out PPI, so I wouldve  expected  them to have  been given the information they needed  
at this point.
As I said above, YBS says the details about  the exclusion  were set out in the mortgage offer 
letter. And I can see that on pages 10 and 11 of this 13 page document  details of Mr and 
Mrs Js PPI were  set out including a reference  to pre-existing medical conditions and a 
reference to a section in the policy document.
Ref: DRN17950803But the reference was contained  within the fifth bullet point of a seven bullet point list and in 
my view there was nothing which made it stand out; the covering letter with the offer letter 
attached didnt say anything about  PPI or the importance of reading  certain  material; and at 
this stage I dont  think  Mr and Mrs J - having already agreed to PPI  wouldve been  looking 
for this kind of information.
Its not clear at what stage  Mr and Mrs J were given  a full policy  document. But in any event 
the policy document itself didnt highlight the significant exclusions for disability claims  
these were on page 16 of this document. 
It was YBS  responsibility  to clearly draw  this kind of information to Mr and Mrs Js attention 
 it wasnt Mr and Mrs Js responsibility  to go and look for it. Besides theres  nothing  to 
indicate they had sufficient knowledge  to know to go and look for it. And just because Mr J 
had very recently  suffered  an injury  doesnt in and of itself mean he might  have known or 
thought that the policy contained  exclusions for these  things.
So based  on the evidence presented in this particular case,  I dont think  YBS acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs J  it didnt provide them with clear,  fair and timely 
information about the policy theyd  decided to take out.
why I think this mattered  to Mr and Mrs J
Ive already said that Mr J had recently suffered and was still recovering from an injury 
sustained at work. So he was caught  by the significant exclusion around claiming disability 
benefit for his injury  or any associated symptoms.
I also this think this exclusion was important and wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs J. I say 
this because:
Mr Js age at the time.
his particular occupation  the nature of his work was manual so his injury  wouldve 
directly impacted his ability to do his job.
hed only just had treatment  I dont think hed have thought at this early  stage in his 
recovery that it wouldnt cause him ongoing problems in the near term; particularly 
given his age and occupation.
the extent of the exclusion meant that associated  symptoms were caught.
Ive thought about the fact that the exclusion was time limited   if appears Mr J couldve 
claimed for his injury or things related  to it after 24 months. But for the reasons Ive given 
above about Mr Js individual  circumstances, I dont think this part of the term means Mr and 
Mrs J wouldve placed less weight  and importance  on the exclusion.
Overall I think  this exclusion  information  at this particular time wouldve mattered to Mr and 
Mrs J such that had they been properly informed, I dont think  its more likely than not that 
theyd have still gone ahead and taken  the policy out. 
While Im mindful that on the face of it Mr and Mrs J had a need for the policy, I think its 
likely their choice to have  cover was primarily driven by Mr Js recent period of time off work. 
But I think they wouldve  thought at this particular time that the likelihood  of Mr J being off 
work again because of his injury was high.  
Ref: DRN17950804So had they been properly informed  about  the significant  exclusions and then weighed  up 
whether the cost and benefit  proposition of the policy worked  for them, I think  its likely  theyd 
have decided on balance  that it didnt and they wouldnt  have  gone  ahead and taken out the 
policy. 
It follows that I find Mr and Mrs J have lost out and so YBS needs to put things right.
putting things right
YBS should  put Mr and Mrs J in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand the policy is cancelled, so YBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs J the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year
If Mr and Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, YBS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must give Mr 
and Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided that Mr and Mrs J have lost out as a result  of taking out 
PPI with their mortgage. So to put things right Yorkshire Building Society should compensate 
Mr and Mrs J in line with the formula detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1795080