K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt treated her fairly  over problems with 
her mortgage. In particular, she says it misled her about court  proceedings and what would  
need to be done to avoid  them,  and didnt communicate well with her. 
background 
Miss C took out her mortgage some  years ago. She owns  her property via shared 
ownership. She has a mortgage over the owned  part, and pays  rent to a housing association 
for the other  part.
Over the years Miss C has been in and out of arrears  on her mortgage  and the associated  
mortgage current account (MCA). 
She has also missed a substantial number  of rent payments to the housing association.  
Several times the housing  association has decided to take legal proceedings to forfeit  her 
lease because of the rent arrears, and each time before doing  so it has written  to Barclays. 
Barclays has then paid the outstanding rent and added  it to the mortgage balance.
Barclays decided that the arrears  had reached the stage where it should start to take its own 
legal proceedings. It had sent a field agent  out to discuss the mortgage with Miss C, but no 
agreement could be reached  Barclays said Miss Cs proposals  were unaffordable.
Miss C rang Barclays to ask about having  the legal proceedings stopped. Barclays  told her 
that it would  stop the proceedings if she cleared the payment  arrears,  and she made a 
payment. 
After a review of the account Barclays decided to resume the legal proceedings, this time 
based not on arrears,  but based on breach of contract   in that Miss C had repeatedly  
endangered its security  by not paying the rent to the housing association. The case  went to 
court and a possession  order was issued.
Miss C said she hadnt been  aware of the possession  proceedings, and had though  
following the earlier conversation with Barclays  that they had been withdrawn. She applied 
to the court  to set aside  the possession order. The court refused to set aside the order,  but 
suspended it on condition that Miss C made  a lump sum payment, then maintained her 
monthly payment  plus a contribution to the arrears  that had built back up, the overdraft on 
the MCA and the rent Barclays had paid on her behalf.
Miss C complained that Barclays  had misled her about  what was happening  with the 
proceedings and hadnt  told her that they would continue. She said its communication was 
poor and it didnt understand shared ownership.
Barclays offered £100 compensation and sent Miss C a hamper for misleading her about  
whether the proceedings  would go ahead.  Our investigator said that should  be increased  to 
£250. Barclays agreed to that, but Miss C asked for an ombudsman  to review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN15495312Miss C has been in financial difficulty for several  years. Her problems in paying  the rent to 
the housing association go back at least to 2010, and Barclays has had to pay the rent on 
her behalf  several  times since then.
Shared ownership means that Miss C only owns a share of her property;  the housing  
association owns the other part, and charges her rent. If Miss C doesnt pay the rent, the 
housing association can take possession proceedings  to evict her  and if that happened, 
she would  lose the part she owns  too. And Barclays would no longer have security for the 
mortgage debt.  
Its therefore in the mortgage terms and conditions that Miss C must  pay the rent as well as 
the mortgage. When she didnt, it was reasonable for Barclays  to pay it on her behalf to 
prevent the property  being repossessed by the housing association   once it was satisfied 
that was a real risk. 
Separately, Miss C was also in arrears on her mortgage for a long time. Barclays had tried to 
come to an arrangement  to get the mortgage back on track, but no affordable arrangement 
could be agreed.  And there  were several  periods when Miss C paid nothing at all.
Barclays therefore started legal proceedings, firstly  in relation to the mortgage arrears. But 
even once Miss C cleared  the arrears, it continued  the proceedings  this time on the basis 
that she was in breach of contract by repeatedly not paying the rent, and as a result of 
Barclays paying it for her the mortgage  debt had increased.
A court found that Miss C was indeed in breach  of contract, and it was reasonable for 
Barclays to take possession of the property  but also that it couldnt  do so while  Miss C 
made her mortgage payments, and additional payments to reduce  the money Barclays  had 
paid out on her behalf. 
A court has therefore found that Barclays was entitled to possession, and entitled  to take 
possession proceedings. Its not for me to go behind the court order  and say that it shouldnt 
have done so.
However, I do think Barclays could have handled this better. Its clear it had two separate  
concerns, each separately entitling  it to take proceedings.  The first was the arrears on the 
mortgage; the second was the failure to pay the rent, endangering Barclays security  and 
increasing its debt.
Barclays shouldnt therefore have told Miss C that clearing the arrears would have brought 
the proceedings to an end, when that would only deal with its first concern. To that extent,  
she was misled, and given a false sense of reassurance  that she wouldnt have to go to 
court.
However, as Ive said I cant say Barclays was unreasonable in continuing  with the 
proceedings. And I dont think it failed to keep  Miss C informed of what  was happening. It 
wrote to her repeatedly, but its correspondence  was returned. The court  would also have 
written to her  it may be, I dont  know, that that correspondence didnt get through.
Miss C has said at one point that there  was a problem with the letter box at her property so 
her post was being returned to sender. But that wasnt Barclays  fault.  Unless  she told it to 
Ref: DRN15495313write to a different address  and theres no evidence she did  it did the right thing in writing  
to the address it had. It wasnt responsible for Miss C not receiving it.  
Overall, therefore, I do think Barclays could have done more  to make sure it was clear about  
what was happening with the possession  proceedings. But I dont think  the proceedings 
themselves were unreasonable, or that Barclays failed to write to her telling her about the 
court case. Taking everything into account, I agree a further £150 compensation is fair in all 
the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss C £150  compensation,  in addition to the £100 it has 
already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1549531