K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about a life and critical illness policy he took out with HSBC UK Bank  
Plc. He has said he had no need  for the policy but he was told he had to take it. He also 
feels it was unfair the policy couldnt be in joint names with his wife and also says that no 
policy exclusions were explained  to him.
background
In early 2005, Mr H and his wife met with HSBC to review their mortgage  lending and 
protection needs. They were taking on a business  loan of £120,000 repayable  over fifteen 
years.
They already  had some commercial borrowing  in place  along with a protection  policy 
specifically for that borrowing.
They took out a level term assurance policy for the amount of the borrowing, £120,000 but 
for term of thirteen years  rather than that of the loan which was fifteen years.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it should  be upheld.  She 
felt the policy should have been  set up on a decreasing basis for the full term of the loan 
rather than a level term basis over thirteen years.  She didnt feel the explanation in the point 
of sale documentation was sufficient to conclude Mr H had known the difference. So she felt 
Mr H had been disadvantaged by this. She therefore  asked HSBC to compare the costs of 
the policy sold to that of a suitable one and if the suitable policy  was cheaper than the one 
sold HSBC should pay that difference, plus interest  to Mr H.
HSBC didnt agree with the assessment and felt the reasons why the level term assurance  
policy for thirteen years had been  sold instead of a decreasing  term assurance  policy  for 
fifteen years,  had been sufficiently explained  in the point of sale documentation and it felt 
Mr H was fully aware  of this and was fully in agreement with it.
I issued my provisional findings in March 2019 where I set out why I disagreed with the 
outcome reached  by the investigator  and why I felt the complaint couldnt be upheld. An 
extract is below and forms part of this decision:
I can see Mr H has brought  his complaint initially on the basis  that he thought the policy  was 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy and despite what HSBC  has said,  he isnt 
convinced this isnt the case.
To clarify,  the policy being complained about is not a PPI policy. PPI is designed to cover  the 
regular repayments  of any type of borrowing  over the course of a period of time (usually  6 
months) usually if the policy  holder  is unable  to work for some time due to unemployment or 
sickness. This benefit stops  after a while and the regular repayments  have  to be continued if 
the borrowing  is to remain in place. However,  in contrast the term assurance and critical 
illness policy  Mr H took out is designed to pay a lump sum upon the death of the policy
holder or upon the diagnosis of a critical illness. This money could then be used to discharge 
the borrowing  in full in one lump  sum payment.
From looking  at everything that has been  provided,  I think  its likely the policy  was a 
condition of the loan Mr H and his wife were taking  out. I say this because I can see it was 
Ref: DRN13776992assigned to HSBC. This meant that any payment made under  the policy would have been 
used by HSBC  to discharge the remaining, outstanding on the loan. I know  this is one of the 
things Mr H has complained about, but if it was a condition of the lending then that is 
something HSBC is entitled to have and this Service isnt able to challenge it as a legitimate 
commercial decision.  Ultimately there is nothing wrong with this type of condition.  It is fairly 
common where business lending is concerned. And if Mr H wasnt  happy  with this, he could 
have taken the loan with another lender  where such requirement may not have existed.
Therefore, regardless of whether Mr H felt he needed the policy  or not, its likely he had to 
take it if he wanted to borrow from HSBC.
Turning now to the suitability of the policy; initially, given the loan was in joint names it would 
be usual for the policy to also be in joint names. But the reason provided  by HSBC why this 
couldnt happen seems reasonable to me. HSBC  explained that due to the ongoing  medical 
conditions Mrs H was suffering from it decided it wouldnt provide her with the cover. This is
a commercial decision and again as part of its protection  criteria  is something HSBC is 
entitled to decide  to do. Also, if there  are ongoing medical conditions then the risk of paying 
out on the policy is greater for HSBC.  So it is within its rights  to refuse  cover  to someone if 
those conditions were  such that HSBC felt the risk was too high for it to take.
Given the loan was set up on a capital repayment  basis I would expect a decreasing term 
assurance policy to have  been sold to protect  the borrowing in its entirety.  A decreasing  
policy decreases largely in line with the borrowing being paid off so the policy holder  is never  
over covered  and paying for that over cover. However, I can see the financial planning
review document  and suitability letter explained in detail that the adviser did make Mr H 
aware that a decreasing term assurance policy  was the most suitable type of cover  but it was 
Mr Hs decision  to take the level term policy. It is documented  that he said his other life 
protection polies  were  level term policies and he felt they offered more value for money.
Given these details, I am satisfied that a discussion took place regarding  the type of policy 
and HSBC made Mr H aware  of the most  suitable  policy, but it was Mr H who made the 
decision to take the level cover. Therefore, while this was a diversion from the norm this 
appears to have been Mr Hs decision.  So really all HSBC could do was to make it clear 
what the best policy was for him, which it did, and if he was insistent all it could do was what 
he asked.
Regarding the term of the cover, again the fact it was set up for two years less than the loan 
term is unusual and on first glance  this concerned me. However, again having looked  at the 
financial planning review  and suitability letter I am satisfied  that HSBC made it clear to Mr H 
that it would only provide  cover for thirteen years due to his age. This isnt unreasonable  as 
each business  has its own lending criteria. I can see, again, that HSBC made Mr H aware  of 
the risk of having the last two years of the loan not covered.  I can also see that HSBC  
referred Mr H to its private banking department where a full search  of the market  could have  
been undertaken to see if he could get a fifteen year policy  with another provider. But Mr H 
appears to have declined  this. Again it is documented  that Mr H was made aware  of the 
situation but chose to go ahead anyway. So again,  I dont  think there was anything  further  
HSBC could do but to follow  Mr Hs wishes.
Overall, the policy  sold to Mr H was a deviation from what I would  expect to see. However 
the deviation wasnt extreme to be wholly unsuitable. Also, given the detailed  notes in the 
point of sale documentation; I think HSBC made Mr H fully aware of what the most suitable 
Ref: DRN13776993policy was for him and made him aware of the risks of not taking  this but that it was Mr H 
who decided  to take something different.
HSBC confirmed it accepted my provisional findings but provided no further  comments.
Mr H provided  no response to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  comments have been provided  in response to my provisional findings  I have  no 
reason to depart from them.
Therefore, for the reasons set out above  I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in selling 
Mr H the policy it did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1377699