K822xcomplaint
Mr Ds complaint is about Gain Capital UK Limited  (trading as City Index).  He alleges:
Failings in City Indexs complaint handling process. [issue  1]
That City Index breached its Best Execution (BE) obligations in relation to 16 Margin  
Account Closeouts  (MACs) it applied to his trades in 2015. [issue 2]
That City Index unfairly applied financing fees for his short Contracts for Differences 
(CFD) positions. [issue 3]
That City Index applied unfair foreign exchange  (FX) conversion fees in his trading 
account. [issue 4]
background 
One of our adjudicators addressed the complaints  issues and she reached the following 
main conclusions:
Overall, City Index  dealt with the complaint  fairly and should  not have to do more.
City Index accepts  that it did not address  information requests from Mr D, related to 
his complaint, in a timely manner. It offered him a goodwill gesture of £500  for this. 
City Index applied  the MACs in line with the agreed terms for Mr Ds account and 
because there had been margin  breaches in each  case. Their execution, in the 
context of BE, did not operate  in the same  way as a stop order. They were executed 
manually and that took time to complete. Their  execution  was in line with the agreed 
terms for the account.
City Index also applied the financing fees within the agreed terms for the account. 
There was further explanation  of these fees (LIBOR +/- 2.5%)  on its website, 
including reference to the possibility  that they could be charged on short positions  
instead of being  earned on such positions   where the LIBOR  base rate is at an 
exceptionally low level. This practice  is not unique  to City Index. 
There is a lack of evidence about  the alleged unfair FX conversions for non-GBP 
costs, profits or losses in Mr Ds GBP based account. The agreed terms said City 
Index was entitled to pass on costs incurred  in offering FX conversions  conversions 
which were required before non-GBP amounts arising from transactions in the 
account could  be applied to the account.  In addition, it used the average of six FX 
rates feeds  from Barclays,  CNX, Deutsche Bank,  GTX London, LMAX and Morgan 
Stanley  as a reasonable proxy for the market price.
Mr D disagreed with this outcome. He sought  a hearing with this service and the regulator. 
His request was referred to an ombudsman. I was the ombudsman that addressed  it. I 
explained that the issues in the complaint, the regulations related to it and the evidence  
within it are sufficiently clear to proceed  without the sort of hearing he requested.  The merits 
of the complaint then remained to be considered by an ombudsman.  For this purpose Mr D 
made a set of final submissions to consolidate  and focus a number of his previous 
submissions. City Index also made a number of previous submissions and provided 
responses to queries  that Mr D put to it through this service.
A summary  of Mr Ds present position  is as follows:
Issue 1  City Index  has conceded  its mishandling of his complaint but he declined  its 
offer of £500.  His view is that there  is a systemic  management  policy within  City 
Index that is designed  to frustrate  complaints and to breach regulations (relevant  to 
Ref: DRN10560102record keeping and to the provision of information) in the process. This needs to be 
addressed. He declined the offer in order to allow this service to address this.
Issue 2  City Index  should not have discretion  over when and/or how MACs are 
executed, in contrast it has applied such discretion. Any terms of the account that 
support City Index in this respect  are unfair  terms and are unenforceable  because  
they are in breach of regulations. City Index is obliged to execute MACs, at the point 
a margin breach happens (not thereafter,  when it decides to accept/trigger MACs 
orders following a margin breach), as it would execute a stop order  and with the duty 
to achieve BE. It assured him of this obligation at the outset of the relevant/particular 
account in 2015.  He trusted its assurance because  he had been a longstanding client 
of City Index for many years  previously and he had not been given cause to mistrust 
it. In addition, relevant  regulation supports his position in this respect and there is no 
evidence of uncontrollable market circumstances  causing the delayed  executions of 
the MACs he has identified. 
Issue 3  City Indexs  terms  for financing fees have  the effect of charging  a customer 
multiples, in brokerage fees, of the interest due to the customer  in short  positions.  Its 
fees are not applied  as a percentage of that interest  but on top of it. This constitutes 
unfair profiteering, in breach of COBS 2.1.1  (the clients best interests rule).
Issue 4  City Index  has not proven the FX conversion costs it says it incurred and 
passed on to him under the accounts  terms. He admits he did not read the Key 
Service Features (KSF)  document for the account  which referred  to the 
conversion fees  but he reasonably relied upon the Market Information  Sheet (MIS)  
which was supposed to contain  all relevant fees and charges but did not contain  the 
FX conversion fees. He was misled into relying  on the MIS and also misled by 
contract notes which concealed the fee. In addition, there appears to be no cogent  
reason why City Indexs  quoted  FX rates could not be applied to the conversions 
without the conversion fees.
City Indexs submissions included specific and detailed responses to a number of specific  
queries made by Mr D (related to his key arguments summarised above). It also provided  
explanations about its process for MACs (including  in the context of BE), some of which      
Mr D considered insufficient. Overall, its position on the complaint issues  is broadly similar to 
the points made by the adjudicator in her view (and summarised above).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issue 1
The matter  of City Indexs  handling of Mr Ds complaint has been addressed   and, it 
appears, resolved  by City Index  and by its offer to Mr D. Mr D retains  discretion on whether 
(or not) he accepts the offer,  but I do not consider  it a matter for me to determine further. 
This service can sometimes consider awards  for trouble and upset when deemed  fair and 
reasonable to do so. I have taken on board what Mr D describes as the impact, upon  him, of 
his pursuit for information from City Index. I have done the same  with the manner in which it 
has responded to him in the course of that pursuit.  Overall, I consider that £500 is broadly 
consistent with the sort of award  for trouble and upset this service would make  for the matter  
as presented.
Ref: DRN10560103Mr D says that he declined the offer in order for this service to look into the systemic 
management policy he alleges. I understand his desire to have this allegation looked into, 
but my remit is to determine the specific issues upon which his complaint has been 
submitted  that is, the issues for which he seeks redress. A general investigation into  or 
determination about  City Indexs complaints management policy is beyond this remit.
Issue 2
This appears  to be the most contested  issue in the complaint. I understand  the arguments 
Mr D has made but overall,  on balance  and for the reasons given below I am not persuaded 
by them.
First, I address the agreed  terms for Mr Ds account.  The implication that arises from his 
agreement with those  terms  is that they were binding upon him and City Index. As the 
adjudicator noted,  the terms support the manner in which City Index applied  the MACs to   
Mr Ds positions. Mr D says the terms were/are unfair and that he was promised, at the 
outset of the relevant account,  different terms in relation to MACs.
Based on the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (the CRA)  an unfair contract  term is one which causes a 
significant imbalance in the parties  rights  and obligations under the contract, to the detriment of 
the consumer.  The CRA says assessing a term for unfairness requires consideration of the nature 
of the subject matter  of the contract and all relevant  surrounding circumstances. Schedule 2 of the 
CRA gives an indicative list of terms that might  be unfair. The list includes terms which allow the 
trader to alter unilaterally without a valid reason  any characteristics of the services to be provided. 
Mr D could (or would) say this supports his assertion of unfairness that the type of MACs process  
he was promised by City Index at the outset  which was essentially identical to that for a stop 
order  was not provided in the service  that followed. However,  these points need to be addressed:
Mr D agreed  written  terms that did not reflect the promise  he says he was given. This 
creates a basis to conclude that on balance, and despite his assertion about the promise,  
the terms City Index eventually agreed  with him for the opening of the account are those it 
has shared with us and upon  which it relies. They are the terms that support City Indexs 
position in this issue. It is also reasonable to conclude, from Mr Ds agreement  to those 
terms despite them not reflecting the alleged promise,  that they are the terms he accepted 
to be bound by in opening the account.
In terms of unfairness the CRA  requires assessment of any imbalances between the 
parties rights and obligations  under  the contract and consideration of the subject matter of 
the contract and relevant surrounding circumstances. The contract  for Mr Ds account 
essentially provided him with access to a trading account service  and platform  and the 
associated costs  for the service  were prescribed within the terms; his trading was at his 
discretion; if he did not want to use the account for any reason he did not have to do so; the 
MACs applied only after margin breaches and the avoidance of margin breaches was within 
his control (by monitoring and maintaining  requisite margin  in the account); overall,  I do not 
consider that the contract (including  the rights,  obligations and subject matter  under it) was 
imbalanced to Mr Ds detriment. The same points  are relevant to the notion of relevant 
surrounding circumstances   I do not consider that they were imbalanced to his detriment.  
Mr D also says he had a been  a long standing  client of City Indexs for many years  before 
2015 and he had been given  no cause to mistrust it previously. This suggests a positive 
history between the parties that lends itself to the conclusion that Mr D did not consider 
himself, at the time,  to be in an unfair or imbalanced contractual relationship with City 
Ref: DRN10560104Index. This, further to the points made above,  adds some support to the conclusion  that the 
terms were not unfair as he alleges they were.  
Mr D says City Indexs application  of MACs to his account was in breach of its BE 
obligations and in breach  of relevant regulations. Evidence of the 16 MACs shows  that they 
were applied in response  to margin  breaches  between February and April 2015; that the 
time differences between the breaches being  triggered and the positions being  closed 
ranged from under a minute to around three minutes; and that a number of them  were 
closed manually (which City Index has affirmed).
The contents of the terms upon which City Index relies do not appear to be in dispute. They  
did not impose an obligation  about  precisely  how or when closures of positions were  to be 
executed after a margin breach. The dispute is about their application  to Mr Ds positions.  I 
consider that, on balance,  a number of counter-points either defeat or neutralise  his main 
points in this respect.  I note the following:
There is arguably no basis within the agreed  terms  upon  which  MACs can 
reasonably be regarded as identical to stop orders. The terms provide that MACs 
arise directly from a contractual default  basis  and they sit alongside other  options  like 
suspension of the account, closure of the account and termination of the agreement  
in the range of reactions  from City Index to the default. This differs from the basis for 
the range  of trading  orders clients could  use with City Index, which  arise  directly from 
clients placing the relevant orders as instructions for City Index  to execute. In this 
context, I am not persuaded that Mr D could have reasonably  expected MACs to be 
executed exactly  like stop orders. I also do not quite accept Mr Ds assertion that 
MACs are orders  generated on behalf  of the clients account. They are primarily 
penalties and mitigation for a type of default  (default  related  to an accounts  margin 
requirement) executed  by forcing closure(s)  of a clients  open  position(s). The orders  
raised for the MACs  were done as a part of this default  penalty/mitigation  based 
process and they were  arguably incomparable  to orders  a client wilfully  places in 
pursuit of profit.
On balance and further to the above finding, I consider that there is more merit in City 
Indexs argument  on the triggering of its BE obligation for MACs than there is in Mr 
Ds. The former says BE was triggered when the order to execute a MAC is accepted 
(automatically or manually) and the latter says it ought to have been triggered  as 
soon as the margin breach occurred. Mr D says City Indexs submissions on this 
point are conflicting. Overall I disagree, but I accept  that it has provided some 
responses which, in isolation,  could reasonably be read as conflicting.  It appears to 
have done this in an attempt to say BE could be triggered immediately upon a margin  
breach where  the automated process closes the position(s) immediately, but it 
retains discretion  to apply a manual process in some cases and in which  BE is not 
triggered until the MAC order is manually accepted.  
The MACs in Mr Ds case were not supposed to achieve an outcome he had 
specified in an order, so BE did not involve the best possible execution to match  a 
client specified outcome. Instead, and in the context of the manual process, the 
MACs were part of a range of reactions City Index could apply to the margin  
breaches, so first the manual decision had to be made to use them  before the matter  
of execution arose. I do not suggest a protracted  process and, whilst I understand the 
importance of time in terms of trading and the fluctuation of prices,  I am not 
persuaded that the passage of around  one to three minutes  amounts to the 
Ref: DRN10560105deliberate delay Mr D alleges. Market uncertainty  would have meant that an intended 
delay could not have been  predetermined, with certainty, to be detrimental to him. It 
could be argued  that there was a 50/50 chance  the market would move  for or against 
his positions within one to three minutes. 
The first point is that in the manual process  which City Index had discretion to apply 
 a margin breach  alone would not have  triggered  BE obligations because 
acceptance of the use of MACs (the MAC order)  to address the breach  instead  of 
any other option to do so  first needed  to happen before BE applied  for the fair 
execution of a MAC order. The second  point is that there is not enough  evidence  to 
conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that City Index abused its discretion to 
apply the manual  process. I note Mr Ds point that there were  no exceptional market 
circumstances related to the positions  closed  by MACs which  would have prompted 
the manual process,  but the process  was also applicable if City Index took the view 
that the size of a position warranted it. Mr D says or suggests  none of his positions 
were of a size that the automated process could not handle, but this too was subject 
to City Indexs discretion   not his  and I am not persuaded that it exercised it 
unfairly. Mr Ds submissions carry some weight in this respect but not enough to 
conclude that, on balance, the quicker  automated process would have catered for the 
MACs applied to his positions, but City Index intentionally and unreasonably elected 
for the manual process.
I am not persuaded that regulations support  Mr D in the manner he has asserted. He 
has referred, specifically, to a number  of relevant and meaningful regulations  and 
guidance from the regulator. I do not consider that the relevant regulations  and 
guidance (from the regulator) are or would be in dispute but, overall,  they treat the 
BE obligation  arising from the existence of an order.  As I have addressed above, the 
main dispute in issue 2 is about the time lag in the manual  process  between  the 
margin breach and manual acceptance  of the MAC order.  City Index appears to 
accept that BE obligations apply  from the acceptance of the MAC order.  This is 
broadly consistent  with the regulations and guidance Mr D has referred to  that is, 
BE applying from the existence of an order. For the reasons given above, I do not 
have enough evidence to conclude that City Index committed  a wrongdoing in terms 
of the time lag. 
Issues 3 and 4
Both issues relate to disputed fees  the financing fees for Mr Ds short CFD positions and 
the FX conversion fees. Both also relate to the agreed terms and to the absence of 
unfairness in those terms (which I addressed above).
I understand Mr Ds point about  the financing fees in relation to his short  positions.  Normally 
such fees are not incurred  by the customer, they are earned.  He also makes  an arguable 
point about how,  from a short trading customers perspective,  an arrangement for that 
customer to incur such fees where base interest rates  are low or negative is unjust. 
However, he accepts that this practice is not unique to City Index and is common in the 
industry. He says that does not make  it fair and, as I am not conducting a review of the 
industry in this respect, I neither agree  nor disagree with him. Such a review  might well 
balance the above perspective  with that of the firms who might make  a case  for the fee on 
the basis of the service  they consider they are providing. 
Ref: DRN10560106The issue  in the present  complaint is that Mr D agreed to terms which do not appear to have 
been unfair; which included the financing fee; a fee which,  in some circumstances (of low or 
negative base interest rates), could be incurred  in short positions; and a fee which  reflects a 
common financing fee arrangement in the industry. The agreed terms in this respect  were  
consistent with the financing  fees he has complained about. In this context and on balance,  I 
am not persuaded to uphold his complaint about  issue 3. The same conclusion  applies to 
issue 4 for the same  reasons.  The agreed terms expressly incorporated  the details of City 
Indexs charges and fees on its website. The FX conversion fees were  on the website and in 
the KSF.  The FX conversion  fees were  agreed between the parties and the fees complained 
about in this respect appear to have  been  consistent  with that agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint but he is invited  to reconsider 
the goodwill  offer from Gain Capital UK Limited  for the complaint handling  matter.  Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before  23 February 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1056010