K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  has not backdated  
her premiums enough following a successful claim  on her Critical Illness Policy.
background
Ms M made  a successful claim under the Total and Permanent Disability  (TPD)  part of her 
critical illness policy in 2018.  Legal and General agreed to backdate the claim to 2016. This 
meant the claim was paid in full and premiums  paid between 2016 and 2018 were  refunded.  
Ms M was unhappy that Legal and General  did not backdate the claim to before 2016 and 
she asked it to consider  whether she might have  an earlier valid claim and to refunded any 
premiums paid since the earlier settlement date. 
Legal and General said it wouldnt backdate the claim further. It said it retrospectively  
assessed the claim in 2018 to see the earliest point it could be paid  it felt June 2016 was 
the earliest point.  Legal and General said its clear Ms M has been unable to work due to ill 
health since 2001 and she had continuously been  receiving treatment to try and help 
manage her condition since then. 
Legal and General said a TPD claim can only be considered once all treatment options have 
been exhausted. It said medical  information  received shows  Eye Movement Desensitization  
and Reprocessing (EMDR) treatment was provided  in 2016, which was unsuccessful. It felt 
this was the last available treatment option  for Ms M, so it backdated  the claim to when she 
was discharged from this treatment. 
Legal and General said it cant  comment on what would have happened if Ms M had claimed 
earlier, because this is a hypothetical question. It said it can only comment on what  it knows 
at the present time.  And based  on the medical  information received, it can see treatment 
options were available until Ms M was discharged from EMDR. So it said it would not 
backdate the claim further. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ms complaint. He said to claim under the TPD section of a 
policy, a claimant needs to be totally  and permanently  disabled to an extent that they are 
prevented from ever returning to work. As part of this, the claimant must have completed all 
reasonable treatment  options. He said Ms M was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress and 
the final treatment  option for this was completed  in June 2016. Following treatment, the 
treating medical  professional said Ms M wasnt expected to be able to return to work. And 
this is why Legal and General backdated the claim to June 2016. Our investigator said at no 
time before this had a treating medical  professional  said Ms M had completed  all reasonable 
treatment options  and wouldnt ever be able to return  to work. 
Ms M then provided our investigator  with further  information, in the form of older medical 
records, to see if these  might show that she was totally and permanently  disabled from an 
earlier date. Our investigator considered this information, but it didnt change his 
assessment. 
Ms M was not happy with the outcome and so this complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN18469182I provided Legal and General with the new medical information Ms M had given  us, as it 
hadnt had the opportunity to consider this information. Legal and General said it didnt 
change its decision.  It said the work-based assessment from 17 years ago doesnt support a 
claim for total and permanent disability. Legal  and General said Ms M was off work for 18 
months and even with consultant input, wasnt deemed to be permanently unable  to work 
until retirement age. At that stage, her appeal for retirement on the grounds of ill health  was 
rejected. Legal  and General concluded Ms M wouldnt have met the criteria for a TPD claim 
in 2003 based on her age, symptom onset and treatment outstanding.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ms 
complaint. 
Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, but Ive limited my response to the 
issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is whether Legal and General acted 
fairly when  it backdated Ms Ms premiums to 2016,  following the settling of her TPD claim in 
2018.  
Ms M hasnt worked since around 2001 and its clear shes  been unwell for a lengthy period 
of time. Legal and General accepted her claim from June  2016, but in order to have the 
claim paid from an earlier  point Ms M would have  to fulfil the policy  definition  of Any 
Occupation Total and Permanent Disability before June 2016. And this is that she must  be 
totally unable to follow  any occupation and in the opinion of the Chief  Medical Officer of 
Legal & General is likely to remain so permanently. Such decision will be based  on all of the 
medical evidence  available.
So saying that Ms M wasnt  able to work  at a given point in time isnt enough. It has to be 
shown that the inability  to work is permanent. When deciding whether someone  is 
permanently unable to work, an insurer would usually look at whether all treatment options 
had been explored. This is because its not possible  to say that an inability to work is 
permanent until all reasonable treatment options are exhausted.
If Ms M made the claim earlier, then Legal  and General would most likely have looked into 
what treatment options were available to her at that earlier time and may also have  asked 
her to undergo an independent medical review. However, because  the claim is being  made  
retrospectively, Legal and General isnt able to deal with this claim in the way it would have 
dealt with it if it had been made earlier. So it needed to rely on the medical  information  
provided to it by Ms M and assess at what point  it thinks this shows she was totally  and 
permanently unable to work. 
Having reviewed the information provided, I cant see that there  is anything  in Ms Ms 
medical records before June 2016  that shows her inability to work  was ever considered 
permanent. I can see that the question of whether Ms M was fit to return to work hasnt been  
specifically addressed since around  2002,  when several assessments were  carried out to 
look at her absence from work  and whether  she might be able to return  to work. 
An occupational health report completed  at that time said she was very functionally  
impaired and the duration of her symptoms  and the developing course of her illness  was 
suggestive of a poor prognosis. A further period of absence from work was suggested. The 
report also outlined how an earlier return to work might be facilitated and it concluded by 
Ref: DRN18469183saying the assessor  was reluctant at this point  to say she is permanently  unfit for work in 
any capacity until retirement  age.  So Im satisfied that in spite of her health difficulties, Ms M 
was not considered permanently unable to return to work at that point in time.
Ms M did not return  to work following the assessments in 2002. She has engaged with 
mental health treatment  services since that time and has undertaken a variety  of treatment 
programmes. But the question of whether she was ever fit to return  to work  hasnt been 
looked at by the various professionals involved in her care.  Nevertheless,  the fact that 
treatment has continued to be offered to her suggests to me that her doctors  considered it 
might be improve her level of functioning.  And whilst this was outstanding, I dont think  she 
could be considered permanently unable to work.  
Ms M completed  the EMDR programme in June 2016. Initially, it seemed the programme 
might have helped  to reduce her trauma related distress. But in 2017  some of her symptoms 
had worsened  and it was unclear whether it would be appropriate or helpful to offer further 
therapy. And because  it seemed  Ms M wasnt likely to benefit from further therapy, Legal 
and General decided the completion  date of the EMDR  programme was the point when she 
could be considered permanently unfit for work. Based on what Ive seen, I think  that was 
reasonable.
Ms M has said her illness played a part in her not knowing she could make a claim earlier.  
While I accept this is likely  to have been the case,  I could only take this into consideration if 
Legal and General had made an error in not looking at her claim at an earlier point. But 
Legal and General couldnt have known about  Ms Ms situation until the claim was made and 
so any disadvantage  Ms M feels shes been placed  in is not the fault of Legal  and General.  
Overall, I dont  think Ms Ms medical records show she was permanently unable  to return to 
work before June  2016. And as Legal and General cant assess a retrospective TPD claim in 
the usual way, Im satisfied that it acted fairly when it agreed  to settle Ms Ms claim and 
refund her premiums from the point she completed the EMDR treatment in June 2016. 
my final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before  4 July 2020.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1846918