K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about Zenith  Insurance plc. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his commercial  van insurance  and cancelled his policy.
background
I looked at this case and provided  my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr W took out insurance for his van with Zenith and when he was involved in an accident, he 
made a claim under  his policy. But when Zenith investigated this for him it turned down his 
claim. This was because  it said that it wouldnt have insured  him had it have known the van 
had been modified. So it refunded his premium and treated his policy as if it didnt exist.  
Mr W maintained  that he wasnt aware  that the van had been modified  in any way. He just 
bought the van as it was, insured it and used it for work purposes as a builder. The van was 
panelled out, had a cupboard and had a removable sink unit which made it useful for his 
work as a builder.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He was satisfied that 
Mr Ws van was clearly a works van and that he hadnt altered it himself. But, importantly, he 
didnt think Zenith had shown that it wouldnt have insured the van had it have known about 
the alterations. So, he asked Zenith  to settle the claim.
As Zenith didnt agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im currently  minded to 
uphold this complaint but for slightly different reasons.
While I can understand Zeniths  position,  I just dont feel it has produced  sufficient evidence  
to support its position that it wouldnt have insured Mr W had it have  known about  the 
alterations. And Im not persuaded  that Mr W was asked clear questions  that wouldve 
highlighted to him the information Zenith required  in order to see if it would insure him or not.
Ive looked at the file and claim in detail  and it looks like Zenith  agreed  to settle the claim and 
agreed a valuation with Mr W after its engineer  looked at the damage sustained  during the 
accident. The engineer looked  at Mr Ws works van and didnt highlight any concerns around 
modifications, although he was clearly  aware of the cupboard and sink. He simply 
highlighted that the van was a write  off following  the accident and agreed a market value 
with Mr W.
However, a few weeks later Zenith went onto say it wouldnt  pay the claim when it noticed 
that there  were a couple of alterations to Mr Ws van. It said that it wouldnt have  insured  
Mr W had it have known about these. And it said that Mr W was clearly asked if his van had 
been modified  when  he took the policy  out the year before and at the time of renewal.
I can see from the documents that the broker said that it wasnt able to renew Mr Ws policy 
from the year before.  But it wrote out with a new policy and sent Mr W a pre-populated 
proposal form with a tick saying that the van hadnt been modified. Im not sure this shows 
Ref: DRN16158052that Mr W was asked  a clear question when  he took out this policy.  I say this as the form 
was pre-populated  from answers Mr W had given in relation to a different policy  the year 
before.
But Mr W didnt  realise that his van had been modified in any event. He simply bought the 
panelled van for works purposes. Ive viewed the pictures of his van from the time of the 
accident and it is very clear that it was a builders van and was used as such. Indeed,  Zenith 
has provided a screenshot from the comparison website indicating  the kind of question  he 
was asked for the earlier policy. And Im not sure that Mr W would have realised  that his van 
was modified in any way from these questions.
In turning down  Mr Ws claim and cancelling his policy back  to the start Zenith  has 
highlighted that the van had additional  windows, a sink and cupboard. But it appears  to have 
accepted that the windows appear original and so wouldnt expect Mr W to realise they were  
not original. I can understand this as the windows were clearly marked  with the 
manufacturers logo and I see no reason why Mr W wouldve known otherwise.
Turning to the sink and cupboard I agree with the investigator that these were removable 
objects and so I dont think it would be fair to say that these  additions  were modifications. I 
accept Mr Ws point that it was useful to be able to remove  them  if he needed  extra space 
while he was working. And given  the condition of the van (as a builders van) it is clear  that 
Mr W only used  it for work purposes.
Zenith accepts that the cupboard was removable but says that many items can be 
removable and affect risk. It suggests  that the cupboard and sink could have caused 
damage in an accident  and that the items  would increase the vans desirability. But these  
items were easily removed which is probably  why the inspecting engineer didnt mention 
anything in his report. And Im sure Mr W carries a multitude of items in the back of his works  
van that could  move about  and cause damage  in an accident, so Im not persuaded by its 
argument here.
In relation to the underwriting criteria that Zenith has provided the only aspect  that shows  it 
would decline is internal changes. But as the items were removable and, as highlighted by 
Mr W, most  builders vans are panelled out in any event I dont think that there  is sufficient 
evidence to say it would  decline for this reason. The other two underwriting criteria that 
Zenith has relied on say that it would refer to its underwriters in relation to water tanks and 
would decline for additional seating - but it hasnt provided any detail to show that there was 
additional seating or about water tanks.
Furthermore, I know that Zenith feels it asked Mr W clear questions at the time of renewal. 
But in fact, it just sent Mr W a pre-populated  form with a tick saying that there  werent any 
modifications. And it is clear Mr W didnt think the van was modified in any event. So, I dont 
think he would have  realised this even if he read the pre-populated statement which didnt 
mention the alterations that had been made to his van.
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for Zenith to pay the claim. Im satisfied that Mr W wasnt aware that the van had been  
altered. I say this as the windows were  branded  with the manufacturers  stamp, the sink unit 
was removable,  and he clearly used the van for work purposes. Knowing  what Mr W does 
for a living and having seen pictures of the van (which clearly shows  a builders van) Im 
satisfied that he has acted honestly.
Ref: DRN16158053Finally, there appeared to be some  confusion around the compensation level that Zenith 
offered Mr W in relation  to the poor service he received. But it did send  Mr W a cheque for 
£75 initially  which Mr W didnt cash. And I agree with the adjudicator  that a further £75 
compensation should be paid for the additional  stress and inconvenience  caused.
replies
Mr W called  our investigator  to say that he was happy with the provisional  decision, but 
Zenith didnt reply. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I remain of the view that 
the complaint  should be upheld. 
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or commentary on the decision,  I dont 
propose to go over the detail again  here. 
So, the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Zenith should  settle  Mr Ws claim, adding interest for the time he 
has been without  the money owed, and pay him £150 compensation.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith 
Insurance plc to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
and pay him a total of £150  compensation. It should  also add 8% simple  interest  from the 
date of claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1615805