K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Ulster Bank  Ltd closed his account.
background
Mr K had an account with Ulster Bank until July 2018, when it was closed by the bank. He 
says this resulted  in him being  hospitalised,  although he has not explained why or how this 
happened. He says the bank has discriminated against him based on his disability, and has 
prevented him from being able to access his money.
The bank says it was entitled to close the account  under  the account terms and conditions.  It 
did not have to give him any notice of its decision, but it still wrote to him and gave him 14 
days notice, although the account was actually closed a little later than that. It was not to 
blame if Mr K did not receive the letter.  Mr K had withdrawn all of his money before the 
account was closed.
Mr K complained to our Service, but our adjudicator  did not uphold his complaint. He said 
that the bank had been entitled to close the account.  The bank was not obliged  to explain 
the precise reasons why, and it had been enough  for it to quote  the paragraph in the terms 
and conditions on which it relied. Being dissatisfied  with this opinion,  Mr K asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The account  terms and conditions allow the bank to close an account without notice in 
certain circumstances.  This paragraph  has already been quoted to Mr K, so I wont repeat it 
here. In fact the bank wrote to him and told him it would close  his account  in 14 days. It 
didnt have to. Mr K says he didnt  receive  that letter, but he was made aware of the problem 
only five days later, when  he visited a branch.  The account was closed  14 days after that, so 
he still had the full 14 days notice. He withdrew  all his money on the day the account  was 
closed, so I cant agree that he was deprived  of access  to it.
I therefore do not think the bank did anything wrong.  It was entitled to close the account,  and 
it returned Mr Ks money to him. I have  seen no evidence that it was responsible for his 
hospitalisation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1422808