K821x#15complaint
Miss P has complained  about  the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a chargeback  
request in respect of a payment she made using her debit card.
background
In October  2018 Miss P made a payment for £3,762  on her debit card. In December 2018 
she contacted  Barclays saying she disputed the payment and Barclays raised  a chargeback.
In January 2019 Barclays wrote to Miss P saying the recipient of the payment (the 
merchant) didnt accept  the chargeback. It said Miss P needed to write to it within  ten days if 
she didnt think the dispute had been resolved. Miss P sent Barclays  additional evidence  
about the dispute within the ten days. In February 2019 Barclays  wrote to Miss P saying  it 
hadnt been able to recover  the funds from the merchant  and couldnt  refund her account.
Miss P complained to Barclays and it didnt uphold  her complaint. It said it hadnt made an 
error and didnt have  sufficient  information to take the dispute further. Miss P wasnt  happy  
with Barclays response and referred  her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
After the complaint had been  referred to this service,  Barclays accepted  that it hadnt 
reviewed the additional  evidence provided by Miss P in time for it to take the chargeback 
request any further.  But it said it had reviewed the evidence subsequently and it didnt think  it 
would have affected the outcome of the chargeback request. It offered to pay Miss P £150 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt  think £150 was sufficient compensation  for the poor service Miss P 
had received. He recommended Barclays should pay her £250. Barclays accepted our 
investigators recommendation but Miss P didnt agree with it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback isnt a legal right, and isnt guaranteed to succeed. Where  there  is a dispute, 
the card issuer may raise a chargeback under the relevant card scheme. Chargebacks  are 
decided on the card schemes  rules  in this case VISA. The rules specify the circumstances 
in which  a chargeback can be successful.
Im satisfied that the service Miss P received from Barclays in respect of her chargeback  
request fell below  the standard she was reasonably entitled to expect. In particular, Barclays  
didnt make it clear why the chargeback  was unsuccessful and why her evidence wasnt 
considered to be sufficient. But Im not persuaded I could reasonably decide that the 
outcome of the chargeback request would have been any different if Barclays  hadnt made 
any errors.
Im satisfied Barclays caused Miss P unnecessary trouble and upset. But there was no 
guarantee the chargeback  would  be successful. She can still take action  against  the 
Ref: DRN18009972merchant to try to recover the money  she paid. I dont think she suffered financial loss as a 
result of Barclays actions.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied £250 is a reasonable  amount  for Miss P to receive as 
compensation for the trouble and upset  she suffered  as a result of Barclays errors.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay Miss P £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1800997