K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a single premium payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr P was sold PPI during  a meeting with Lloyds in 1985  in connection with a loan.
The policy wouldve covered  Mr Ps repayments  for at least  12 months if he lost his job or if 
he was off work sick.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate that Mr P will be 
disappointed with this outcome but it is of course up to Mr P whether he accepts or rejects  
my decision.  I will now explain why Ive reached  this outcome.
I havent seen  a copy of the actual terms and conditions relating to this policy given the 
length of time of the sale. However, based  on my understanding of the eligibility criteria of 
PPI policies generally and the closest information to the sale available to me, I think Mr P 
was eligible for the policy  based on his age, residence and employment at the time of the 
sale.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr P that the policy was optional  and needed  Mr Ps consent 
before it could be applied to his account. Mr P says the policy  was added automatically 
without his knowledge or say so.
Of course I cant  know for sure what happened during the sale so I have looked to the 
available documents and thought about  what Lloyds and Mr P have told us in order to decide 
what is more likely  to have happened.
Lloyds no longer have the documents from the time of the sale. This is understandable given 
the length of time since the sale. However, Mr P has been  able to provide us with 
documents. In particular,  Mr P has provided us with a copy of the credit agreement. On this 
agreement I can see that PPI is referred to above where the costs  are set out. It is referred 
to as optional loan repayment insurance.  
So while I appreciate what Mr P has told us about  not knowing he had been sold PPI, I cant 
say this is more likely to have been because  Lloyds didnt make him aware  he was being 
sold PPI given that loan repayment insurance was mentioned in the credit agreement that 
Ref: DRN13784042he has sent us. I havent  seen  all the documents from the time of the sale,  but based on how 
PPI has been  presented  on the credit agreement   as optional  - I think  its more  likely that at 
some point during  the meeting Mr P would have  been asked if he wanted  PPI. If he didnt 
want PPI this is something which he could have raised with the representative during the 
meeting given that it appeared  on the credit agreement  with a separate cost attached to it.
So I think Lloyds made it clear that the PPI was optional  and it was added to the account  
because Mr P chose to take it out although  I can appreciate why he can no longer remember 
this given the length of time since the sale.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr P to take the policy. This means they should have taken 
adequate steps to ensure  the policy was suitable for Mr P. I cant say whether or not Lloyds 
did take all the steps as they shouldve but I think the policy was suitable  for Mr P for the 
following reasons:
-Mr P has told us that he wouldve received sick pay from his employer. But the policy  
wouldve paid out in addition to this sick pay and likely for a much  longer period of 
time. Mr P has also provided evidence to show us that he was entitled to redundancy 
pay. But again the PPI would  have paid out in addition to this.
-Mr P has also mentioned he had savings,  equity in his house  and that family 
members could  have  helped meet the repayments. However, I dont think  the 
existence of any of these other means meant that the policy  was unsuitable for Mr P. 
This is because although  I dont doubt  that Mr Ps family members  would  have 
wanted to help Mr P, circumstances change and his family may not have been in the 
position to be able to help when  the need arose.  The PPI would have meant  that    
Mr P wouldnt have  had to resort to selling or releasing equity from his property both 
of which  are also time consuming processes. And I dont think  Mr Ps savings were of 
such an amount that would have meant  the PPI wasnt of benefit  to him, especially 
given the length  of time the policy would have paid out. And Mr P could have  used 
his savings for other living expenses while the PPI took care of the loan repayments.
-Mr P has also referred to another policy but he has confirmed that this was a life 
policy. So this wouldnt have duplicated the PPI policy in terms of the monthly benefit 
that the PPI policy  would have paid out for accident, sickness or redundancy.
-I havent seen  evidence which suggests  to me that this policy was unaffordable for 
Mr P at the time of the sale. 
-PPI policies generally contain terms which may make it difficult  for people  in certain 
circumstances to make a successful claim under the policy.  But Mr P didnt appear  to 
have been affected  by these  terms.  For example, the restrictive  terms relating to pre-
existing medical conditions and unusual working arrangements.
-The policy is unlikely to have  provided  a pro-rata  refund if settled  early.   I appreciate  
Mr P settled  the loan early  but  I havent  seen any evidence that Mr P knew or 
considered he might  settle the loan early  when he took the policy out.  So I dont 
think the lack of a pro-rata refund meant  that the policy was unsuitable for Mr P at the 
time of the sale.
Ref: DRN13784043I also have to consider  whether or not Lloyds  gave Mr P clear  enough information about the 
policy, in particular about the costs,  benefits  and main exclusions/restrictions,  so that he 
could make a proper choice about  whether or not to take PPI.
Mr P says Lloyds didnt provide him with any information about  the policy and that he didnt 
ask any questions about it as he wasnt aware  that there was a policy.  But given that PPI 
was mentioned in the actual credit agreement, I think  its unlikely that Lloyds wouldnt have 
given any information  about the policy or that there  wouldnt have been some discussion 
about it. However, I cant say that Lloyds did give Mr P all the information as they shouldve. 
This in itself doesnt  mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information about the policy would have put him off taking  PPI out. 
And I dont  think better information would have put Mr P off the policy. I say this for the same 
reasons that I think the policy was suitable for him.
Mr P has also referred to a conversation with the adjudicator (who issued the initial  
assessment) about a made up contract  of insurance. Ive listened  to the conversations  
between Mr P and the adjudicator. But I havent come  across anything in these 
conversations about a made up contract of insurance. And anyway, importantly theres 
nothing in these  conversations  which leads  me to conclude  that Mr P was mis-sold this PPI 
policy.
So all in all, based on the evidence available to me, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr P this 
PPI policy.
In addition to complaining  about PPI being  mis-sold,  Mr P also complains about the way 
Lloyds has dealt with his complaint. He says that Lloyds  didnt take into account all the 
relevant information  he provided and that Lloyds didnt  contact  him as they had suggested.  
He says on medical advice he was nearly  always at home and always  had his phone by his 
side so would have  been aware  if Lloyds had tried to contact him. On the contrary, he says 
he contacted Lloyds for updates and was provided  with a negative response.  He also says 
he would  get cut off when  he was on the phone to them.
However, Lloyds have provided  us with a timeline  of the events relating to contact between 
Mr P and Lloyds from their records. This information shows that initially  Lloyds hadnt logged 
additional information sent in by Mr P. This was later corrected and Lloyds confirmed that 
they had received this information  and apologised to Mr P. This was in October/November 
2017. They  then continued to consider his complaint.
The timeline of events also shows that Lloyds  tried several times (unsuccessfully) to contact 
Mr P before issuing their final response letter on 26 February 2018, not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. This letter asked Mr P to contact  them  with any further information. Mr P then 
provided additional information  in March 2018  in response to this letter.  Lloyds then issued 
another letter dated 26 April 2018. They confirmed that they had considered the further 
information provided by Mr P but that their decision remained unchanged and that Mr Ps 
complaint had been closed.
This letter encouraged  Mr P to get in touch with them if he had any further information. In 
this letter  Lloyds said that they had tried to contact Mr P for further information. As 
mentioned above,  Mr P disputes this and says that they didnt and that he called them  for 
updates. The record confirms that Mr P did call Lloyds for updates on two occasions after 
sending in his further information in March 2018 and before the 26 April letter  was issued, 
Ref: DRN13784044but it also shows that following these update calls Lloyds also tried calling Mr P on three 
separate occasions before issuing  their final response letter  on 26 April 2018.  I think this 
record accurately represents the contact between Mr P and Lloyds  especially  given  that the 
record doesnt show any sort of bias. It shows both that Mr P called for updates  and that 
Lloyds tried to call him. Theres nothing which refers to the calls being cut off.
Mr P responded to the 26 April 2018 letter on 8 May 2018 providing additional information, 
Lloyds responded by saying that as per their letter of 26 April 2018  the complaint  had been  
closed. I think Lloyds  could have been  clearer with Mr P when they issued their response to 
Mr Ps letter  of 8 May 2018 as to whether or not they had considered the further information 
he had provided  in his letter of 8 May 2018. 
However, Mr P then brought his complaint  to us. And I can see from the timeline of events  
provided that Lloyds  did confirm to Mr P during a phone call (after the complaint had been 
brought to us) that their decision remained unchanged and they have also confirmed to us 
that they reviewed  all the additional information  provided by Mr P to the point that they sent 
us their business file. 
So having  taken into consideration all of the above,  I dont think Lloyds need to do anything  
further in relation to this aspect of Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P has also raised concerns about this service. This follows  a separate process and so I 
havent dealt specifically with these concerns in my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against  Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1378404