K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained about the conflicting information he was provided by TSB Bank plc relating 
to fees refunded on his mortgage account.
background
Mr L has a mortgage  account with TSB Bank which has been owned by several  different 
companies over the years. On 13 July 2013,  Mr Ls mortgage account was transferred to 
TSB Bank from another bank Ill refer to as A.
In 2017, Mr L was informed that A had decided to refund arrears management charges that 
its customers had paid between 1 January 2009  and 31 December 2015. In Mr Ls case, that 
meant he would  be refunded any arrears management charges he paid (and the associated 
interest) until the date his mortgage  account  was transferred to TSB Bank  in 2013.
In May 2018  Mr L received a letter advising him of the refund again. The letter told him that 
he would  receive  a payment of £368.14  into his mortgage account. 
In June 2018 Mr L complained to TSB Bank  that he hadnt received the refund as per the 
letter he received.
TSB Bank upheld the complaint in part. It said Mr L wasnt entitled to any additional refund 
as A had advised  this had already been  paid to him. But it apologised for the letter he 
received saying he would be getting a further  sum. It accepted this had caused  confusion 
and inconvenience  so it offered £75 to compensate him for this. This was later increased to 
£165.
Mr L remained unhappy and referred  his complaint to our service. He disputed  that hed 
already received the refund and said hed spent  considerable time trying  to sort things out. 
He wanted the cost of his phone calls covered.
Our investigator thought A had already paid Mr L the refund he was due (more than once)  
and noted hed also received a number of payments for the trouble and upset caused by the 
service hed received.  She noted  that A had offered Mr L £60 to cover  the cost of his calls, 
provided he was able to evidence the cost hed incurred. Overall, she didnt  think either A or 
TSB Bank needed  to do any more to put things right.
Mr L maintained he hadnt  received the right refund. He said hed seen his account 
statement showing hed been  charged  fees of £467 over the course of his mortgage.  He also 
thought it was unfair that he had to evidence the costs of his calls as he didnt receive 
itemised bills anymore.
As no agreement could be reached  the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
I called Mr L after completing  my review to explain that I wouldnt be able to consider any of 
the complaint  points  relating to A under this complaint reference. This was because A is a 
separate legal  entity, so any complaint about  its actions had to be considered separately 
from the complaint  he made against  TSB Bank. I told Mr L my decision  would only focus on 
the issues hed raised  about TSB Bank but I would arrange for a new complaint to be set up 
against A. Mr L understood and accepted this.
Ref: DRN16844992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr L but I hope hell understand why, following 
my explanation.
Its clear that Mr L received a letter in May 2018 telling him he was owed a refund of 
£368.14. When he didnt  receive this, Mr L complained  to TSB Bank. I dont  think  that was 
unreasonable because his mortgage  account is with TSB Bank.
TSB Bank couldnt  locate any record of the letter and seems to have rebuffed Mr Ls 
complaint in the first instance.  Ive seen a copy of the letter and I think this was sent to Mr L 
by A. This would appear to be why TSB Bank couldnt find a copy of the letter  in its records. 
But given that TSB Bank was aware A had decided to refund arrears management fees and 
this was impacting  a number of its customers, I think it couldve worked  out the letter  was 
most likely sent to Mr L by A. And so it couldve approached A to ask why hed been  sent 
this letter  sooner.
Im please  to see that TSB Bank has accepted it couldve  provided Mr L with a better  service  
on this occasion.  It offered him £75 for this in its final response letter  of 9 August 2018.  
However, I can see that Mr L didnt accept  the offer and after explaining why his costs  
exceeded this, TSB Bank agreed to increase the payment  to £165. This was paid to Mr L in 
September 2018.
Overall, I think this sum fairly compensates Mr L for the service provided  by TSB Bank when 
he raised concerns  about the letter he received in May 2018. Whilst I think  it couldve 
explained what had happened sooner, ultimately  the letter was sent by A, which was beyond  
TSB Banks  control.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1684499