K820x#14Complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to pay him the maturity  
bonus on his endowment  savings policy. Hes said he was wrongly  advised  in 2009 in 
relation to two endowment policies he held and as a result he has lost out on monies due to 
him.
Background
Mr S held two endowment  savings policies with businesses that had become the 
responsibility of Aviva  some years  previous.
In 2006 Aviva started the process of transferring all the policies provided  by these 
businesses to another arm of its business. This also involved an incentive payment 
(reattribution) to relevant  policyholders taken  from the monies built up in the specific  with 
profits funds  which were  part of the policies in question. This money was known as the 
inherited estate and was above the expected amount needed to meet policyholders  and 
other commitments, hence it being available.
Aviva sent several  letters to Mr S between 2006 until 2009 informing him that this process 
was due to start and explained exactly what it meant. In 2009 after consultations, 
agreements and involvement of the High Court, Aviva wrote to Mr S and offered him two 
incentive payments  on each  of his policies. One was just under £1,000 and one just under 
£350.
Mr S chose to accept the payment  for one of his policies but opted to keep the other policy in 
place until maturity.
Mr S says he did this because he thought he was deferring the payment until maturity  and 
was under the impression that he would always  receive  this incentive payment but just at a 
later date. He also said he thought  it was a bonus payment.
However, when he didnt receive  a bonus  at maturity of the policy in 2019 he complained  to 
this Service.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Having looked  through the paperwork that was provided to Mr S in 2009  in relation to the 
reattribution exercise  he couldnt find anything that confirmed any future payments outside of 
the reattribution  process  had been guaranteed.
Mr S didnt agree with the assessment. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its important to clarify a few issues as it seems  to me Mr S had misunderstood 
some points.
Mr S has referred to the payment made  under the reattribution process as a bonus. But this 
is incorrect. The payments offered were incentive payments (as mentioned above) and the 
Ref: DRN13615342aim of this was effectively  to encourage policyholders to give up their future interests  in the 
inherited estate. Therefore, the reality  of the situation was that no bonus was guaranteed to 
be applied  to the policies. So, when Mr S accepted  the incentive payment on one policy he 
wasnt deferring accepting the offer on the other; he was turning that incentive payment 
down. And as the incentive payments offered to him in 2009 were  effectively one time only 
offers no such offers or payments would be made  in the future.
Therefore, by not applying the additional sum to Mr Ss matured policy,  some ten years later, 
Aviva hasnt done anything wrong  as no further monies were due to him other  than the 
maturity value of his policy.
Its also important to point  out that in the documentation  sent to Mr S over the years between 
2006 to 2009 no mention was made of the payments being bonus payments nor is any 
mention made of being able to defer the payments  until a later date. So, I am unsure of 
where Mr S got this impression from.
Mr S has said he was given advice by the Policyholder Advocate about  whether to accept 
these payments, but he hasnt provided  anything  to confirm this. He has, however, said that 
he didnt speak personally to the Policyholder Advocate, but he took the reattribution  pack he 
was sent in 2009 to be him getting advice from her.
While I appreciate Mr S was under this impression the reattribution pack he received  in 2009 
wasnt him being given advice about this process. This was a pack  that was sent out to all 
affected policyholders  setting  out identical information about the reattribution process. No 
one was specifically  picked out nor did anyone speak to the Policyholder  Advocate. Also,  
nothing in the paperwork given to Mr S over the years state that advice was given, or could 
be given, in relation  to this issue.
I also think that if Mr S had spoken  to someone  for advice he would have had a better 
understanding of the process  and the fact the offers were incentive payments rather  than 
bonuses as he believed.
Overall therefore, while  I appreciate Mr Ss frustration, I think some of this is borne out of the 
fact that he didnt fully understand the process  that was happening  in 2009 when accepted 
one out of the two invective offers made to him by Aviva. And while that is unfortunate this 
isnt down to anything Aviva did wrong  nor was it Avivas responsibility to ensure he 
understood. This was for Mr S to identify and seek independent advice if he felt he needed 
to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1361534