K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that U Drive Cover Ltd didnt refund  the correct  amount of his premium  
when he cancelled his motor policy. 
background
On 21 December 2018, Mr H took out a motor policy through  U Drive, a broker, via an online 
aggregator. The premium  price Mr H was to pay increased, following Mr H talking on the 
phone to U Drive. Mr H didnt want to pay this increased premium,  so U Drive found him 
another policy with a premium Mr H was willing to pay, and that policy was duly set up with 
Mr H paying a deposit.
The rest of the premium  Mr H was due to pay for his policy was to be set up by a finance 
agreement to include excess  protection, interest  and U Drives fees. U Drive also asked  Mr 
H to send in a copy of his driving licence and a code to access his driving record with the 
DVLA. Mr H said he had no driving  convictions or penalty points and that he obtained his 
licence in December  1998. 
However, this wasnt correct, as Mr H had 4 penalty  points issued on his licence in January  
2015 according to the DVLA,  plus he got his licence in December 1999, not 1998. This 
increased Mr Hs premium again.  The increase in the annual  premium was £181.17 due to 
the prior conviction  and a further £62.96  because  of discrepancy in the date the drivers 
licence. U Drive  also charged  him an admin fee of £30. The total therefore  being £274.13.
Mr H immediately told U Drive he didnt want to pay this extra amount in premium  and he 
then emailed U Drive on 16 January  saying  that he would prefer  to cancel his policy.  U Drive  
needed Mr H to cancel  his policy by phone instead  of email. But then Mr H asked U Drive to 
extend his policy to 1 February,  as that meant  in his calculations  that U Drive wouldnt have 
to provide him with a refund. This was because Mr H felt that as he had already paid a 
deposit of £162.83, he had effectively  paid for his car to be insured up until 1 February  2019.
But U Drive told Mr H owed it £274.13  and that his policy was due to be cancelled that day. 
Mr H disagreed, as he didnt think he owed U Drive anything because  the policy wasnt 
suitable for his needs and the penalty points didnt exist. So Mr H complained and said he 
never agreed to taking  out any finance  agreement.  Between February  and March  2019, U 
Drive sent Mr H various letters chasing the amount it said he owed it, but Mr H continued to 
dispute he owed  U Drive anything.
U Drive responded to Mr Hs complaint on 12 March 2019  and didnt  uphold  it. U Drive
said it outlined the cancellation charges to Mr H during the call when  the policy was
taken out and that it was clear he was taking  out a finance agreement, given he wanted to 
pay his premium in instalments.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. 
But since  then, there were further  developments. Whilst Mr Hs complaint was directed solely  
to U Drive, the investigator didnt think it was responsible for everything he was complaining 
about. Thats because  its the insurer who is responsible for what happens when an alleged  
misrepresentation is identified and who then indeed decides if the premium needs  
adjustment. So the investigator then dealt  with a complaint against the insurer.
Ref: DRN15944142The insurer  confirmed that the cost of Mr Hs time on risk amounted to £107.56. So it then 
made a refund of £838.95 to U Drive.  On this basis, the investigator asked U Drive if this 
meant it was willing to write off the amount it said Mr H owed. But, U Drive said that it would 
only reduce the outstanding amount it believed Mr H owed to it to £189.30. 
The investigator was of the view that U Drive should  have cancelled  Mr Hs policy instead of 
raising the extra premium,  as Mr H had initially  requested,  before he then decided to 
maintain his cover until 1 February. He wasnt sure how U Drive got the figure  of £189.30  
either, which appeared to have included an amendment fee of £30. He also saw no evidence 
of any finance  agreement actually being  entered into by Mr H, such as signed agreement.  
Bearing in mind the time on risk cost plus U Drives fee for setting up the policy,  he was of 
the view that Mr H owed  U Drive no further  monies. He felt that the fact U Drive had 
instructed debt collectors to recover the debt from Mr H caused him some  inconvenience so 
he thought U Drive  should  pay Mr H £50 compensation.  U Drive didnt agree so Mr Hs 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint along  the same  lines as the investigator. Ill now explain why.
Its clear that Mr H didnt answer  the questions asked of him correctly. The date he obtained 
his driving licence was a year later than he said and the DVLA  showed  him to have 4 penalty 
points on his licence.  So these two issues would invariably increase the cost of the premium 
for any insurer which is what  happened  here with the insurers  U Drive had found for Mr H. 
But when that happens under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) 
Act 2012,  we take the view that where there has been a qualifying misrepresentation as 
there has been here, the consumer must be allowed to cancel his policy if he doesnt want  to 
pay the increased premium. Essentially Mr H said on the first policy he applied  through U 
Drive and this one, that he never wanted  to pay any increased premium beyond  it seems,  
the original ones quoted.  U Drive didnt give Mr H this opportunity to cancel coherently  and 
instead it demanded he pay the increased premium. Some of that was down  to Mr H 
changing his mind about when he wanted  to cancel  his policy and U Drive needing to go 
through the cancellation instruction on the phone  instead of by email. But I think its clear Mr 
H didnt want to pay the increased  premium and did want his policy  cancelled  instead.
I can understand why U Drive said it wanted  to ensure Mr Hs policy  wasnt void, but I still 
dont think its fair it imposed the increase on him when it was very clear initially  at least, that 
Mr H wanted to cancel  his policy, given the increase  in premium.
Mr H had a paid a deposit and obviously that would pay for some time on risk. As it turned 
given the calculations by the insurer of this cost of Mr Hs time on risk, Mr Hs views on that 
were correct. Given the insurers confirmation of the cost of the time  on risk which  was 
£107.56 plus U Drives £55 fee for setting up the policy, that amounts  to £162.56. Mr Hs 
deposit which he paid to U Drive was £162.83.
Therefore, that does  show Mr H has effectively  paid for his time on risk plus a reasonable 
fee for U Drive in setting  up the policy. Given Mr H always  wanted to cancel rather  than pay 
an additional  premium,  theres no reason for U Drive to charge  any amendment fees.
Ref: DRN15944143There doesnt appear to be any finance  agreement which was actually signed by Mr H, as 
the email of the finance agreement sent to Mr H as disclosed by U Drive required.  However  I 
consider that if a consumer such as Mr H here,  opted to only pay a deposit  rather  than the 
full premium, then it follows that a finance  agreement would need to be set up for the 
payment of the remainder of the premium. It doesnt  seem like that was effectively set up by 
the time all these premium increases occurred, but I dont consider any of this has much 
bearing on the issue.
I am of the view that Mr H should have been permitted to cancel his policy  rather than have 
the premium increases  forced on him. Therefore I dont  consider it was reasonable to 
instruct debt collectors  to recover the premium  increase. So I agree this caused Mr H some 
trouble and upset  and I consider U Drive should pay Mr H the sum of £50 compensation. 
Thats in line with other awards I have made  in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U Drive Cover  Ltd to do the following:
Write  off any debt it thinks Mr H owes it.
Terminate any instructions to the debt collection agency to recover  it.
Pay Mr H £50 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him in chasing this 
debt. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1594414