K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when it was unable  to 
let her take out a new mortgage  product due to its computer  issues and then in giving 
incorrect information about how the compensation it would offer would be calculated.  Miss M 
wants matters put right.
background
Miss M had a buy-to-let  mortgage with TSB. She wanted to change her mortgage product in 
order to change the interest  rate when  her current rate ended in May.  Miss M said she was 
unable to do so between March and December  2018  due to TSBs computer system. In 
December, Miss M was able to start a new five year product.
Miss M complained to TSB.  She said that it initially said it would refund the difference 
between what she paid and what she shouldve paid on the basis that she shouldve been 
on the best fixed interest rate product  (together with 8% interest  and £250  compensation).  
Miss M was then told the interest rate from the five year product would be used. But TSB 
actually only offered to refund the difference between  what  Miss M paid and what  she 
wouldve paid with a two year fixed interest  rate product (plus  interest  and £250). TSB said 
that it also paid £50 towards  Miss Ms costs.  
Miss M complained to us, and said shed only received £150 for the trouble and upset shed 
suffered and that was in respect of the mis-information about the future compensation to be 
paid. She also noted that she hadnt ever received  a final response letter from TSB. TSB 
offered to pay another £250  compensation in addition to the £150 already paid. 
The adjudicators view was that TSB should do more. He noted that TSB did accept that 
Miss M had been given  incorrect information  about  the way the compensation for her 
financial loss would  be calculated,  which  was why it paid £150  compensation. He said that 
the £250 offered was the standard  package for consumers affected by TSB's computer 
issues and unable to change their product; it didnt take into account the length of Miss Ms 
wait, which  had been lengthened  by TSBs  inability to provide a final response letter and 
failure to pay full compensation. The adjudicator said Miss M should  receive  another  £350 
compensation in total. He thought though that the method of calculation of the financial loss 
was fair and reasonable.
TSB disagreed. While it agreed as to the reasons why it paid £150 compensation, it said that 
other consumers had suffered similar delays  to Miss M and £250 was regarded as fair and 
reasonable compensation for this. TSB also explained why it was required to deduct tax from 
the financial loss compensation and how Miss M could reclaim it. It paid to Miss M the 
compensation, excluding the additional £100 recommended by the adjudicator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to concentrate on the core of 
this complaint. While  I understand Miss M isnt happy that TSB didnt send her a final 
response letter, complaints handling  isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this 
service. I can, and will, look at whether TSB has generally acted fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN12045812The first point to consider  is the actual compensation  offered by financial loss. The use of the 
two year fixed interest rate is fair and reasonable in my view. This is a popular product and 
TSB has made  a decision to use that as the base and treat all affected consumers the same.  
This is a matter of commercial judgement, but I accept its fair to all. Miss M has accepted 
this when discussing the matter with the adjudicator.
That leaves the issue of compensation for the trouble and upset suffered by Miss M due to 
TSBs failings. £150 has already been paid due to the accepted mis-information about the 
future compensation to be paid. But I dont think the standard  £250 compensation fairly and 
reasonably reflects  Miss Ms trouble and upset;  we look at trouble and upset on an individual 
basis. Miss M suffered  additional trouble and upset above that of just the wait to change 
product. She explained to this service  her concerns she felt about how to deal with her tax 
bill while waiting for TSB to resolve matters for example. And Miss M was further affected by 
TSBs inability to give her a final response  letter and its failure to pay any of the financial loss 
compensation in a timely way.
Taking into account Miss Ms circumstances and the trouble and upset  caused  to her by 
TSBs failings, I think £250 isnt fair and reasonable compensation, even allowing for the 
£150 paid for the mis-information given to her. I think  a total of £350 is fair and reasonable 
and reflects  the additional trouble and upset suffered by Miss M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and TSB Bank plc should  pay Miss M another 
£100 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss M to accept  or reject my decision before 3 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1204581