K820x#14complaint
Mr J is complaining that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) has charged him the 
full annual premium  for his car insurance policy even  though  he cancelled it early.
Mr J is represented by his mother  Mrs J  in this complaint. But for ease  of reference I 
shall assume that any comments she made as being made by Mr J.
background
Mr J took out a car insurance policy through Skyfire  in September 2017. He took the policy 
out online and it was arranged through a broker. He paid for it monthly. In May 2018  he 
called to cancel  the policy, but he was told he would have to pay the full annual premium  as 
there was an open claim on the policy. Mr J didnt think this was fair and queried  why there 
was an open claim.
Around five weeks  later Mrs J called Skyfire to get an update on the claim and she was told 
that it was closed as a fault claim. But the call handler didnt explain that the full premium 
would still be payable.  Skyfire acknowledged  this and agreed to reduce the amount Mr J 
owed by £50.
Mr J still doesnt think its fair that Skyfire  is charging him the full annual  premium. And hes 
raised the following points:
1.He thinks he should only be required  to pay for the proportion of the policy hes had;
2.The policy doesnt define what it means by fault claim or the consequences of making 
one;
3.The policy sets out that it doesnt give a refund of the premium  if a claim is made, but it 
doesnt set out that he has to pay the balance of the premium  for the remainder of the 
policy term after the cancellation;
4.The policy sets that that Skyfire will return any premium paid less the days cover that has 
been provided and a £50 cancellation  fee. But in the small print it suggests Mr J may 
have to pay the balance of the full yearly  premium if hes made  a claim in the policy  year. 
But he says it does  not elaborate on what this means. He thinks  this statement is unclear 
and uncertain as to its application.
5.He thinks the terms I onerous, so he said the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) required 
Skyfire to highlight  this term outside of the policy terms. He doesnt think  it did so, so he 
said that this means it cant rely upon  it. 
6.He thinks hes been provided with poor customer service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint as she said that the terms of the contract  set out 
that Mr J has to pay the full annual premium  if he makes a claim on the policy.  And she 
didnt think this was unfair. Mr J didnt agree with the adjudicator  for the following reasons:
1.The express wording  of the policy  doesnt require him to pay the balance of the monthly 
instalment premiums. It says that the insurer  will not refund  any premium if a claim has 
been made, but doesnt say anything  that he has to pay anything  back. And he thinks  if 
thats what the clause is intended  to mean, it would be considered onerous. He also says 
that if theres any ambiguity in the wording of the terms it should be found in his favour.
2.He maintains that Skyfire should have  brought the term to his attention  when he entered  
into the contract.  And he said,  simply requiring him to tick a box doesnt  negate  its 
responsibilities to make  terminology  clear  and to highlight key terms. 
Ref: DRN162003123.He says that he entered into a single  contract for motor insurance  and the internal 
workings set up by the insurer  do not change that fact. 
4.Finally he said the term has potential to be unfair under the CRA  because it says that, 
under a strict application of the policy wording,  the insurer could retain the full annual 
premium even the insurer paid out a very small amount on a claim.
As Mr J didnt  agree, the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Theres no dispute that the policy sets out that the full annual  premium is payable if a claim 
is made on the policy. Mr J says that he thinks this is an onerous term which Skyfire should 
have brought  to his attention. He also sets out that, while it says there wont be a refund, it 
doesnt say that he will have to continue to pay the remaining premiums.
I should first explain that when he took out the insurance policy, Mr J entered into two 
separate contracts  the insurance policy with Skyfire and a separate  loan agreement  with 
another finance provider to pay for the premium.  Mr J chose to pay for the insurance policy 
in monthly instalments. To facilitate  this, the broker arranged for him to enter into a loan 
agreement. The finance provider then paid the annual insurance  premium on Mr Js behalf 
and Mr J agreed to then repay the finance  over a number of monthly  instalments. So the 
monthly payments  Mr J werent monthly premiums,  but were to pay off the finance 
agreement hed entered into.
As the finance  agreement was provided by a different business, Im unable to consider that 
businesss actions  including  whether  its an enforceable  agreement  or whether the interest  
charges are fair  in this decision.
Mr J sets out that the terms of the insurance  policy dont set out that hed have to continue to 
make repayments if he cancelled the policy. But I wouldnt  necessarily expect it to as its a 
separate contract to the finance agreement. If Skyfire was required to provide a refund of the 
premium, it would have  paid the refund to the finance provider who would have  used that 
refund to reduce the amount still owed  on the finance agreement.  But in this case,  as the 
terms of the contract  dont  allow for a premium refund, a refund wasnt  given to the finance 
provider. So the remaining  balance on the finance agreement  remained payable after Mr J 
cancelled the policy. And this is common  industry practice.
However, Im also conscious  that the policy sets out:
If any of the following apply, you may not receive  any refund and you may still have to pay 
us the balance of the full yearly premium.  This applies in all circumstances no matter what 
payment method you use.
You have made a claim  in the policy  year or a claim has been made against your policy.
So the policy  sets out that Mr J may have to pay the balance of the full yearly premium  if 
hed made  a claim on the policy.  So I think  the policy has set this out in its policy terms.
Ref: DRN16200313Mr J says that the wording is ambiguous, so it should be construed  in his favour. But I 
disagree. I think a reasonable interpretation of the policy  term is that the full annual  premium 
is payable if a claim is made on the policy, even if the policy  is cancelled  early.
However, while the policy does specify that the full annual premium  is payable, Ive thought 
about whether  this is fair in the specific circumstances  of this complaint. And I think  it is. 
Ultimately the insurer calculates its annual premium  on the basis  of the risk that it has to 
settle a claim at some point during the policy term. Skyfire has settled Mr Js claim,  so I think 
its carried out its responsibilities under the policy term. Given  this, I think  it was fair for it to 
require Mr J to pay the annual premium. 
Ive taken Mr Js comments  that the insurer could retain the full annual  premium even it paid 
out a very small amount  on a claim into account. And I dont disagree with his comments  in 
this respect. But I need to assess  whether  Skyfire  was applying the terms fairly in the 
specific circumstances of this case. And Ive seen that Skyfire paid out around £5,000  to 
repair Mr Js car. So I dont  think it was unfair  for it to rely on the policy term in the way it has 
in this case.
Finally, Ive considered  Mr Js comments that he thinks Skyfire  should have highlighted the 
policy term to him when he bought the policy. It wouldnt be practical to require an insurer  to 
highlight every exclusion clause that might impact  a policyholder. I agree with Mr J that 
Skyfire was required to highlight significant and unusual terms before he bought  the policy.  
But I dont think this term would be considered  significant or unusual. 
I think almost  every  annual car insurance policy on the market that says the full annual  
premium is payable if a claim is made  during the policy term. The regulator has specified  
that it would  consider a significant  exclusion to be one that would tend to affect the decision 
of consumers generally to buy. I note Mr J said that he wouldnt have bought  this insurance 
policy had he known  about it. But I dont think he could have bought an annual  policy  that 
didnt contain  this premium. While I dont dispute that the term has subsequently impacted 
him, I cant say that this term would have affected his decision making  at the time.  So I dont 
think it was a significant term, which means  that I dont think Skyfire needed to highlight  it.
But, even  if I did think it was a significant  term which Skyfire didnt bring to his attention,  it 
doesnt automatically follow that Skyfire  cant rely upon the term. In these circumstances, Id 
need to think about what Mr J would have done  differently had this term been highlighted to 
him. I note Mr J says that he wouldnt have  bought  the policy.  But he needed to insurer  his 
car. And, as I said, I dont think he would have been  able to take out an annual insurance  
policy that didnt  contain a similar  policy term. So I think he would have  still found  himself in 
the same  position.  So I cant  say that hes lost out as a result of whats happened.
So, while I sympathise with the situation  Mr J has found himself in, I cant say that Skyfire  
has acted unfairly. 
Mr J has said that he cant afford to refund the amount  hes being asked to repay. But hell 
need to discuss  this with the finance provider.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN16200314Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1620031