K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited  (SDFC) has treated him 
unfairly in relation to his shopping  catalogue  account. 
background
I understand that Mr W opened  a shopping catalogue account with SDFC in 2011. 
Mr W previously complained to SDFC in 2017  regarding a payment to his account  that 
wasnt correctly charged to the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL)  facility. As a result, Mr W had to 
pay deferred interest. SDFC didnt agree to uphold  Mr Ws complaint  but it says that as a 
gesture of goodwill, it refunded some account  charges and the deferred  BNPL interest.
Mr W says that he then wanted to pay off his outstanding balance. He says he was told on 
the telephone by SDFC that someone would contact him with payment instructions.
Mr W says that SDFC failed to contact him as promised. He says he tried to contact SDFC 
to follow  up, but his account fell into arrears  and later defaulted. 
SDFC says that after Mr Ws previous complaint was resolved  around June 2017, he was 
left with an outstanding account  balance of just under £700. SDFC says it requested 
payments from Mr W, but he failed to make  any payments and so further charges were 
added. SDFC  says that it has searched  its system, but it has not located a call from Mr W 
where he was told that someone would call him back regarding paying  the outstanding 
balance. SDFC says that it has however found  a record of two contact attempts from July 
2017 where SDFC tried unsuccessfully  to contact Mr W to discuss the arrears on his 
account. 
SDFC says a temporary payment plan was put in place with Mr W, but he failed to maintain 
this plan and a default notice was issued in December 2017. SDFC says the debt was sold 
to a third party in January 2018.
Mr W has complained that SDFC has not acknowledged that a member of staff was 
supposed to send him a link to make a payment or that someone was supposed to call him. 
He says he is willing to pay his debt, but he doesnt  think he should  pay interest and he 
wants his credit file amended. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ws complaint. She didnt think  SDFC had treated Mr 
W unfairly when it defaulted his account  and she didnt think  that SDFC should be asked to 
do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19601402Weve set out our general approach to complaints about customer credit - including  all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good  industry practice - on our website.
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments  and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr W.
I think its likely that Mr W did have a conversation with SDFC where he was left with the 
impression that someone  from SDFC would contact  him  either by email  or telephone.  The  
fact that SDFC has not been able to find a record  of that conversation is not surprising  in 
my experience customer contact records going  back several years can sometimes  be 
incomplete. 
But even if SDFC had told Mr W that it would  call him back and then it didnt do so, I dont 
think this potential failure in customer service  meant  that Mr W didnt need to proactively  
manage his account  going forward. 
Mr W might  have felt let down by what he saw as poor customer  service  on the part of 
SDFC. He may well have been expecting SDFC to contact  him to follow up the conversation  
about paying off his outstanding balance. But when no such call came, I think  Mr W ought 
reasonably to have  assumed that his request had been forgotten  or not passed onto the 
right person.  Or that there was some other reason why he wasnt being contacted  as he 
expected.
Mr W says every time he called SDFC, it failed to deal with the matter. But I think  Mr W was 
aware how to make  payments to his account  as he had operated the account  for a number 
of years.  From what I have seen, SDFC did try to make Mr W aware that his account was in 
arrears, but it was unable  to reach  him by telephone. It seems that SDFC also sent 
statements to Mr W and it tried to set up an affordable repayment plan with him, but he didnt 
maintain that plan.  Quite some time went by from the time that Mr W says he was told that 
he would  be contacted about paying off his outstanding balance, to the date that his account  
defaulted. I think Mr W would have been  aware  during  this period that his account was in 
arrears and that he could  make payments  into it. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think it was SDFCs  fault that Mr Ws account went 
into arrears or later defaulted. And I dont  think that SDFC has treated  Mr W unfairly  or 
unreasonably  even if it might not have got everything right in its customer service.
I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but Id like to reassure him that Ive looked 
very carefully at all the information that both he and SDFC have provided  about this matter.  
Having done so, I am not upholding the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint or make any award 
against Shop Direct Finance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Ref: DRN19601403Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1960140