K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains on behalf of her son, Mr W, that HSBC UK Bank Plc applied  excessive 
overdraft charges to his bank account. To put things right,  Mr W wants  them  to refund all of 
the charges that have been  applied in the last 6 years.
background
Mrs B has told us that Mr W struggles with mental  health issues,  and has difficulty managing 
his finances. She says hes contacted  HSBC  a number of times and asked them  not to allow 
him to go overdrawn.  But HSBC didnt  do anything to help him.
Mrs B has explained that the charges HSBC have applied to Mr Ws account as a result of 
him going overdrawn have left him in financial difficulty. As a result hes been unable to eat 
properly, or use his heating. This has had a negative impact on his health, and hes been 
admitted to hospital  on a few occasions.
In April 2018 Mr W complained to HSBC asking them to refund charges he says total 
£1,122. But HSBC didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They explained that in some 
situations they allow customers to take an unarranged overdraft when there  isnt sufficient 
money in their account to meet a payment. They said they make these decisions individually, 
but they always try to approve payments where they can, as they understand the 
embarrassment a declined payment can cause. They felt they had applied charges  to Mr 
Ws account correctly, so werent  able to refund them.
Mr W didnt think  was fair. So Mrs B has helped him to bring his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  think it would  be fair to ask HSBC  to refund Mr W all of the money he 
was asking for. They didnt feel HSBC were  aware, or should have been aware, of his 
circumstances until he raised  his complaint with them. But the investigator  did ask HSBC  to 
refund Mr W two months of charges,  totalling £160  plus 8% interest, which  were  applied 
when Mr W was no longer using his account.
HSBC didnt agree with this decision.  They felt they had applied the charges correctly  
throughout the whole  period, and didnt think they should have to refund any of them. Mrs B, 
on behalf of Mr W, wasnt  happy with our investigators view either. She feels the bank 
should have recognised Mr Ws situation  and taken action to help him. So the case  has been 
passed to me to review.
my provisional decision
I sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties on 24 April 2019. A summary of my 
provisional findings is as follows; 
I appreciated that Mr W has consistently  gone overdrawn on his account and 
incurred charges as a result of unarranged (also referred to as informal)  overdrafts 
provided by HSBC, which he didnt want them to give him.
HSBC explained  that its their policy  to give unarranged overdrafts where  possible 
when a customer authorises a payment that takes their account overdrawn.  And 
HSBC are entitled to have this policy  so I cant say that this in itself is unfair.
Ref: DRN19031652HSBC applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And a 
2009 Supreme  Court  ruling found,  in summary, that these types of charges cant be 
challenged for being  too high. So whilst I understand Mrs B and Mr W consider them  
to be excessive, I couldnt investigate whether they were  unreasonable  on those  
grounds alone. 
I was satisfied HSBC  notified Mr W about  all of the charges, and how to avoid them.
I understood Mr W spoke to his branch on a number of occasions and asked them 
not to let him go overdrawn. But I cant see any evidence that he let HSBC know he 
was struggling financially  until he raised  a complaint in April 2018.  
Whilst I appreciated Mrs B felt HSBC should have realised Mr W needed some help 
from them sooner, I didnt think it would be fair for me to say that this was case. Mr W 
had previous contact  with them  about his account  which  would have indicated to 
them he was in control of his finances.  And whilst hed gone  overdrawn on a number 
of occasions,  often this was only for a short period of time. And his account was 
being credited  regularly. HSBC had also let him know in letters theyd sent that he 
could contact them, or other organisations, if he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
When Mr W did tell HSBC he was in financial difficulty they asked  him to contact their 
Financial Guidance  Team. When they didnt hear from him they sent him another  
letter, again  asking  him to do this so that they could review his circumstances  and 
explore ways they could help him with his financial problems. 
The regulatory requirements say that a bank should treat customers who are in 
financial difficulty positively and sympathetically.  And wed expect to see that the 
bank had taken  steps to try and understand the customers  problems and do what  it 
can to help them. I thought HSBC had done  this here when  they asked Mr W to 
contact them to discuss his situation. So whilst I understood Mr W didnt do so, I 
thought HSBC acted reasonably. And I didnt think it would  be fair for me to ask 
HSBC to refund Mr W any charges. 
I could see that our investigator  provided Mrs B with the details for some 
organisations that might be able to assist  Mr W with some independent advice. And I 
encouraged Mr W to speak with these organisations, and notify  any other banks he 
has accounts with, if he felt he was still in financial difficulty and needed help 
managing his finances.
responses to my provisional  decision  and my further findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC didnt make any comments on my provisional decision. Mrs B responded and said 
that she was very disappointed with my provisional  decision, and feels that I should take into 
account the fact that Mr W wasnt in a position to deal with his finances. She said that he 
often doesnt open letters and finds it hard to communicate.
I do sympathise with Mr W, and I appreciate this has been an upsetting experience. But 
I still dont think it would  be fair for me to say that HSBC did anything wrong here as they 
werent aware of his difficulties, and I dont feel they reasonably ought to have been. For 
example, I dont think the bank would reasonably know that Mr W might not open letters until 
several (that required some form of contact from Mr W) had not been responded to. So I 
think my provisional findings are accurate.
Ref: DRN19031653I appreciate Mrs B and Mr W will be very disappointed, but I have to be fair to both sides. 
Mrs B has said she hopes that the earlier offer to refund the charges applied  in the two 
months prior to Mr W closing his account still stands. But this was an award  put forward  by 
our investigator, rather than HSBC. HSBC didnt agree to pay this. And as I havent found  
that HSBC acted unreasonably or made a mistake, I cant  direct  them  to refund any charges 
to Mr W.
I understand Mr W has now closed his account with HSBC.  But I would still encourage him 
to contact any other financial businesses he has accounts with if he feels he is in financial  
difficulty and needs help with his finances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons I have outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B, on behalf  of 
Mr W, to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1903165