K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the decision by U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  to decline a 
claim for accidental damage under her landlord  insurance policy  after she says her property 
was damaged by ingress of water.
 
background
Miss S owned a property which she rented out. She made a claim to UKI, saying the 
property had been damaged by water entering  through the roof. 
UKI arranged for its surveyor  to visit the property. The surveyor reported  there  was no 
evidence of storm damage to the roof. He concluded that the failure of the roof was not as a 
result of an insured  peril and thus its repair  wasnt covered  by the policy.  He further 
concluded that the internal damage  to the property, which was to the walls and ceiling of a 
bedroom, wasnt recent or fortuitous and thus wasnt covered by the accidental damage  
section of the policy.
Miss S obtained a quote to repair the damage  to the roof area which  she provided to UKI. 
She accepted that the point of entry of the water (failed flashing on a pipe in the roof) wasnt  
covered under the policy. However, she considered  that the damage from the resulting water 
ingress to the roofing under the tiles (to the batons  and the membrane), as well as to the 
internal walls and ceiling, should  be classed  as accidental  damage.
UKI wasnt persuaded by the quote provided  by Miss S that it was liable under the policy for 
any repairs. It nonetheless agreed  for another surveyor  to visit the property. After receiving 
the second surveyors report,  it stood  by its decision to decline the claim.
Miss S was unhappy  at UKIs response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that UKI had acted  fairly.
Miss S didnt accept  the investigators  findings. She said she carefully  maintained the 
property and had no way of knowing there was a problem with the flashing  until water  
ingress occurred following  a significant  rainfall. She acknowledged there was a small amount  
of mould in the bedroom but she said this was unrelated to the water ingress and hence was 
not part of her claim. She couldnt understand why her claim for accidental damage  should 
be declined.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Miss S accepts that the damage to the flashing on her roof didnt occur  as a result  of an 
insured peril,  such as a storm.  However,  she believes the resulting ingress  of water caused 
damage and that this should be covered under the accidental damage  section  of her policy. 
This is the issue on which I am therefore focussing in this decision. 
Ref: DRN18087982The policy states  that cover is provided for accidental damage, though it doesnt define what 
this means. The policy  does say, however, that accidental  damage cover doesnt apply if the 
damage is caused by:
inherent vice, latent defect, gradual  deterioration,  wear and tear, frost, change  in water table
level, its own faulty or defective design  or materials
In this case, any damage due to water ingress  was ultimately caused by a failure  in the 
flashing which Miss S accepts is a maintenance issue. However,  Miss S says she couldnt 
have reasonably known about  the failure of the flashing until the water ingress occurred, and 
that that UKI should therefore accept the claim.
The quote  which Miss S obtained for repairs to the roof suggested that the batons and 
membrane needed replacing to fix a problem  of condensation which was causing  damp  in 
the bedroom. There was no mention of water  damage to these items. I cant  see how 
replacement of the batons and membrane  is required  as a result of accidental  damage.
When the first surveyor attended  the property, he noticed a previous stain  block in the corner 
cupboard and considered that this indicated an ongoing issue  of water ingress. Furthermore, 
the tenant confirmed that some months  earlier, the managing agent had asked them  if the 
roof had leaked which, the surveyor concluded,  also suggested that there had been a 
previous problem. Also, Miss S apparently confirmed that there  had been  a similar problem 
at the property some two or three years earlier which the managing  agents  had resolved,  
though she wasnt  sure what work had been done. I consider that this all serves  to suggest 
that the damage in the bedroom was chiefly caused by ongoing  issues rather than any 
sudden, recent event.
UKI nonetheless arranged  for a second  surveyor to attend the property. The second 
surveyor noted the wall and ceiling in the bedroom had been stained by a water leak but also 
noted that these  areas had pre-existing damage  from a condensation issue.  On this basis,  
UKI maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Overall, it seems that, outside of the failed flashing (which Miss S accepts is not covered), 
the main problem with the property is the condensation issue  which  has affected the 
bedroom and has necessitated the replacement of the batons and membrane. The 
condensation issue appears to be ongoing  and I dont think  it can reasonably be classed as 
accidental damage.  While there may have been additional damage caused by the recent 
ingress of water, it seems that this occurred on surfaces which were already damaged and in 
need of repair.  Therefore,  m not persuaded  that Miss S has necessarily suffered a loss due 
to accidental damage.
After taking everything into account, I consider  it was fair for UKI to decline Miss Ss claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN18087983Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1808798