K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about an error  made by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited with respect 
to a pension plan he held with them, and the way in which Aviva  has sought to put matters  
right. He has concerns that Aviva has provided  insufficient detail  about  the background of 
the review and insufficient detail about  how the redress had been calculated.  Mr B also has 
concerns about  the independence of those conducting the review, Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) oversight and other governance issues. Mr B would like more detail about 
the relationship  between  various entities within Aviva.  He also disagrees  with the interest  
rate Aviva has applied  when calculating compensation and the way in which it has made  a 
deduction for tax. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2021. A copy is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out that I was intending to uphold the 
complaint in some respects. I also set out how I thought compensation should be calculated. 
Aviva responded and said it accepted  the provisional decision,  saying  that it would calculate 
compensation subject  to provision of the relevant  information by Mr B.
Mr B did not accept the provisional decision. Mr B has made  further submissions about how 
his complaint has been handled by this service  and my provisional findings. Mr Bs complaint 
about the service  he has received from the Ombudsman Service  is being considered 
separately. I will set out and consider  the submissions that are materially relevant  to the 
outcome of this complaint. I will not necessarily consider  every  point that has been 
submitted.  
With respect to the merits of the complaint about Aviva, Mr B, in summary:
Questioned whether  Aviva has supplied all the information requested of it, or all the 
information that it should provide  for the appropriate resolution of this complaint. He 
said that, if it has failed  to provide such information, it is has not been explained why 
we have ignored that failure. 
Said that Aviva has not supplied sufficient information so that he can check its 
calculations. It has not justified  its position as to the payment  of interest  and it has not 
been asked to justify that position. It has also not seemingly  been  supplied with some 
of his submissions.   
Said that I could  consider making an award  that was not only a financial sum. 
Said that it has not been demonstrated  that Avivas calculations are correct. He said 
that Aviva had previously made errors and had a vested interest  in how it carried  out 
the calculation.  
Said it was misleading to say his complaint had been upheld when only the matter  of 
the interest to be applied  had been upheld. He confirmed  he was not submitting any 
evidence as to the matter  of interest  and he had nothing further to add in relation to 
his claim for interest at 8% per annum.  
Ref: DRN15998842Said Avivas reattribution payment did not correctly include loss to reflect under-
growth of investments  that arose from switching policies out of its With Profits  fund. 
And he should also receive  an increase  in reattribution payment to reflect  changes in 
the value of the company. It is incorrect to assume that Aviva had correctly  calculated 
the compensation in relation to the reattribution  payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has been provided with the information and evidence  upon  which  I based  my 
provisional decision and upon which I will base  this decision. And we have also confirmed to 
Mr B that we had provided the information required as result  of his data subject access  
request (DSAR). Mr B has been  given sufficient opportunity to make  further  submissions.  So 
it is now appropriate for me to proceed  to review the complaint and issue a final decision.
As I confirmed in the attached provisional decision,  Mr B has made  significant  submissions, 
including those made after I issued the provisional  decision, about the actions of Aviva and 
what is necessary to put matters right. I have considered all his submissions  but will 
concentrate in this decision  on the matters that I believe  are material  to the outcome of his 
complaint.
In my view Aviva has supplied the information  and evidence that I require to reach a decision 
that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I do not need it to supply any further 
information or any further information that Mr B has requested. That,  for example, includes 
further detail about how it calculated the value of Mr Bs plan or the redress  it awarded to 
him. I have  set out my findings as to this issue in the attached provisional decision. But, for 
completeness, Aviva  has provided  sufficient information as to how it has calculated the sum 
due to Mr B, including in respect of the reattribution,  and I do not believe it should  provide 
more. It is for me to decide  what evidence is necessary  to reach  a fair and reasonable 
decision in a given  complaint. I have  not seen evidence that it has calculated the sum due to 
Mr B incorrectly or has likely to have done  so. 
I can make  an award other  than purely  financial.  For example, I can make  directions that the 
business carry out some action. But here I felt that that fair redress  in resolution  of the 
complaint was for Aviva to carry out a calculation that may result in a financial award to Mr 
B. I have taken into account  Mr Bs submissions but remain of the view that this is fair 
redress in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN15998843fair compensation
In the provisional  decision  I explained that I did uphold Mr Bs complaint in respect of the 
return that should be applied from the point he transferred his pension. I set out my view as 
to how any loss should be calculated. However,  in order  for that redress calculation to be 
carried out I explained that Mr B needed  to provide  some further information. Mr B has 
declined to do that. If he does not provide that information then it will not be possible for 
Aviva to calculate if any loss has been  caused. 
To reiterate,  the redress I set out in the provisional decision was to apply  a rate of return  to 
the loss sum (that is, on the balance between what was transferred and the higher  sum that 
would have been transferred had the error not occurred), equivalent to whatever return  was 
obtained on the pension value after it had been transferred. That would be applied for the 
period in which Mr Bs pension remained  invested.
As Mr B has not confirmed what happened to his pension after it was transferred and says 
he will not supply that information, I will have to formulate redress based  on his decision not 
to comply with my request. As Mr B transferred a pension plan I will assume for the 
purposes of redress that it remained invested up to the date of this final decision. 
Should Mr B accept my final decision  within the period set out under my final decision 
below and supply  Aviva with sufficient detail  as to what happened  with his pension  after it 
was referred so that it can calculate the compensation  I set out with 1 month of his 
acceptance, then I order Aviva to calculate compensation as follows:
Aviva should  calculate  and pay Mr B the sum of A + B, where: 
A  The loss sum Aviva calculated as at the date Mr B transferred his pension.
B  A return on A equivalent  to the investment return achieved  on the pension after it was 
transferred, to the date of my final decision. 
As Mr B has not confirmed what happened with his pension after it was transferred I am not 
allowing for any compensation  based on him taking income from his pension or vesting the 
benefits. I believe it is reasonable  in the circumstances to base redress  on it remaining 
invested. If the pension did not remain invested  for the entire period between  transfer  and 
the date of this final decision, then Aviva can apply the average  rate of return achieved  for 
the period it remained  invested for the entire  period  between transfer and the date of this 
final decision. 
I do not make any further award for the inconvenience and upset Mr B has been caused as 
Aviva has already offered to pay a fair amount in this respect.
Ref: DRN15998844my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  but only in respect  of the rate of return  that should be applied to 
the loss sum Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  calculated after his pension was transferred. 
I award the compensation set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2021.  If he accepts my decision then he will have the 
period of one month from the date of his acceptance to supply  Aviva  with the necessary 
information so that it can calculate my award.  If he does not provide that information within  
one month  of acceptance of my final decision then Aviva will not have to calculate  or pay my 
award.  
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN15998845copy provisional decision 
complaint
In summary, Mr B has complained about an error  made by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited with 
respect to a pension plan he held with them, and the way in which Aviva has sought to put matters 
right. He has concerns that Aviva has provided  insufficient detail about the background of the review 
and insufficient detail about how the redress had been calculated. Mr B also has concerns about  the 
independence of those conducting the review, Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) oversight and other 
governance issues. Mr B would like more detail  about the relationship between  various  entities within  
Aviva. He also disagrees with the interest rate Aviva has applied when calculating compensation  and 
the way in which it has made a deduction for tax. 
background
Mr B had a Free Standing Additional  Voluntary Contribution Plan (FSAVC) with Aviva.  This was 
invested in the with-profits fund. When the selected retirement age was reached for that plan he did 
not take his benefits  at that time. Aviva then changed the selected retirement
age to 75 and switched his holdings  in the existing  with-profits fund to another  fund in line with what 
was believed to be the policy  conditions  at that time.
In 2009 Mr B received  a payment from Aviva in respect of a reattribution  of the with-profits
fund in which  he was invested. In 2013 my understanding is that Mr B transferred his FSAVC to 
another provider. 
In July 2018  Aviva wrote  to Mr B because it had identified it had made  a mistake
regarding the earlier fund switch at selected retirement age. It explained  that it shouldnt have 
switched funds  at this time. Aviva had discovered that there were two versions of Terms  & Conditions 
attaching to the FSAVC  product and those  relevant  to Mr Bs plan did not necessitate the above fund 
switch.
As a result, Mr Bs plan value had grown  at a slower  rate than it would have,  had it remained
in the with-profits fund. Aviva  calculated the loss and offered Mr B a sum in compensation.  This 
included an amount for the difference  in growth, plus interest at Bank of Interest Base Rate  + 1 %, 
less an amount for tax at the basic rate.  
Mr B raised concerns broadly as set out above. Aviva provided some further information  but Mr B did 
not believe that was sufficient and he referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint.  He thought  that Aviva had put matters right 
and he did not believe  further action was necessary. He did not believe that the length of time it has 
taken Aviva to identify  its error and rectify it justified  further compensation. He explained  that it was 
sufficient for Aviva to put matters right  compensating Mr B for its error. He explained that this 
service does not make  punitive  awards. 
He also did not believe that an independent actuary was required to check  the accuracy of Avivas  
calculation and could  not see anything wrong with its calculations. So he did not believe  it was 
necessary for it to supply further information about  the calculation. He thought  that Aviva had applied  
a fair rate of interest and that it had applied the correct tax deduction. He thought the amount offered 
by Aviva for the upset  and inconvenience caused was sufficient.  
Mr B did not accept the investigators  findings. In summary he:
Made some submissions about  the operation of this service, information  this service  provides 
and about how his complaint  had been  handled.
Ref: DRN15998846Said it had not been made clear to him whether  any other  entities in the Aviva group should  
be included in his complaint and Aviva should  have  been  asked to confirm  whether  it was 
entirely responsible or not. 
Said Avivas long delay in dealing with the issue is relevant and he does not accept that this 
service cannot make  an award for a companys failure to identify an error sooner. 
The information Aviva  supplied to him was not sufficient  for him to be able to assess whether 
it had calculated the compensation correctly  and this is why he had requested further 
information. The compensation calculation had not been  verified.  The comments  the 
investigator had made about the FCA had to be seen  against the FCAs  failings.
He does  not agree  how interest  is being  calculated.
His comments about re-attribution  had been ignored.
He does  not accept any other matters set out by the investigator.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made significant  submissions about the actions of Aviva and what is necessary to put 
matters right. I have considered all his submissions but will concentrate in this decision on the matters  
that I believe are material to the outcome of his complaint.
Mr B has asked for this service to carry out various  actions with respect to its operation and the 
information it supplies. These  matters are not relevant to the outcome of this complaint,  which is what 
I am considering here. Mr B can raise  those  issues separately  if he wishes and I understand he has 
already done so by means of a complaint  about our service. 
Although I do appreciate Mr Bs position about  the actions  of Aviva,  I would  confirm that my role is not 
to fine or punish businesses for their actions. My role is to investigate individual complaints and if I 
believe some incorrect or unsuitable action has been taken by that business, decide if the consumer 
had been disadvantaged. If they have  been financially disadvantaged my aim is to direct the business  
to reasonably make  good that loss. I do not award compensation over and above  that, although  I can 
make awards  for inconvenience or upset the matter  has caused. 
I say this because Mr B has asked that any compensation is viewed in the context of the time it took 
Aviva to identify its error.  I can understand Mr Bs feelings, but an additional amount of that nature is 
not necessary to put him back in the position he would  be in (which is what  I am concerned with). My 
role would be to consider  what error has been made and then make an award  which puts Mr B back  
in the position he would be in had the error  not occurred. I would  reiterate that my role is not to make 
awards that have the aim of punishing businesses for their actions;  the Financial  Ombudsman Service 
is not the industry regulator, that is the FCA.  
I can see that Aviva sent a letter to Mr B dated 26 July 2018. In that letter it said it had undertaken a 
review that had identified an error in the way it had administered Mr Bs plan.  It said that when  Mr B 
reached his selected retirement  date his pension benefits were deferred and his investment was 
switched from with-profits to another fund. This shouldnt  have happened.  This had disadvantaged  Mr 
B as the growth  rate on this alternate fund was less than it would have been had Mr B remained 
invested in the with-profit fund. It set out that the sum it was offering was in respect of the lost growth 
plus interest, less an amount  for tax. It confirmed that the value had been adjusted  to take account  of 
re-attribution from the with profit fund.
Ref: DRN15998847Essentially this complaint  distils to concerns  about Avivas error, what  the compensation should  be 
and how Aviva has calculated  the compensation. 
In my view the basis  of Avivas redress is appropriate  in the circumstances. It seeks  to compensate 
for any loss brought  about by being invested in the incorrect fund. Aviva has calculated what loss has 
been caused  by that and offered to make that good. I do not believe it should  do more  than this in this 
respect. 
In my view Aviva has provided sufficient information as to how it has carried out its redress 
calculation. It has confirmed this has been carried out under an actuarial exercise.  It has also 
confirmed that it has included  the effect of earlier  enhancements to the with-profits fund and set out 
how it did that. There is no reason to believe  this is incorrect and I do not believe  there is any 
persuasive reason why Aviva should provide  further detail as to its methodology. 
In terms of the tax applied, the redress does relate to a pension plan and therefore it is reasonable to 
assume that tax will be payable  on some  of the loss sum (Aviva has allowed  for tax free cash  when 
determining the tax to apply). That rate is appropriate in the circumstances. If Mr B believes that the 
rate is too high or he would not be liable for tax, then he can approach HMRC to reclaim some or all 
of the tax. 
In terms of an award for the inconvenience or upset caused, as I have discussed I do not make 
awards that seek to fine or punish businesses for their actions.  So I have considered  Avivas  actions 
and the nature of any inconvenience or upset that would  have caused.  Aviva informed  Mr B of its 
error in 2018  and immediately informed  him of the steps it had taken  to put matters right, which were 
appropriate in the circumstances. I believe that would have caused Mr B some inconvenience but 
given the notification and the immediate rectification, I believe its offer of £150 is fair in the 
circumstances. So I will not award a further sum in that respect.  
In respect of the interest Aviva has supplied,  Mr B is correct that this service  will often (but not 
exclusively) award interest at 8% simple for late payment (which, dependent on the period, can result 
in a higher  or lower amount than the application of Bank of England + 1% would yield). In this case  it 
seems to be that Aviva  has used an interest rate as a proxy for investment return  and/or late payment  
of money. Subject to any further submissions I do not currently believe  that is the right approach  in 
the specific  circumstances  of this case. 
My understanding is that Mr B transferred his pension value to another  provider  around 2013. I do not 
know what happened with respect  to the pension  after that point. It might have remained invested or 
Mr B could have taken  his benefits in some way. If it remained invested then my view would be that 
whatever return was obtained on the pension  value  should  be applied to the loss amount (that is, on 
the balance between what was transferred and the higher sum that would  have been transferred had 
the error not occurred). That would  be applied for the period in which Mr Bs pension  remained 
invested. If he took benefits in some way then that would be a factor that should  be taken into account  
 it may well be that 8% simple interest would  need to be applied to, for example, any annuity income.   
I would ask that Mr B provide detail in response to this provisional decision as to what  happened with 
his pension (and when) after it was transferred.  It  may well be that I would  be able to issue a final 
decision without this information.  
In terms of Mr Bs request that the Aviva  entities  involved are determined, Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited has addressed the complaint and offered redress for the error. That is the material issue  and I 
have considered whether  what  it has offered  is a fair resolution to the complaint.  Whether or not other 
Aviva group entities might  have also been  involved is not relevant to the outcome of this complaint or 
the appropriate  resolution. 
Ref: DRN15998848my provisional  decision
I currently believe the complaint should be upheld but only in respect of the matters I have discussed  
above. I have suggested what I believe would be fair compensation  in the circumstances. 
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1599884