K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about a treatment package that was financed through a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with etika Finance UK Limited  (trading  as Paybreak).
background
Miss B entered into a contract with a supplier  Ill call S in June 2017. The contract stated
that Miss B would be provided with the following:
A package of 12 facials
A facial toning device
The total cost of the package came to £1,700 and was to be paid with a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Paybreak Limited (now  known as etika Finance UK Limited, trading as 
Paybreak) (Paybreak).
S ceased to trade and Paybreak  contacted  Miss B to let her know  this. By that time, Miss B 
had received only some of the treatments as outlined  in the contract. 
Miss B complained to Paybreak about  what had happened.  She said that she shouldnt have 
to make any payments  because S had ceased trading and that her credit file should not be 
affected by this. Miss B also said that there  had been a breach of contract by S which  made 
Paybreak liable under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
In response, Paybreak said they acknowledged  that there had been a breach of contract 
with S and that they had sourced a replacement supplier  to complete the contract, but Miss 
B had declined this offer.  Paybreak  said to Miss B that they would offer a refund for the 
unused elements of the contract  but would require payment for the parts  of the contract that 
she had received. They told Miss B the contract was for 12 facial treatments,  three of which 
were 100% discounted  which  meant  that nine facial treatments were  chargeable. Paybreak 
attributed a cost of £188.89  to each of the nine chargeable facials  and calculated that Miss B 
was due to pay a total of £755.55  to them.
Miss B wasnt happy with Paybreaks response  and so asked our service to look at her 
complaint. She told us that S had been  trading  fraudulently  and that she wasnt aware that 
she had taken out finance with Paybreak. Miss B also told us that she had attended a 
meeting with a lawyer  who had told her that she was entitled to a full refund of the payments 
shed made.  Miss B had therefore  asked her bank to indemnify all these payments.
After Miss B referred her complaint to us, Paybreak  contacted her to say that they had 
recalculated her liability to them. Paybreak  said that they had now calculated that S had 
contracted to provide Miss B with 13 individual  elements, and that they had attributed an 
equal cost of £130.77 to these. They said that Miss Bs liability to them  now stood at 
£1,046.15.
Our investigator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint but said,  in summary, that she wasnt  
persuaded that the goods and services provided by S werent  genuine and as such she 
should be liable for the treatments she had received. She said that there was no persuasive  
evidence that the treatments Miss B had received were carried  out without reasonable care 
or skill.  
Ref: DRN16453112Our investigator said though that the replacement supplier that had been offered by 
Paybreak didnt  give repeat performance of the contract that was to be provided by S. So, 
she felt that Miss B was entitled to a price reduction  of the value of the goods and services 
that werent provided by S, which totalled £653.85. However,  she said that Miss B ought to 
have raised any concerns  about  the loan agreement with Paybreak if she was concerned 
that she hadnt signed a physical agreement with them.  And she said that, even if the 
agreement had been set up without Miss Bs knowledge, she would still have  found  it 
reasonable that Miss B should pay for the treatments she had received. 
Miss B replied  highlighting the information from the lawyer which  said that S had operated  a 
scam. She said she didnt  understand why she was not then entitled to a refund. So, Miss B 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
Since then,  Miss B sent further submissions to us and said,  in summary,  that the point of 
entering into the contract was to get a significantly improved skin and that this would only be 
achieved upon  full completion  of the treatment package. Miss B also reiterated  that this had 
been a fraud  and that she should  not be asked to pay any money back. 
Miss Bs complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.                                                                                                                                                   
  
Where necessary and/or appropriate,  I reach  my decision on a balance of probabilities  that
is, what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in the light of the available evidence and
the wider surrounding circumstances.
When considering  if Paybreak  acted fairly and reasonably in how its dealt with Miss Bs
request that she isnt liable for any payments under the loan agreement, I take into account 
relevant law. In this case, Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 makes  Paybreak 
responsible for a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier.
In this case, its not disputed that there has been a breach of contract. Namely, that S hasnt
been able to conform to the contract to provide  Miss B with the goods  and services that were
to be provided under  the terms of the contract. As Miss B paid for the provision of those
goods and services using credit  financed by Paybreak, Miss B has a like claim for breach of
contract against Paybreak if the requirements of Section 75 have been met. I am satisfied
that those requirements  have been met.
So, it follows  that Miss B is entitled to a remedy for the breach of contract. As she bought
goods and services under a sales contract, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant
here.
I note though that Miss B says that she wasnt aware she had entered  into a finance
agreement with Paybreak. 
Ref: DRN16453113By entering  into a finance agreement, Miss B is afforded the protection  that Section 75 gives,
namely that she can hold Paybreak equally liable for any breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by S. That is the basis on which Im considering this case. If such a
finance agreement  wasnt in place, then Miss B would likely have to take action against  S
herself. I wouldnt  be able to look at any alleged breach  of contract  or misrepresentation 
against S, as a case against S, as that falls outside of our remit. S only falls within  our 
jurisdiction as a credit  broker. And S is now in liquidation which would  further complicate any 
complaint made against them.
I note also that Miss Bs finance  agreement is interest-free. So, technically she isnt paying
any more to Paybreak than would have  been  owed to S under its contract with her.
However, I have looked into the circumstances surrounding the brokering of the finance
agreement by S.
As S is now no longer trading, it wont be possible for me to ask them  how they went about
explaining how the financial arrangement would work between themselves, Miss B, and
Paybreak. Instead, our investigator asked Paybreak for evidence  that they sent details of a 
finance agreement  to Miss B.
Paybreak sent copies of several e-mails that they say were sent to Miss Bs e-mail
address which  included a link to the finance agreement and confirmation of a direct  debit
being set up. So, it seems  likely  that Paybreak  did send these to Miss Bs e-mail address 
although its of course  possible that Miss B may not have seen them (for example, these 
may have  ended up in a junk folder).
That doesnt  necessarily  mean of course  that Miss B was clearly informed by S of the
intended financial arrangement.  And Miss B has given  her version of events where she says
she was not told about Paybreaks  involvement.
However, I havent seen  any evidence that shows that Miss Bs payments each month  were  
going to S. I would have thought Miss B would have raised this had she seen an unfamiliar 
name on her bank statement each month. And, as Ive mentioned above, Miss B wasnt  
paying anything  extra to Paybreak that she didnt already know  was being paid to S under 
the terms of the contract.  Plus, the finance  agreement does afford  her the rights  under 
Section 75 that Ive also mentioned. So, taking  everything into account, I wont  be upholding 
this part of Miss Bs complaint. 
Ill move  on now to the breach of contract  by S. It seems that Paybreak originally sought  to
source a replacement supplier for S, so that the contract could be completed in full. 
However, Miss B declined  that offer. 
Section 54 of the CRA mentions the following:
(3) If the service does not conform to the contract,  the consumers rights (and the provisions
about them  and when they are available) are:
(a) the right to require  repeat performance;
(b) the right to a price  reduction.
Ref: DRN16453114Miss B didnt ask Paybreak for repeat  performance of the contract and that isnt disputed.  
So, the next step would be for Miss B to receive  a price reduction. This is covered in Section 
56 of the CRA as follows:
(1) The right to a price reduction is the right to require  the trader  to reduce the price to the
consumer by an appropriate amount (including the right to receive a refund for anything
already paid above the reduced amount).
(2) The amount  of the reduction may, where appropriate, be the full amount of the price.
(3) A consumer who has that right and the right to require repeat performance  is only entitled
to a price reduction  in one of these situations
(a) because of section  55(3) the  consumer cannot  require  repeat performance; or
(b) the consumer  has required repeat  performance,  but the trader  is in breach of the
requirement of section 55(2)(a)  to do it within a reasonable time and without significant
inconvenience to the consumer.
Section 55(3) in summary talks about whether repeat performance of the contract is
impossible. As Ive already mentioned, Miss B didnt require repeat performance of the
contract. However,  I am not persuaded anyway that the replacement supplier that Paybreak 
appear to have sourced would be able to complete  the contract in such  as a way as to 
exactly mirror  how S was supposed to perform  it.
The nature of facial and body treatments  is that these will differ  from one supplier to another.
There are many different  types of facials and body treatments  available and these all use
different techniques  and products. In Miss Bs case, and under the terms of the contract  with
S, it was a given set of treatments and these  came at a high overall cost. The assessment of
the suitability of any replacement treatments is made even  more  difficult by the fact that the
invoice provided  by S isnt very specific  as to the received products or treatments.
Paybreak likely did what it could, when  it could, to source a new supplier for Miss B as it 
seems they initially intended  to do. However, I think Miss B entered into the contract with S 
on the reasonable understanding  that this was a treatment package. Having such large gaps 
between treatments would I think likely  lessen  the benefits of those treatments as an overall  
package. So, taking everything  into account, I think a price reduction is the fair and 
appropriate remedy for Miss B.
I note that Miss B feels strongly that S was operating a scam and has referred  to the video 
evidence from a lawyer  which said as much, and that anyone who had entered  into a 
contract with S is entitled to receive  a refund. In Miss Bs case, that means in effect that she 
wouldnt be liable to pay anything  to Paybreak  as she indemnified all the payments she had 
previously made to them. 
 
Ive considered this point  very carefully. Miss B did though receive some treatments under
the contract  before S ceased trading and would have received the benefit of those
treatments. I dont  believe that the treatments provided to Miss B were done so using goods
that didnt or couldnt provide the intended  benefit. 
Ref: DRN16453115I say this because  Ive not seen enough evidence that would make me think that the
products used werent genuine products. We certainly havent  had compelling  evidence of
this, for example  that what was used was tested and examined  and found  to be markedly
different. It looks more likely that this is a dispute around whether S was entitled to use or
licence the products from the trademark owner. I say this because,  as our investigator noted, 
our service  has discussed the situation  with the solicitors who have been  advising customers 
of S about their rights  to claim a refund. The responses we received from the solicitors  
confirmed that this was a dispute about  S using branding when it wasnt licensed to do so, 
but they didnt provide further evidence to show the products werent genuine. 
I realise that Miss B says that she didnt receive  any benefit because  the treatment  would 
only be fully complete once all treatments had been  received. I understand the point Miss B 
is making. However, I dont think I have  enough  evidence to say that the treatments Miss B 
did receive had no benefit for her at all. That is of course a very subjective  thing  to assess. 
And I accept  that Miss B would have entered into the contract  with S on the understanding 
that all treatments would be carried out. However, I cant  say for sure that the treatments 
Miss B did receive had no benefit at all. So, in view of this, I think  it reasonable for Miss B to 
pay for the goods  and services she did receive.
Im satisfied that, under the terms of the contract,  S contracted to provide Miss B with 13
different elements. These  were 12 facial treatments and a facial toning device. Some of 
these treatments were discounted, however it isnt possible  to determine whether or not the 
treatments Miss B received were the ones that were shown as having  a 50% or 100% 
discount. So, working out how much  each treatment Miss B received as a monetary value  
isnt really possible.
Not only that, weve  seen several  contracts  between S and other consumers  which attribute
the same  elements as those shown on Miss Bs contract, at differing prices and discounts.  In
some examples, weve seen that the treatments  have been discounted; in others the actual
products themselves have been  reduced  or discounted. In view of this, I think the fairest way 
to determine what Miss B should pay is to attribute an equal cost to all of the 13 elements in 
the contract. 
The total cost to be paid under the contract was £1.700. Taking into account what  Ive said 
above about how I think redress should  be fairly calculated, this means that each element 
has an equal cost of £130.77. So that means Miss Bs liability is for the number of elements  
she received and given a £130.77 cost for each. I understand that Miss B received seven 
facial treatments plus the facial toning  device. That works out to eight elements of the 
contract. This means the price reduction of the contract with S should  for the five elements 
she didnt receive  which  Ive calculated to be £653.85. So, to clarify, Miss B is only liable for 
£1,046.15 of the total cost of the £1,700 contract and is therefore only liable for this amount 
under the finance agreement with Paybreak.
Ref: DRN16453116To put things right, I will be directing Paybreak to reduce  the balance  owed  under  the
agreement so that Miss B is only liable for a total of £1,046.15. In the event this leaves a 
zero balance, Paybreak should  end the finance agreement. If Miss B has paid more  than the 
£1,046.15 she is liable  for, and the price  reduction results in a credit balance,  then the 
overpayment should be refunded to her, plus 8% simple yearly interest, calculated from 
when any payment was made until the date of settlement. Again, in this circumstance, 
Paybreak should end the finance agreement. I also think it fair and reasonable to direct  
Paybreak to remove  any adverse  information they have  currently recorded on Miss Bs credit 
file, after S ceased  trading.
my decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct etika Finance UK Limited  to do
the following: 
Recalculate Miss Bs liability to them under the loan agreement by ensuring  that she
is only liable to pay a total of £1,046.15; 
In the event this leaves a zero balance, etika Finance UK Limited should end the
finance agreement;
If Miss B has already repaid more than £1,046.15, and the price reduction results  in a 
credit balance,  then the overpayment  should be refunded to her, plus 8% simple 
yearly interest. Interest is to be applied  from when any payment was made until the 
date of settlement.  The finance agreement should be ended  as well;
Remove any adverse  information they have  currently recorded on Miss Bs credit file, 
after S ceased trading.
If etika Finance UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest  that is repayable to Miss B, it should tell Miss B how much its 
taken off. It should also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March  2021.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1645311