K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in1996. Mrs T says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
Mrs T took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL  has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs T says that PPI was added to her store card without her consent  or knowledge. But I 
think that FICL made it clear that she didnt have to take out he PPI, and that she chose to 
do so, although  I can understand why she doesnt  remember this as it was so long ago. I say 
this because FICL has provided  a copy of Mrs Ts store card application  and I can see that 
the policy is presented  as optional, and has been  selected. Mrs T has then signed  the 
application, agreeing to the information on it.    
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs T got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1620072