K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  plc delayed three payments to another  bank.
Background
Mr M holds  a bank account with HSBC. An investment matured and the funds were paid into 
this account. He wanted to transfer  this money  to a different bank. 
There was a limit on the maximum  amount of money  which could be transferred in one day. 
And a limit on the maximum which could be transferred in one transaction. Mr M decided  to 
make three payments using his online banking facilities.
Mr M made two payments from the HSBC  account to an account in his name at the other  
bank on the first day. HSBC put a hold on the payments  until it had confirmed with Mr M hed 
made them. He confirmed hed done  so. He also told it hed be making a payment to the 
same account the next day.
Mr M made the third payment the next day. It wasnt received immediately by the other bank. 
Mr M spoke  to HSBC. But the department he needed to speak to was closed. 
Mr M complained to HSBC. He wasnt happy that the first two payments had been held even 
though hed used his Secure Key to confirm them. And he said the third payment had been  
held after hed told HSBC  hed be making  it. HSBC  responded  to his complaint.  It said the 
first payments had been held as they met the criteria for needing to be confirmed by Mr M. 
But it hadnt held the final payment. It had transferred the money  as requested  by Mr M. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service.  He said HSBC had 
held the payments without a good reason.  And he hadnt received its letter  sent in response 
to his complaint.  Our investigator looked  at the complaint. And they thought HSBC hadnt 
done anything  wrong. They said HSBC had explained  the first two payments had been  held 
for security reasons, and that the third payment had not been held by HSBC.  
Mr M disagreed with this. He said hed used his Secure Key. And HSBC advertised  this as a 
secure method  of transferring  funds. So he couldnt  understand why the payments had been  
held. As no agreement could be reached, the complaints come  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Ms unhappy that HSBC held his payments which  hed confirmed using his 
Secure Key. This is a device given to HSBC customers for their online banking. He says 
HSBC advertise it as a way of preventing fraudulent use of accounts. So he doesnt  
understand why his payments were  held if hed used it. But HSBCs required  to have 
measures in place  to review payments. As part of its review process its entitled to ask 
customers for more information.  
HSBC has said the payments  met its criteria for holding payments until its spoken with the 
customer. It wanted to make sure Mr M had made the payment and knew where the money  
was being sent. If the payments meet the criteria, HSBCs entitled to hold them. And its 
Ref: DRN10094822terms and conditions say this might happen. I dont think  HSBC did anything  wrong by 
holding the first two payments until it spoke to Mr M.
The terms and conditions  also say when a payment is blocked, HSBC  will contact  the 
customer immediately. I know Mr M has said it didnt contact him immediately. I can see 
from its records HSBC contacted Mr M within six hours of him making  the first two payments. 
I dont think HSBC unreasonably delayed contacting Mr M. 
Mr M also complains  about a delay in the third payment being received in the other account. 
HSBC has said it didnt  hold the payment. Mr M phoned HSBC  a few hours after he made 
the payment.  He said it had had held his payment  despite what  had been  agreed the day 
before. HSBCs said the money was showing as having been  transferred. It didnt  know why 
it wasnt being deposited in the other  bank account.  HSBC suggested the other bank may 
have temporarily held the funds while it carried out its own regulatory  checks.  I cant 
comment on whether or not this is the case. Ive seen no evidence to suggest  HSBC did hold 
the payment.  
The fraud department, which Mr M had spoken to the previous day to release the payments, 
was closed at the time of his call. It reopened the following  morning. HSBC  has confirmed it 
has no record of Mr M calling  the following day. So I think its more likely than not that the 
funds were deposited in the other  bank  account before the fraud  department opened. This 
suggests to me HSBC  wasnt  holding the money.  The payment was completed before the 
fraud department was open to be able to clear it. 
I can see that Mr Ms said he transferred  money from another account  because this payment  
wasnt immediately received. And both payments were  transferred  to a fixed  term bond 
which he cant withdraw from now. But HSBC  has shown it made this payment as requested  
by Mr M. It didnt  hold the payment. And so it wasnt responsible for any delay in it being 
received in the other account. So I cant say HSBC is responsible for any losses  or 
inconvenience caused to Mr M by him making  this other payment.
I know Mr Ms said he didnt receive  the written  response to his complaint. I can see from its 
records that it sent the response by post ten days after he made the complaint. It may have 
been lost in the post. But I cant hold HSBC responsible  for that.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.  I make no award against HSBC  UK Bank  
plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1009482