K822xcomplaint
Ms L complains about a money transfer made  with Western Union Payment Services Ireland 
Limited.
background 
In February 2019  Ms L used Western Union to send money to herself in Austria. Whilst still 
in the UK Ms L received a message from Western Union saying that her money had been 
collected in Austria.
Ms L contacted Western Union  and explained that she hadnt collected  the money. Following 
the referral of the complaint to this service, Western Union agreed to refund the full amount.
Ms L wants Western Union to reimburse the cost of her flight  to Austria. She didnt use the 
flight because she felt there was no point in travelling  when  her spending money  had 
disappeared.
Western Union declined to reimburse the cost of the flight  so Ms L complained to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said that although Western  Union had refunded 
the money, Ms L had initially been  told that there hadnt  been a mistake and that the money 
had been paid out correctly. The investigator felt that the impact of being  told she had lost 
approximately £2400  had caused distress and inconvenience  to Ms L and recommended  
that Western Union paid compensation of £100.
Ms L didnt  agree. She said her holiday had taken a lot of organisation and that it had been 
ruined when she was told that her money had been  paid out correctly. She wants  the cost of 
the flight to Austria  reimbursed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has explained that she was due to go on holiday to Austria and meet up with her 
brother. She says she transferred the money to use as spending money.
I understand why Ms L decided not to travel. However, despite  the money having been  
collected, the flight ticket was still valid and Ms L had the option  to travel. I appreciate  that 
she may not have had the same kind of holiday she was expecting  but theres nothing to 
suggest that Ms L had no other  means of paying  for food and accommodation.  I cant 
reasonably say that Western  Union  was responsible for Ms L choosing not to use her flight  
ticket.
Ive thought about the impact of what happened  on Ms L. She was told that the money had 
been paid out correctly  and it was some time before Western  Union agreed to refund the 
money. 
This is a large sum of money to lose and Im satisfied that Ms L was caused  distress when 
she was told that the money had been  correctly paid out. And she was left thinking that the 
Ref: DRN10756462money had gone  for several weeks.  In recognition of that distress  I think its fair to ask 
Western Union to pay compensation.  To clarify, this is compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience, not for the abortive travel costs.  I think a sum of £100 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Western Union Payment Services  Ireland 
Limited must  pay compensation of £100 to Ms L.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1075646