K820x#14complaint
Miss D has complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold her 
an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 2011. She paid a monthly fee for the 
account which provided several  benefits in return.
background
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Halifax mis-sold the packaged  account  to Miss D 
and didnt recommend that Halifax should  pay her any compensation. Miss D didnt  agree  so 
she asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Miss Ds complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Miss Ds complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold  to her. 
Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Miss D was given a fair choice when  she took her 
packaged bank  account.
Miss D has complained that she was told the only way to extend her overdraft limit was by 
agreeing to the URCA. Shes explained  that she knew it came with a monthly fee, but she 
didnt think she had any other option  but to pay it.
Ive checked Miss Ds overdraft history  with Halifax and she had an agreed  limit of £250 on 
her fee-free account, until it was removed  in May 2011. She upgraded her account to the 
URCA in October 2011 and at that time didnt take an overdraft.  In April 2012, around six 
months after the sale of the URCA, her overdraft limit was set at £300.
Given the fact that Miss D didnt have an overdraft when she agreed to the URCA, nor for 
around six months after, Im not persuaded that the only reason she agreed to the account 
was to extend her overdraft. I think its more likely that she knew  she had a choice about 
taking the URCA,  and chose to do so because  something about  it appealed to her.
I dont think that Halifax  recommended  the URCA to Miss D, so it didnt have to check if the 
account was suitable for her.
Even so, Halifax had to give Miss D enough clear information about the account for her to 
decide if she wanted it. Like our adjudicator, I think that Miss D was interested  in some of the 
benefits of the account and chose it because of these benefits. 
Ref: DRN13836862I can see that Miss D registered her mobile phone under  the accounts mobile phone 
insurance policy less than two weeks after the sale. She went  on to register another  phone 
in July 2013, and made  contact with the accounts travel insurance provider more  recently  in 
2017. 
I understand that circumstances  change and Miss D might not have travelled when the 
account was sold, but it seems as though she has done so more recently. In any case I think  
she was interested  in the account  for at least  the mobile phone  insurance, and I think  Halifax 
gave her enough information  about  the other benefits for her to make use of them if she 
wanted to. Miss D may not have  used or made claims on all the benefits,  but this doesnt 
mean Halifax mis-sold the account.  
I note that Miss D has said she already had mobile  phone insurance and car breakdown 
cover; both of which are provided by the URCA. Whilst this may be the case, the fact that 
Miss D registered for the URCAs mobile  phone insurance so soon after taking the account 
makes me think she knew she needed  to review her existing cover, and she only needed to 
rely on the policy that best suited her needs.
Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Miss D everything  it should have about the URCA. But I 
havent seen enough to make me think that Miss D wouldnt still have taken the account  
even if Halifax had told her more about it. 
I want to reassure Miss D that Ive looked at all the information I have about  her complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything shes said. But having done so I dont think  Halifax mis-
sold the Ultimate Reward Current Account to her. So I dont think  it owes  her any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1383686