K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1994 that was linked to their mortgage.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with these findings.  They have commented that in 1996,  Mr L 
started an investment  with another product provider that he later used to repay the 
mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Mr and Mrs L have stated  that the PPI policy was put into force without their knowledge. I 
appreciate that they have provided their recollections about how the policy was sold to them. 
However, in my view it would be understandable if Mr and Mrs L found it difficult  to recall all 
the details of their discussions  with the Lloyds adviser, bearing in mind that these events 
happened more  than 20 years ago. Lloyds  has only been able to provide a very limited  
amount of information  from the point of sale. I dont find this surprising, again due to the 
number of years that have  passed.
With such limited  documentation from 1994,  I have to decide what I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  when the policy was taken out. I have carefully considered the description  of 
the sale provided by Mr and Mrs L. However, as the policy was a separate  product to the 
mortgage, my view is that it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L had to complete 
separate documents to request that PPI be taken out. This would have indicated both that it 
was an optional product, and would  suggest  that Mr and Mrs L did agree to take the PPI 
policy. On balance, I consider Mr and Mrs L were  offered the PPI as an option, and that they 
requested it be taken out.
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs L to take out PPI. It therefore had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the advice it gave was suitable. It also had to give clear,  fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that Mr and Mrs L could make a properly informed choice.
The policy was in Mr Ls name only. Having looked at Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances when it 
was sold, my view is that it was suitable for Mr L for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs L have highlighted that they would  have  received sick pay from their 
employers, and that they also had other  means to help them meet  mortgage  repayments 
if they were unable to work. Mr L has said that he also took out an investment policy  
which later was used  to pay off the mortgage.  However, the investment policy  was taken 
out after the PPI cover  commenced, and so would not have played a part when 
considering the suitability of PPI in 1994.
The PPI policy would  have covered  the loan repayments for up to one year if Mr L had 
Ref: DRN15941072been unable  to work due to disability or unemployment. This would  have been  in addition 
to any other  benefits  Mr L was entitled  to. Taking  into account the importance of 
maintaining mortgage repayments, on balance my view is that PPI provided a useful 
benefit to Mr L if he was unable to work because of disability or unemployment.
It seems  that Mr L was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the main things not covered by the policy that might  make  it unsuitable for him.
The PPI premium looks to have been  affordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which Lloyds  didnt give Mr and Mrs L as much  
information as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy 
was suitable for Mr L, my view is that better information would not have put Mr and Mrs L off 
taking out the PPI.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed with my findings. However, my 
conclusion is that the PPI policy was not mis-sold to them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1594107