K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G have  complained  about  the way Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company 
Limited  (LV) handled  a claim  on their buildings  insurance  for damage  to their kitchen  
following  a water  leak.
background
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs G made  a claim to LV after a water leak from a pipe under 
their flooring  damaged some of their kitchen units and flooring.
LV appointed  an agent to deal with the claim. It offered Mr and Mrs G a cash settlement of 
around £2,100  but Mr and Mrs G didn't  think this was enough.  They sent LV quotes  of over 
£10,000 for the reinstatement works. After  reviewing these, LV offered a revised  settlement 
of around £4,597.
Mr and Mrs G complained to LV about  the settlement. LV didnt increase its settlement offer 
any further. It said it had based  it on the cost of replacing the damaged areas of the kitchen 
plus a 50% contribution towards the undamaged  kitchen units.
In September  2019, after Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service,  LV offered a 
cash settlement of just over £15,000  to cover  the cost of the reinstatement work to their 
kitchen including  a 50% contribution to the undamaged matching units. It also included the 
cost of works to the flooring, tiles and redecorations as well as agreeing to refund a 
contribution already paid by Mr G. Mr and Mrs G accepted that offer but they werent happy 
with the way their claim had been handled.
Our investigator thought LV should pay them £600 to compensate  them for the trouble and 
upset caused  by a delay  in reaching  a satisfactory  cash settlement.
LV accepted his view but as Mrs G disagreed, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Now that the claim has been  settled,  I believe  the only issue that remains is the amount of 
compensation LV should pay Mr and Mrs G for the trouble  and upset it caused them by the 
delay on its part in offering a reasonable cash settlement.  So Ill focus on that.
Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble  and upset the insurer  has caused to its 
policy holder above  and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated  with a 
claim of this type.
The difference between the amount originally offered (£2,100) and the amount Mr and Mrs G 
finally accepted  about four months  later (over £15,000) is large both in real and percentage 
terms. It took a great deal of persistence on Mrs Gs part to make  LV realise that its original  
offers werent based on a like for like kitchen.
Ref: DRN17217212During the claim Mr and Mrs G were in the process  of getting divorced but having to live 
together pending the sale of their house.  Unsurprisingly  they didnt want  to market their 
property with the kitchen badly damaged. So the delay  in reaching a reasonable cash  
settlement came at a very bad time for them. LV was aware of their personal  situation. 
In addition one of them had taken on a loan which the proceeds  from the sale of the house 
were intended  to repay. I cant  say LV should be liable for the additional interest as this 
might have been payable anyway. But this would have been  another worry at the time they 
were trying to reach an acceptable settlement. Mrs G said she developed a serious health 
problem as a result of stress during this time.
They were  also having to live with a badly damaged kitchen for several months longer than 
necessary although  it was just about useable.
Having taken all the circumstances  into account  I think that compensation of £600 is fair and 
reasonable. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs G but Ive thought  
about this services approach to awards  made  in similar  circumstances  and I dont think  I can 
fairly award  any more.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs G £600  compensation for the trouble and upset caused by delay in offering a 
reasonable cash settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 July 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1721721