K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc wont refund disputed cash withdrawals  made 
from his account. 
background
Mr K says that fraudulent cash machine withdrawals totalling £2,450 were made from his 
Halifax current account between 16 March 2018 and 20 March  2018. 
The last time Mr K used  his debit card was on 16 March 2018. He withdrew £10 from a cash  
machine around  11.40pm. He says that whilst  he was using the cash machine, someone  
approached him to ask him for a lighter.  Mr K says this happened after hed requested  the 
cash. He thinks  his card was either  taken from his back pocket or accidentally  dropped  to the 
ground at that point.  Mr K explains that he didnt  notice his card was missing until 
20 March 2018,  which was the next time he wanted  to use it. 
Halifax investigated and decided not to refund  the disputed withdrawals. It said there was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought  Mr K had authorised the withdrawals or made them 
himself because:
less than one minute  had passed between Mr Ks withdrawal of £10 and the first 
disputed withdrawal. It felt this was too short a period of time for the card to be taken 
and used without  Mr K being  aware
no balance enquiries were carried out before the disputed withdrawals, suggesting 
the person that had the card knew how much was available
the available account balance wasnt fully utilised  in the time the card was active
the cash machines  used were in the area where Mr K normally makes  transactions 
and the amounts were similar to Mr Ks genuine spending
Mr K gave  inconsistent information  about  the claim 
As Mr K didnt agree  with Halifaxs decision, he asked  us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude  that the withdrawals had been  made fraudulently and was persuaded 
they were most likely made and authorised by Mr K. 
Mr K responded to say CCTV wouldve made  a significant difference  to the outcome  and 
shouldve been  obtained. Mr K asked  for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Halifax can hold Mr K liable  for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Ref: DRN18927772Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ks genuine  card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. So I also need to think  about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr K consented to the withdrawals 
being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax  to conclude that Mr K 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed withdrawals were  made  using Mr Ks genuine  card and PIN, but theres no 
convincing explanation for how a third party could  have known Mr Ks PIN. It seems  
unlikely that an opportunistic fraudster  wouldve observed Mr K entering his PIN whilst  he 
withdrew £10 on the off chance  that he was going to drop the card. In addition, Mr Ks 
recollections suggest that hed already entered his PIN by the time he was asked for a 
lighter. 
Its unlikely someone couldve taken Mr Ks card from his pocket  without him noticing and 
then used it in the same cash machine  around one minute later
Its unlikely that a fraudster would immediately  use the same cash  machine that Mr K 
had just left, especially  as theres  a risk that Mr K could realise the card was missing and 
retrace his steps.  
No balance enquiries were carried out at any of the cash  machines, so the person using 
the card mustve had an idea of how much money  was available 
It seems  unlikely  that a fraudster  would stop trying to use the card whilst there were 
funds still available  
Mr K reviewed  his online banking more than thirty times between  5 March 2018  and 
16 March 2018. The last time he logged  in was 22:01 on 16 March  2018 but then he 
didnt access it again until 11.23  on 20 March 2018. It seems unusual  that Mr K would 
stop checking his account at the same time that the card had left his possession. 
In response to our investigators opinion, Mr K said the lack of CCTV footage  makes  a 
significant difference to the outcome. Its possible that CCTV might have identified that 
someone other than Mr K made  the withdrawals. But Mr K didnt have to make  the 
withdrawals personally in order to be liable for them under the relevant rules.  He can still be 
held responsible for them if he authorised  the use of his card. So even if CCTV had been 
available, looking at all of the evidence in this particular case, I dont think I could be as sure 
as I would need to be to say that Mr K wasnt involved.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr K authorised  the disputed  
withdrawals. It follows  that Halifax is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Ref: DRN18927773my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1892777