K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Hartwell Finance  Limited  unfairly took possession of a car she had on 
hire purchase following it being impounded by the police for having no insurance.
background
In March 2017 Mrs K entered  into a five year hire purchase agreement  for a used car. The 
car was actually used  by her husband rather than herself.
In February 2019,  due an administrative oversight, the car didnt have a valid insurance  
policy in place and was impounded by the police. The police notified Hartwell that the car 
had been seized and that storage  fees were accruing. Hartwell says it tried to make  contact  
with Mrs K but werent able to do so.
Mrs Ks husband arranged new insurance cover  in March 2019 and arranged with the 
garage that was storing the car that he would go in and collect it. However, when he arrived 
to pick up the car he was informed that Hartwell had already taken it.
Mrs K authorised Hartwell  to speak with her husband. As he was the main  user of the car it 
was agreed that the finance  agreement  would be transferred into his name, but Mrs Ks 
husband says he was given conflicting information  about the costs  involved. Both Mrs K and 
her husband  disputed the fees that Hartwell was charging for collecting the car from the 
garage and returning it. The car has remained with Hartwell and the credit agreement  
remains in Mrs Ks name.
Mrs Ks husband complained on her behalf  that Hartwell had no right to collect  the car as it 
had been insured at the point it had been  collected  and, that as Mrs K had paid at least one 
third of the credit agreement, it required a court order to take possession of it.
Hartwell didnt uphold  the complaint. It said it had tried unsuccessfully  to make contact with 
Mrs K and had collected the car to ensure it wasnt incurring  unnecessary  storage fees and 
to protect  it from being crushed. It said that as Mrs K no longer wanted  the car back  that it 
would be fair for her to give authority for the car now to be sold and for the proceeds of that 
sale to be offset against  the outstanding  balance  under the credit  agreement.
Mrs K disagreed with Hartwells view and her husband complained on her behalf to this 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld although 
she accepted  that some  of the communication  with Hartwell could have been  clearer.
Our investigator said that although Hartwell would  have  normally  needed a court order  to re-
possess the car from Mrs K this hadnt been  the situation  here. The car had been 
impounded and was at risk of being crushed and had the car been destroyed Mrs K would 
have been in a worse  position. Our investigator said that although this service  must take 
account of the relevant consumer law it isnt bound by it and must look at what is fair and 
reasonable. Here, she didnt think that Hartwell had acted unfairly by collecting the car.
Our investigator said that she thought  Hartwells  suggested resolution to the matter  was fair 
and she wasnt going to ask it to do more.
Mrs Ks husband, on her behalf,  has disagreed  with our investigators view. He says he told 
the garage where the car had been impounded that it was now insured when hed arranged  
to collect it, and so Hartwell would have known  there  was cover  in place when it had 
Ref: DRN10750892collected the car. He also says the car wouldnt have been  crushed as a policy of insurance  
had been taken out.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that at the time the car was impounded by the police there was no valid 
insurance cover in place.  Mrs Ks husband  says he arranged cover about two weeks later 
and then made arrangements with the garage  where the car was stored to collect it. 
However, before he could  physically collect the car Hartwell had already done so.
Hartwell says it made this decision after being  informed  by the police that the car had been 
impounded and why. It was aware  that the car was at risk of being crushed and tried to 
make contact with Mrs K to see what  arrangements she was making for the car. It wasnt 
able to speak  with her and so left the matter for a few days  to see if the car would be 
collected. When the car wasnt retrieved, it decided to collect the car itself and store  it at a 
local dealership  to keep the storage fees from accruing and also ensure  it wasnt  destroyed.
I appreciate that Mrs K feels strongly  that Hartwell had no right to do what  it did but, under 
the agreement, the car still belonged to Hartwell  and so it would have an interest  in what 
happened to it. I havent seen any evidence  that the garage informed Hartwell  that the car 
was insured, or that it had received  any proof that an insurance policy was now in place so I 
cant reasonably  say that Hartwell didnt have cause  to be concerned. It wasnt the garages 
responsibility to keep Hartwell informed about what was happening.
Ive also seen that under the agreement  a court order is required for Hartwell  to repossess 
the car if there is a breach of the agreement when Mrs K has paid one third of the credit 
provided. And that Mrs K had paid at least this amount. However,  I dont think  Hartwell was 
repossessing the car from Mrs K as it wasnt in her possession at the time it collected  the 
car. The car had been impounded for around  14 days before  Hartwell collected it and its 
intention was for the car to be returned to Mrs K and the agreement continued. The dispute 
that then arose was about the fees that were incurred as these were greater than those 
quoted by the garage to Mrs Ks husband when he arranged to collect  the car. 
Further, although I must take account  of relevant consumer legislation Im not bound by it. 
Here Hartwell had a genuine  concern  that the car was at risk of being  crushed and so acted 
when it couldnt  make contact with Mrs K. In these circumstances I think  Hartwells  actions  
were fair and reasonable. Protecting  the car was in both Mrs Ks and its interests and it had 
waited to see if the car was collected  after being contacted by the police. 
Mrs K says there was no risk of the car being crushed because  it was re-insured, but I dont 
think I can reasonably say that Hartwell would have known that. It had tried to make contact 
with Mrs K and waited for a few days to see if the car was collected before taking action. I 
think this was reasonable.
Ive seen there was a discussion about transferring the car from Mrs K to her husband which 
I think was a fair as he used the car more than Mrs K and there had been a change  in their 
personal circumstances. This ultimately didnt happen and the car has remained with 
Ref: DRN10750893Hartwell. Mrs K says she longer wants the car back,  and would like the agreement 
terminated, and for the outstanding balance to be written off. But I dont think  Mrs Ks 
suggestion is a fair outcome as I dont  think Hartwells  actions  were  unfair  in collecting the 
car when  it did. 
So for the reasons given above  Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint. I think Hartwells 
actions were reasonable in the circumstances.  I understand that the agreement has since  
been terminated and that Mrs K is currently experiencing some  financial difficulties. I would 
expect Hartwell to deal with the situation sympathetically and it will need to liaise with Mrs K 
as to the way forward.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1075089