K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained that esure Insurance Limited wrongly settled another drivers claim against 
his motor insurance policy. 
background 
Mr P was involved  in an accident  at a roundabout, which he didnt think  was his fault.  He 
complained when esure settled the other drivers claim under his policy.  He felt that they had 
just accepted what the other driver said, and hadnt considered  the evidence  properly.  He 
wasnt happy about having  to pay his policy excess or about any future  increase in his 
premium because of the fault claim against him. 
Esure said that they had acted reasonably on the evidence  they had and that they were 
entitled to settle  Mr Ps case  and treat it as a fault claim against his policy. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think esure 
had acted unreasonably. Mr P remained unhappy  and so his case  has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  explained to Mr P, we dont decide who is at fault for causing  an accident, 
as this is the role of the courts. Instead,  our role in complaints of this kind is simply to 
investigate whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their policys  
terms and conditions when they made their decision as regards who was responsible. I see 
that Mr Ps policy in the general conditions on page  21 allows esure  to take  over, defend  or 
settle the claim. This is a common term in motor insurance policies  and so esure  can do this 
whether Mr P agrees with it or not. Insurers  are entitled to make a commercial  decision 
about whether  its reasonable  for them to defend a claim in court  or better for them to settle 
it. 
The other driver said that Mr P had pulled out onto the roundabout when it wasnt safe to do 
so. But Mr P said that he was already established  on the roundabout first when the other  
driver hit his car. Mr P felt that the location of the damage, on the rear of his car, supported 
his view that the other driver was to blame.  
But esure said that Mr P had a duty of care under the Highway Code to make sure the traffic  
coming from the right was clear before proceeding onto the roundabout. They said that even 
if Mr P was already established on the roundabout  at the time of the impact,  that didnt prove 
that when hed entered the roundabout it was safe to do so, and no other  driver  was coming 
from the right. And as there were no independent  witnesses to the accident and no CCTV 
footage, it was one persons word against  the other about that. 
Mr P felt that esure  hadnt placed enough importance on the fact that his car was hit in the 
rear , and theyd  focused on only one part of the Highway Code to use against him, ignoring 
the part that he thought  supported him. He felt they made an instant decision  without  looking 
at the evidence.
Ref: DRN18321672Esure accept that they did come  quickly to a provisional view that Mr P was at fault for the 
accident. But that doesnt mean its unfair, as they said that they were  open to changing that 
view if the evidence overall showed  otherwise. I think that they were,  because I can see from 
their file that esure  did review the images  of Mr Ps cars damage and the diagram Mr P sent 
them and that this was before they made  their final decision. So I think that they did gather 
evidence and did listen to Mr Ps view. They didnt think that the location  of Mr Ps cars 
damage was conclusive  as to who was responsible for the accident. And I dont think thats 
an unreasonable view, as just because a car is hit on the rear while on a roundabout,  that 
doesnt automatically mean that it must have been  safe for its driver to pull out when they 
did. Thats  the issue on which the evidence from both drivers  is conflicting. And so without 
independent evidence about  that, it remains one persons word against another. So I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for esure to not want to defend the other drivers claim.  
I can see its frustrating for Mr P as he feels  strongly that he was in the right,  but I think that 
esure had properly reviewed the evidence and had allowed  him to fully explain his account 
of events before they made  their final decision on liability.  So I think  that that esure acted 
fairly and reasonably in settling the case as they did. And so I dont ask them to do any 
more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1832167