K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that hes being chased  for the debt that was left when his property was sold 
in possession in 2009 by Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Birmingham Midshires).
background
In June 2007 Mr A took out a mortgage  with Birmingham Midshires. He got into financial 
difficulties, and in 2008 the property was repossessed. It was sold in 2009  and there was a 
shortfall of around  £50,000.
Mr A started making payments to the debt but those stopped.  Then in 2018 he received a 
letter from a third party company that was chasing  the debt on behalf  of Birmingham 
Midshires.
Mr A complained that he was contacted so long after hed last heard anything about the 
debt. He also said there must have been  an issue with the valuation(s)  as there was such a 
large difference in the stated market value from when he bought  it in 2007 to when it was 
valued in possession in 2008.  
Our adjudicator considered whether the complaint  had been brought to us in time and didnt 
think part of it had. She said Mr A had left it too long to complain  about  the valuation(s) 
and/or the sale price,  but that we could consider his complaint about being contacted in 2018  
about the debt.  Mr A disagreed and so the matter  was passed to me.  
In a decision earlier this month I set out details of what we can and cant look at. I said the 
only issue we could  consider was Mr As complaint about the recent  contact from the third 
party to chase repayment of the shortfall debt,  as the complaint about the valuation(s) had 
been brought too late under our rules.
As our adjudicator had already given her opinion  I asked  both sides to let me have any final 
submissions within two weeks,  saying  To be clear the final submissions should only relate to 
the point we can consider, and dont need  to repeat anything already  said.
Birmingham Midshires had nothing further  to add. Mr A responded,  but everything he said 
relates to the issues Id already said I cant consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This service is impartial  between,  and 
independent from,  consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent  
either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint 
will be looked at. For that reason  I wont be commenting further on the elements Ive already  
said we cant consider. The only issue we can look at is very straightforward.
I appreciate Mr As frustration, but customers do have responsibilities. Mr A didnt keep in 
touch with Birmingham  Midshires.  He knew he owed it money, and whilst he says he 
couldnt afford to keep  to the payment arrangement hed agreed that doesnt mean the debt 
disappeared.
Ref: DRN15548442Mr A said he assumed the debt had been  written off as he didnt hear anything about  it for a 
number of years. Its not clear why Mr A would think that as surely if the debt had been  
written off he would  have heard something; that is he would have been contacted  and 
notified there was no longer a debt to be paid. The fact he didnt hear anything surely  meant  
the status quo remained;  that is that he owed the shortfall debt.
Birmingham Midshires has said the reason  Mr A wasnt  contacted  for a number of years is 
that the companies it employed to trace him werent  able to locate Mr A. Thats  not 
Birmingham Midshiress fault. Mr A, knowing he owed this money, should  have kept 
Birmingham Midshires notified  of his whereabouts. That way Birmingham Midshires could 
have kept in contact and there would have been  no confusion on Mr As part about  whether 
or not he still owed  the money.
I appreciate that hearing about the shortfall debt again so many years after he last made a 
payment towards  it came as a shock to Mr A, but Birmingham Midshires  hasnt done 
anything wrong  in chasing for repayment. I would suggest that Mr A speaks to someone 
qualified to give him free debt advice about this - such as Shelter, StepChange or Citizens 
Advice. We can provide  Mr A with contact details  for those agencies,  if hed like us to do so.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion 
about it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1554844