K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D complained  about two regular premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policies taken out in 1997 and 2008.  They say Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)    
mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs D raised  a complaint against  Halifax about the mis-sale of their PPI policies. 
Halifax upheld the complaint about PPI policy Mr and Mrs D were sold in 1994  and refunded 
all of the premiums along with 8% simple interest.  But Halifax didnt agree the policies sold in 
1997 and 2008 were  mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs D brought  the complaint to our service. An adjudicator assessed the complaint 
and didnt think Halifax mis-sold the two policies. Mr and Mrs D disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me. I wrote a provisional decision in which I explained I didnt think the two 
policies were mis-sold. My provisional  decision read as follows:
Firstly, Id like to make it clear that Im only assessing the complaint about  the alleged       
mis-selling of PPI in this decision.  I understand  Mr and Mrs D made a separate  complaint 
about the mis-selling of their mortgage  endowment. But I wont be looking at that within  this 
decision.
1994 sale
Id like to address the complaint Mr and Mrs D made about the first PPI policy  they took out 
alongside their mortgage in 1994. They were unhappy that the benefit on the policy  was split 
50/50 between  them. When  Mr D tried to make a claim, it didnt cover as much of the 
mortgage repayments as he was expecting. In response to this, Halifax upheld  the mis-sale  
complaint about  the 1994 policy and gave  Mr and Mrs D a full refund of the premiums theyd 
paid, plus 8% simple interest. Mr and Mrs D have continued to complain about the benefit 
split after receiving the refund. But as Halifax has already fully upheld the 1994 PPI sale, I 
dont think its necessary to look into whether or not it made an error in splitting the benefit  as 
it did.
Mr and Mrs D say that when they first took out their mortgage in 1994, they were told they 
had to take the PPI to cover their mortgage  repayments. And this is why they continued to 
take out PPI when they amended their mortgage  over the years.  Although all the premiums 
Mr and Mrs D paid for the 1994 policy have already been refunded, whether or not Mr and 
Mrs D were given  the option of taking out PPI or declining it at that point will have  an impact 
on the later sales that Im considering.  Because of this, Ive looked at the relevant 
documents from the 1994 sale to see whether or not Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D a fair choice 
to take or decline the policy. 
Halifax has given me a copy of the mortgage  application form from the 1994 sale. This had a 
separate section  for PPI that gave a brief description  of the cover and asked do you wish to 
join the scheme?  A Y has been  typed into the appropriate box confirming Mr and Mrs D 
wanted to take out the policy.  They then completed a separate  PPI application form that set 
out the monthly benefit as well as the monthly cost.  Both Mr and Mrs D signed this to confirm 
they wanted to take out the cover. I cant know exactly  what  was said to Mr and Mrs D at the 
time of the sale and they havent  gone into much detail about this. But looking at the 
available documents, I think  they were aware that they had a choice in taking out the policy  
Ref: DRN17728772and that they chose  to take it out. Based on this, my starting position for each sale is that I 
think they were aware they didnt have to take out the PPI policies. 
1997 sale
Mr and Mrs D cancelled their existing PPI policy in 1997 and took out a new one in Mr Ds 
name only. Mr D says he felt pressured  into taking out the new policy  to cover himself only 
and that Halifax  panicked him into doing  almost anything. Its not clear how Halifax  made 
Mr D feel panicked into taking out a new policy in his name only. I do have  copies of the 
letters Mr and Mrs D sent Halifax in 1996  in which they requested for the policy  to be 
changed. The first letter Mr and Mrs D sent in January 1996 says we have decided to 
change our mortgage payments protector policy to the main persons income (Mr D).  
Looking at this, I think  its more likely that Mr and Mrs D made the decision  to change the 
policy to Mr Ds name only on their own due to their own personal circumstances. And Ive 
not seen enough to say its more likely Halifax pressured them into doing so.
Halifax has said it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for Mr D  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example  he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  Mr D has said 
he had no sick pay or savings at the time of the sale in July 1997. And the policy  couldve 
covered his repayments if he was too ill to work,  had an accident  or was made redundant for 
up to 12 months per claim. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs D off taking out the cover. 
2008 sale
Mr and Mrs D visited a Halifax branch in October  2008 to make  a part repayment on their 
mortgage. At the same time, they took out a new PPI policy in Mr Ds name  only to replace 
the existing one. The PPI was part of a package of insurance called a total mortgage 
protection policy (TMPP) which was made up of three different parts   PPI, life cover  and 
critical illness cover. From what I can see, Mr and Mrs D selected only the PPI cover at that 
time so this is what Ive considered.
Halifax has said this was verbally agreed  in the meeting  so there isnt a specific PPI 
application form. But it has given  me a copy of the demands and needs statement that was 
completed as well as the welcome pack and the policy schedule  Mr and Mrs D were sent.  
On more than one of these  documents it describes  the PPI policy as optional.  Based on this 
and everything else I currently have available, I think its more likely that Halifax made  it 
clear Mr and Mrs D had a choice in taking out the PPI policy  and that they chose  to take it 
out in 2008.  
Looking at the information available  to me, I think  Halifax  also recommended  this policy to 
Mr and Mrs D. Based on what Mr D has told us about  his circumstances, I dont think  they 
had significantly changed from the 1997  sale. So I still think he had a need for the cover. Its 
not possible for me to know exactly what information  Mr and Mrs D were  given at the time of 
the sale. So its possible they werent  given  clear, fair and not misleading  information about 
the policy. But I still think Mr and Mrs D wouldve chosen to take out the policy if theyd been 
Ref: DRN17728773given better  information.  This policy had the same benefits as the 1997 one and from what  I 
can see Mr D still had a need for them. 
Mr and Mrs D have raised a specific issue with the PPI cover being cancelled  around eight 
months before the end of the mortgage. Theyre  unhappy that they were left unprotected 
when they expected the policy to run for the full length of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs D made  a part repayment to their mortgage in November 2008  and the 
remaining mortgage term was amended  to 5 years to reflect  this. This means the mortgage  
term was due to end in November 2013. Looking at the insurance schedule from the 2008 
sale, it sets out the start date as 28 October 2008 and the end date as 27 November 2013.  
So Im satisfied that the mortgage and PPI policy  were set up to run alongside  each other 
until the mortgage was over.
Mr and Mrs D then took out a further  advance in May 2010 and the remaining  mortgage term 
was amended to four years  to reflect this, meaning  the end date of the mortgage  was now 
May 2014. Normally, the PPI term would have automatically increased alongside the loan. 
Theres a note from when  the further advance was taken out of a conversation between the 
Halifax advisor and Mr and Mrs D. This says Mr and Mrs D were told if they wanted to add 
life cover and critical illness cover to their mortgage  they wouldnt be able to add it to their 
existing TMPP policy. It says this is because the remaining  term would be under five years. 
The note shows that Mr and Mrs D decided  to take independent advice on the insurance and 
the PPI policy  wasnt  amended  to match the end date of the mortgage.  
Because of this, there  was a term mis-match between the PPI term and the mortgage term. 
The PPI policy ended  in November 2013  and the mortgage ended  in June 2014. But it looks  
like Mr and Mrs D made the decision  to seek independent advice on alternative products to 
cover the mortgage.  And even if Halifax did make an error in not increasing the PPI term to 
match the mortgage term, I still wouldnt recommend that it do anything further to put this 
right. This is because  where an error is made,  wed expect Halifax  to put Mr and Mrs D back  
in the position they wouldve been  in had the error not been  made.  In this case  that would 
mean Mr and Mrs D would  need to pay Halifax for the premiums  they should  have paid 
between November 2013 and June 2014.  Firstly, I think its more likely Halifax hasnt made  
an error in this instance, and secondly, I wouldnt be asking Mr and Mrs D to make any 
further payments  to Halifax.
On balance, based on everything Ive seen so far, I dont currently  think  the PPI policies  sold 
in 1997 or 2008 were mis-sold. And I dont  think Halifax made an error  in not increasing the 
term of the 2008  policy  alongside  the further advance  in 2010.
This means  I dont  think Halifax has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Halifax  has already  offered  to give back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D and 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. I understand  Halifax has already paid this to Mr 
and Mrs D.
I understand Mr and Mrs D have questioned why they havent  also received a refund  for the 
commission on the PPI policy  sold in 1994. This is because theyve already received a full 
refund of all PPI premiums they paid, plus 8% simple interest.
Mr and Mrs D responded  to my provisional  decision with some additional comments. They  
reiterated that they were unhappy with the amount theyve been paid so far and that they 
Ref: DRN17728774believed what the representatives from Halifax said was true. They also explained again  that 
they were incorrectly told the 1994 policy would cover them  both 100%, and they werent told 
it would  be split 50/50. Finally, they mentioned their mortgage endowment complaint. 
Halifax had no additional comments in response to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, im still of the opinion that neither the 1997  or 2008 policies were mis-sold  
by Halifax.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Halifax has acknowledged that it didnt do 
everything it shouldve  done when it sold Mr and Mrs D the 1994 policy.  This is why it fully 
upheld the sale and provided a full refund of the premiums with interest. If I were to look into 
the 1994 sale and agree with Mr and Mrs D, I wouldve recommended Halifax refund Mr and 
Mrs D the premiums plus 8% simple interest.  As it has already done  this, I still dont think  its 
necessary for me to look into the 1994 sale.
I also set out in my provisional decision why I feel the documentation from the 1994 sale 
shows Mr and Mrs D were given a fair choice when  they were offered the PPI. And I think it 
follows they were also aware in the following sales that they had a choice to take or decline 
the policy. Finally, I understand Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the mortgage endowment 
they were sold but I am not assessing  that in this decision. This is because  they have  a 
separate complaint about this.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I dont think the 1997 and 2008 PPI 
policies were mis-sold by Halifax.  But Halifax has already offered to give back some  of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D and I dont think it needs to do anything more. I understand 
Halifax has already  paid this to Mr and Mrs D.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019 
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1772877