K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1996. 
Lloyds cant say how or exactly when PPI was sold to Mrs M. But it mustve  been added to 
her account  either when  Mrs M took out her credit card or some  time after.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
She says she definitely was not told that PPI was optional. She says he thought it was part 
of the normal  repayment.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mrs M being able to remember everything  as it happened so long ago. Mrs M thought  
the card was taken  out at a meeting with the bank. She might be right about that. But, I cant  
now know exactly what the bank  mightve  said to Mrs M when she took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  a specimen copy of a credit  card application. But I dont know if Mrs M 
wouldve filled in a form just like this when she took out the PPI  because it isnt clear  
exactly how the PPI was sold to her or specifically when the PPI was sold. So I dont think it 
fair to rely on this.
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely. 
Based on what weve  learnt  from dealing with other  Lloyds cases,  I think  its likely that Mrs 
M wouldve  been  asked if she wanted PPI with her credit card  either when  she took out her 
card or sometime after this, once her card was up and running. The paperwork generally 
being used around that time made it clear that PPI was optional. So, I think its likely that Mrs 
M wouldve  been  asked if she wanted PPI, and that it wouldve only been  added to her 
account if she said she wanted it. I havent  seen  anything  to make me think  that Lloyds 
wasnt following its usual sales practice  in Mrs Ms case. I can understand why she may not 
remember it that way now, after so much time. 
 
Lloyds said in fairness to Mrs M it would  treat this as an advised sale.  This means it not only 
had to give her important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommended was suitable for Mrs M. 
Ref: DRN10684802It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  for Mrs M based  on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. Mrs M was eligible for the policy  and I cant see that it was 
unaffordable. She had some sick pay entitlement  through work  she mentioned  shed have 
got 6 months  full sick pay followed  by 6 months half pay from her employer.  The policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim  in the event of accident or sickness  on top 
of any work  benefits.  
And as well as this, the policy  wouldve  also protected Mrs Ms credit card repayments  if she 
lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
I cant see that Mrs M was affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions of cover. As 
she couldve  benefitted from everything  the policy offered, I cant see that the policy was 
unsuitable for her needs. I dont think that having more information  about the policy  
exclusions and limitations wouldve  put Mrs M off taking out PPI.
Looking at all the information Mrs M has provided about her circumstances at the time, 
I think PPI was suitable for her.  
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mrs M made a claim.  But as Ive said, I think Mrs M probably chose to take 
out the policy  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  Mrs M couldve cancelled the 
policy at any time if her circumstances changed  or she no longer wanted to pay for it. Mrs M 
said she thought  PPI was part of the normal repayment, but given  the limited  information 
now available, I dont  have enough  to fairly conclude that Lloyds misled her into thinking  that. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely that Mrs M wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance, I think shed still have  taken 
out the policy. This means I dont think that Mrs M lost out as a result  of anything that Lloyds 
did wrong. So it doesnt need  to do anything to put things  right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1068480