K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that NCO Europe  Limited (NCO) have  registered her account in default in
2015 when they should have registered  it in 2012. She wants  them to change the default
date on credit reference agency  records.
background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
response to my provisional  findings
NCO provided no response to my provisional  findings.
There were no further considerations for me from Mrs As response, although  I do 
acknowledge the disappointment she expressed  about my findings.
I was not presented with evidence that NCO should  have told credit reference agencies  
(CRA) that Mrs As account was in default  in 2012.  And I think  NCO acted fairly  and 
responsibly when  they told the CRA  to show the default dated in 2015. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and, in more detail in my provisional  decision, my final 
decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12581702Copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M complains that NCO Europe Limited  (NCO) have registered her account in default in
2015 when they should have registered it in 2012. She wants them  to change the default
date on credit  reference agency records.
background
Mrs M owes Arrow Global  (Arrow) a debt.  NCO run Mrs Ms account day-to-day on behalf of
Arrow, who have owned the debt since late 2012. Before Arrow were the owners,  Mrs M had
been in arrears.
She entered a debt management plan (DMP) in mid-2012  through a debt charity.
NCO had been running the account for the previous owners of the account  since mid-2012.
And when  the ownership changed to Arrow in late 2012, Mrs M was paying the monthly
amount agreed  through the debt charity. Shed  been paying on time since NCO first ran the
account. But in late 2014, Mrs Ms account started to fall into arrears. By mid-2015, NCO
registered her account  with a credit reference agency as in default.
Mrs M partially settled  her account in 2019 and found out that the account  had been
registered as in default  in 2015. Mrs M complained to NCO  that her account should have
been registered in default in 2012 when  she entered her DMP. She told them  if the default
was dated in 2012, banks  and lenders would not penalise her and it would give her access
to better financial services  products.
NCO said in their final response letter that from the date they were given control of the
account in 2012, Mrs M had paid every payment  that was due until late 2014,  when her
account went  into arrears.  They said the arrears first reached a level of around three months
payments in late 2015,  which is when  they registered the default at Arrows request. They
didnt uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M disagreed, saying she was in default in 2012 because shed entered  a DMP, and
complained to us.
An investigator looked  at the details  and evidence  provided by Mrs M, NCO and Arrow and
upheld Mrs Ms complaint. He felt that as Mrs Ms account was in arrears  in 2011, and likely
to have been  in 2012, NCO should change the date of the default to late 2012.
Mrs M agreed with the investigator but NCO, on behalf of Arrow, didnt. So the matter has
been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I know Mrs M will be upset,  but I dont
agree with the investigators view.
Arrow became the legal owners  of Mrs Ms debt in late 2012. The evidence  I have shows
that the agreed payments being paid then were being  made on time and the account was
up-to-date. But that Mrs Ms account started  to fall into arrears  in late 2014. I have also seen
that the arrears reached a level of about three months by September 2015, and thats when
Arrow instructed NCO, who were managing the account for them, to register a default. I
believe this was the right thing for Arrow to do, and that they did it for the right reasons- the
arrears were three months payments and its at that level and higher that the Information
Ref: DRN12581703Commissioners Office (ICO) would expect a lender to tell credit reference agencies to
record an account as in default.
But Mrs M says that she was in default in 2012 because shed gone into a DMP. And that
shed had an arrears letter before then- in late 2011. But an account  is not automatically
registered as a default  because it is entered into a DMP. And the letter  from the original
lender in 2011  is not a Notice of Default. It was a letter asking Mrs M to pay the arrears  to
prevent the account from reaching a point where  it was in default.
The ICO guidance says that if a customer makes  an arrangement through a debt
management company, including the debt charity, for revised terms to an account, and the
lender agrees to those  terms, the account will not be in default until the arrears  reach  three
payments of those terms.
So entering a DMP is not a reason for NCO to enter a default against Mrs M.
I have also considered why Arrow bought Mrs Ms account and whether it was because,
perhaps, arrears were  already three or more  payments. I have seen a letter from the
previous owners of Mrs Ms debt that says they sold the account to Arrow because they
dont keep accounts where a debt management company is assisting a customer. And I
cant see that any arrears at the time Arrow took ownership of the account were at a level
where a default should have already been registered. So I cant  say that it is likely that Mrs
M was in default in 2012,  but I can see she was in default in 2015.
Because of this I am not currently  persuaded that the default information  recorded  by NCO  is
inaccurate or creates a misleading impression  of the account conduct, such  that it should be
amended.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am not minded to uphold this complaint and I do not propose
to require  NCO Europe  Ltd to make any amendment to Mrs Ms credit file.
Ref: DRN1258170