K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) dealt  with the 
renewal of her home insurance policy during an ongoing claim for water damage to her 
property. The policy is a branded one sold through Mrs Hs bank, but RSA accepts 
responsibility for the issues  surrounding  renewal.
background 
In November 2017 Mrs H reported a claim to RSA following a water leak.  The claim and the 
issues surrounding it were  dealt with by this service under a different  complaint.  
In July 2018 Mrs Hs bank contacted her to tell her that RSA wouldnt be offering renewal of 
her policy.  Her bank told her that it was because it had rebranded her postcode as a flood 
risk, though her claim was for escape  of water, not flood. When she complained about this 
RSA initially told her it was her banks decision not to renew, and to contact her bank. It 
contacted her a few days later after it to say that it had had discussions with the team 
responsible for administering policies branded by the bank. It explained that RSA had made 
the decision not to offer new policies in that postcode, but it should  have  had no bearing on 
renewals, and that the bank had acted contrary to its instructions. RSA paid Mrs H £250 
compensation and offered her help in getting insurance. Her bank, confusingly, later wrote to 
her to reiterate that it was RSA that wouldnt offer a policy.
Mrs H was concerned that while the claim was continuing, she had had to find insurance 
elsewhere. She also pointed out that having  checked, she found  that the bank was still 
offering policies to her neighbours,  who had different postcodes. She was further concerned  
that her property had been branded a flood risk, when the claim didnt concern flood water.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that RSA had offered a reasonable 
resolution to the case.
Mrs H didnt agree, and the matter has been  passed  me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I dont think that Mrs H should  have had the renewal of her policy refused when 
her claim was still proceeding.  As she has rightly  pointed  out, finding  new insurance 
mid-claim can be difficult. We would normally expect insurers  to continue to offer renewal of 
a policy  in those  circumstances.
The fact that Mrs Hs bank told her it couldnt  offer renewal appears to be due to a mistake  
between the bank and RSA. And Mrs H received contradictory letters from her bank and 
from RSA. However the position appears  to be that the claim was registered as an escape of 
water, and RSA has confirmed that. If Mrs H needs to disclose the claim in any future  
insurance application, she can rely on what RSA has registered the claim as.
I can understand Mrs Hs concern at her property being branded a flood risk. I believe the 
bank has confirmed to Mrs H that this was a mistake. Certainly  the letter from RSA makes 
clear that it wasnt a flood  claim.
Ref: DRN14160962Having said that, if RSA chooses not to issue new policies in certain areas its free to do so 
as long as it isnt discriminatory  and treats customers that are the same  risk fairly. I know 
Mrs H believes  she is treated differently  from her neighbours,  but RSA has confirmed that 
the bank shouldnt have refused to renew and it offered help to her to find a policy  either 
though the bank or through one of its other  channels. I dont think  therefore she has been 
treated unfairly.  I cant comment on RSAs  general decision not to offer new policies in any 
particular area. My concern is to look at Mrs Hs individual complaint.
Taking into account the trouble and upset caused  to Mrs H by her renewal being refused I 
think RSAs payment of £250 compensation and to help her find other  insurance was an 
appropriate way of resolving the matter. I dont intend to require RSA to take any further 
action.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1416096