K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs C took out in 2000  alongside  a mortgage 
which she arranged at a Halifax  branch.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold her complaint. Mrs C disagreed with this view.  Mrs C is mainly  
concerned that PPI wasnt suitable  for her given her work benefits  already in place with her 
employer. She told us that the PPI was an unnecessary expense.
Mrs C also complained to us about another PPI sale but Halifax has now agreed  to settle 
that complaint.  So Im just dealing here with Mrs Cs complaint about the PPI Halifax  sold her 
in 2000.
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mrs C bought  this PPI. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  Mrs C to remember all the details  of a conversation that happened 
such a long time ago. So what she says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  
her complaint. I have  to look at everything and decide, on balance,  what I think  is most likely.
Mrs Cs mortgage application  includes  a section which gives  brief details about  the benefits  
of PPI. It says We recommend that you consider  our Mortgage Repayments Insurance  
Scheme. (this is what Halifax called its PPI). So I think it wouldve been clear  from this 
wording that it was up to Mrs C to say if she wanted to have PPI with her mortgage.  
Mrs C has signed where it says: Yes, I would  like to take advantage of Mortgage  
Repayments Insurance.
And Ive seen the separate application form Mrs C completed to have the PPI added  on to 
her mortgage account. Shes provided personal information and answered questions  
designed to see if she qualified for PPI. She also applied for some additional benefit for 
mortgage related  costs.  And shes signed the form at the end to say she wished to apply for 
the cover.
I can completely understand why Mrs C mightve  forgotten some of these details now. But, 
based on all the information Ive seen,  I find on balance  that Halifax made Mrs C aware at 
the time that the policy was optional  and that she chose to have it.
Ref: DRN18437522Halifax recommended  PPI to Mrs C. So it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy  
was right for her. Looking  at what Mrs C has told us about her circumstances at the time 
I think the policy was a suitable recommendation. 
Mrs C was eligible for the cover. Although Mrs C told us she was entitled to good sick pay 
through work  and she had some other means  she couldve relied on, this doesnt mean that 
the PPI was unsuitable for her needs. 
PPI wouldve  paid out on top of any employment  benefits for up to 24 months per claim if 
Mrs C was too sick to work  or if she lost her job and was involuntarily  unemployed. 
So the policy  paid out for significantly longer  than she couldve depended  on her employer to 
pay her sick pay. And after going back to work for a qualifying period between  each claim, 
Mrs C couldve  claimed again  under  the policy if shed needed to. And she couldve kept on 
doing this for as long as she had her mortgage.  Her mortgage was a substantial financial 
commitment repayable over a number of years. PPI couldve provided Mrs C with long term 
cover while she was paying for her home. 
I dont know if Mrs C wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to claim.  And as 
she didnt use these  to reduce  the amount of her borrowing, it looks like keeping  some 
savings intact  was important to her at the time.  Having PPI meant she wasnt  at risk of 
having to use her savings to cover her mortgage  monthly repayments  if she couldnt work  
(particularly bearing in mind that she wouldve been on half pay only after 6 months off sick.)
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs C if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
So I think PPI was suitable for her.
Looking at everything Ive been told about  Mrs Cs circumstances, including  her health, it 
doesnt look as if she wouldve  had any particular difficulty making  a claim on the policy  in all 
the circumstances she couldve reasonably  expected.  If she had needed to make a claim for 
taking time off work  as a result of a medical condition  shed  had when she took out this 
policy, she wouldve been able to do this under the terms of this particular policy.  So I think it 
unlikely that having more  information about the policy wouldve put Mrs C off taking it out. 
The approximate monthly cost of this insurance was shown on the application  form she 
signed to arrange the PPI. So Mrs C wouldve been  able to see this information and the 
monthly premium payable seems to have been  acceptable to her at the time. She also took 
out extra cover so it doesnt look like keeping costs  down  was a priority for Mrs C  and 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for her. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mrs C still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been better informed as PPI gave  
her useful protection in her particular situation.  I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it. 
On balance, I dont  find theres enough  information for me to say that Halifax  mis-sold her 
PPI with this mortgage.  
Ref: DRN18437523my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1843752