K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr H bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Capital One shouldve made  it clear  the PPI was optional. And it shouldve got Mr Hs 
agreement to buy it. Mr H says it wasnt  made clear to him that the PPI was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Hs card and PPI postal application. There  was a separate  
section on the form which said Please  enrol me in Capital  Ones  Payment Protection 
Scheme. Mr H ticked Yes next to this statement. He couldve  ticked No if he didnt 
want to buy the PPI. So I think Capital One made Mr H aware that he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it shouldve  provided  clear information to Mr H to allow  him to decide if 
he wanted to buy the policy. Mr H says this didnt happen. 
Ive considered the information provided at the time of sale.  Its possible the 
information Capital  One gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr H couldnt afford to make the monthly 
payments for the PPI at the time of sale. And he doesnt appear to have  been  
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover such as pre-existing medical 
conditions. So based on what I know  about his circumstances it looks  like the policy  
couldve been useful  to him. So I dont  think better  information  wouldve stopped  him 
buying it. And I dont  think Mr Hs lost out due to anything that Capital One mightve 
done wrong.  
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments,  including what hes said about  being able 
to rely on his partners  income and savings. I appreciate  that his partner  wouldve 
wanted to help. But her circumstances could  also have changed  and she may not 
have been able to when  needed. So this doesnt  change my conclusions  above.
Ref: DRN10316802my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1031680