K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss L bought the policy in 1994  at the same  time as taking out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Miss L says she didnt know the PPI had been  added to her account, and that she 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it. Ive noted  everything Miss L has said. The difficulty I 
have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Miss L and the sales person 
when the policy  was sold. Im also mindful that these  events happened many years  
ago. I can also see that Miss L did tick the box on the store card application form to say 
that she wanted the cover. 
Without anything  else to support what Miss L has told me, I havent been  able to safely  
conclude that she wasnt made aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt  have  to ask about  any employer benefits Miss L might  have 
been entitled to.  
 Its possible the information FICL gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Miss L would have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover, and the policy  had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped her buying  it.
Miss L has mentioned  that her friend took out a store  card at the same time, and has 
received a refund of the PPI premiums she paid.  She did the same job as Miss L, so Miss L 
considers her premiums  should be refunded too.
But we assess each  PPI complaint according to its own circumstances, and there  are a 
number of factors that we take into account.  As mentioned earlier in this decision,  our 
approach to PPI complaints is set out on our website.
Ref: DRN18688852Having assessed  the circumstances of Miss Ls complaint,  for the reasons Ive explained Im 
not persuaded that her PPI policy was mis-sold. So I wont be upholding her complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1868885