K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Miss P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres very little from the time of the sale to go on and no sales paperwork. But given how 
long ago the sale was, that isnt surprising. So the lack of information  doesnt itself make  me 
think its likely something was wrong with the sale. Also Miss P doesnt remember much 
about the sale  which, again,  isnt surprising. 
Bearing in mind the limited information  available, what  I have isnt enough  to make me think 
that Halifax didnt  give Miss P a choice about taking the PPI. And I havent seen anything to 
make me think Halifax didnt get Miss Ps agreement before it added the PPI.
From what  shes  told us, Miss P doesnt think she wouldve chosen to take the insurance - 
unless she was advised to do so. So in assessing  the complaint Ive assumed that Halifax  
did advise Miss P to buy the PPI  which  places  on Halifax a higher level of responsibility for 
the sale. If Halifax advised Miss P to buy the PPI as cover that was right for her, Halifax had 
to check the PPI was right for Miss P.
The PPI was cover in case Miss P suffered unemployment or disability.  And based on what  
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think the cover  was right for her. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover  so she couldve  
claimed the benefit if the circumstances arose. And she seems  to have had a need for cover.
I say this taking into account  that the cover  was protection for Miss Ps mortgage  a long 
term and significant  liability  secured  on her home.  For a successful claim, it would help cover 
Miss Ps mortgage payments  and its likely  the benefit payments couldve lasted for up to a 
year. The benefit  wouldve been  paid on top of any work sickness or redundancy pay Miss P 
mightve got. And from what  Miss P has told us, I cant say her work benefits  wouldve 
covered her full pay if she were  sick or wouldve lasted as long as the PPI benefit could. So 
the policy benefit wouldve given Miss P more security at what could be a difficult time if she 
lost her job or was too sick to work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I cant say she didnt want this type of cover  because I havent seen enough to 
make me think she didnt choose  to take it. And it seems like the cover wouldve been useful 
for Miss P if something went wrong   as Ive discussed above. Miss P has said the policy 
was very expensive for the benefit it provided.  And I dont know  what she was told about  the 
costs before she took the policy. But taking everything into account, and with all Ive said 
above in mind, what I have isnt enough  to make  me think that better  information  about the 
PPI or its costs wouldve changed  Miss Ps decision  to take the cover.
Ref: DRN11800892Ive thought about all Miss Ps points but, for the reasons Ive given above,  these  points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1180089