K820x#14The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about being required to pay an additional amount after paying  the 
settlement amount on his hire purchase  agreement (HPA) with FCE Bank Plc.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr E decided  to part exchange his car entered and was provided with a settlement 
quote that was valid until 20 October. The part exchange happened before this date 
and the part exchange  allowance amount matched  the settlement quote.  Therefore, I 
understand why Mr E believed his HPA had been  settled with nothing further owing. 
He then received  a letter  saying there  were  arrears  on his account  of one months 
payment. This amount  was for the September 2018  payment. 
The settlement quote  provided was requested by Mr E on 10 September  2018 and 
was valid until 20 October 2018. The September payment fell due on 27 September 
2018. Therefore,  it fell within  the period of the quote.  FCE Bank has said that the 
settlement quote was based on all payments due up to the settlement date being 
paid. This therefore included  the September payment.
I cannot say what  was discussed with the dealer when Mr E was agreeing his new 
transaction, but I note his comments about not being made aware that he needed to 
make the September payment. As he settled  the agreement before the September 
payment fell due, I can see why he didnt think he was liable  for this. However, for me 
to uphold this complaint  I would need  to be able to say this payment was applied 
unfairly.
Mr E has said that he settled the agreement on 18 September. This was beyond  the 
August payment date. It is reasonable that the settlement quote  would be provided 
based on all payments being  up to date. As the quote was valid until 20 October, I 
accept that this would include the requirement for all payments to that date (including  
the September payment) being  made. 
While  I think  that Mr E could have been provided  with clearer information  about the 
amount that would be due for payment, as I do not find that the September  payment 
was unfairly charged, I do not find I can say that FCE Bank did anything wrong by 
requesting this payment from Mr E.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about FCE Bank Plc. 
Ref: DRN14530942Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1453094