K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage, in 1989. Mrs C says Tipton and Coseley Building Society  mis-sold the PPI policy  
to her.
Im sorry  that Mrs C has had to wait so long for an ombudsman  to consider her complaint.  
This has been due to a legal matter which was believed to have  potentially  affected cases  
like hers.
For ease and consistency Ill refer to Tipton  when describing the business.
background
Initially, one of our adjudicators said they thought Mrs Cs complaint might  be upheld.  But 
Tipton disagreed  and sent in some  more documents and explanations  which  it said showed 
the PPI was sold appropriately. Another adjudicator then reviewed  her case  and they 
recommended that in the light of the new information we shouldnt  uphold her complaint. 
Mrs C disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont dispute Mrs Cs recollections and views about  
the sale are genuinely and honestly  held. However, her central point of complaint  is that 
she has no recollection of ever asking for or wanting such  a policy. But she also thinks  she 
was led to believe she needed some form of cover  to get her mortgage approved.
I also take into account that these events are now some 30 years  old. So I wouldnt be 
particularly surprised if Mrs C cant recall everything.  And Im afraid the documentation Ive 
seen makes me think its more likely it was discussed  and I think  she agreed  to it.
I say this because  Mrs C completed a mortgage  application form. There  was a section on 
the form about PPI which was entitled:  ACCIDENT, SICKNESS AND UNEMPLOYMENT  
COVER.  It then said would  you like us to arrange cover? Yes / No. I see the no option 
was crossed out and Mrs C signed  the application form.
So I think the PPI was talked about  when Mrs C met with Tipton  in 1989. Theres no dispute 
PPI was eventually  added  and I note we also have a copy  of a policy  schedule,  which  
Tipton says would have  been given to Mrs C at the time. We also have a copy  of a 1992  
letter which Mrs C was sent, which talks about changes to the policy.  I note Mrs C went  on 
to cancel the policy in 1993.
So Im afraid  all these things show me that PPI was offered to Mrs C at the time of the 
mortgage interview. I think the options  on the form would  have allowed her to easily see it 
Ref: DRN18859542was optional and that she didnt need to buy it if she didnt want  to. I also think  theres 
evidence of her being  able to see such a policy had been set up for her. 
As Ive said,  I do appreciate these events will be very hard to remember but I think  the 
evidence shows its much more likely  that Mrs C agreed to the PPI.
My understanding is that Tiptons  procedures at the time were  generally to tell consumers 
about PPI and not to advise them during the sale. The nature and layout of the mortgage 
application form tends  to support this. It was therefore Mrs Cs own decision about  whether 
she wanted PPI with her mortgage although Tipton still needed  to provide enough 
information so she could make an informed decision about what  she wanted to do. 
Mrs C told us she was self-employed at the time of the sale. We do know  that sometimes 
self-employed people  can find it difficult to make a successful claim for unemployment.
But I dont think Mrs C was self-employed at the time of the sale.  
Her employment may have changed  during the course of when her mortgage  was agreed  
to when it actually  started  several months later.  But her mortgage application form clearly 
shows her stating she was employed and she also provided the name  of her employer as 
confirmation of this. It appears her role changed  later on, because she did later became  a 
self-employee at some future  point.  
However I dont think Tipton  was at fault.  At the time of the mortgage  being agreed,  Mrs C 
clearly said she was employed, not self-employed. And Tiptons mortgage offer required any 
significant changes  (such as this) to be notified  to it, because it was clearly a material 
change. Tipton says no such  changes were notified.  The sale of the PPI was, as Ive said,  
non-advised. So I think Tipton properly obtained  her consent based on the circumstances  
reported to it by Mrs C at the time of the meeting. I think  Mrs C would or should  have  known 
that material changes  to her circumstances were her responsibility to disclose.  
So at the time of the sale I think the cover was suitable for Mrs C. She was eligible and not 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. At the time of the 
sale, in the event of a successful claim for accident  or sickness however, the policy could  
have met her repayments until for up to 18 months.  So I think the policy was suitable for her 
and I think thats  why she probably wanted  to have it.
I cant say that Mrs C was told everything  she ought to have been.  But for a sale which is 
now 30 years old, we still have documentation  which shows  the disclosure of information  
was probably quite good. I therefore think she had enough information on which to make  an 
informed choice.
To summarise then, I think PPI was discussed and theres  clear  evidence Mrs C agreed to it. 
I think the policy was of use, was suitable and I dont  think it was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint or direct  Tipton  and Coseley 
Building Society to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Ref: DRN18859543Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1885954