K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about poor customer  service  by Clydesdale Bank Plc in its 
administration of their mortgage  account.
background
Mr and Mrs B have  a mortgage with Clydesdale. In 2017 they were experiencing some  
financial difficulties. They asked for a payment holiday, but were told instead that there was 
an overpayment on the account and this could be refunded. Unfortunately this wasnt 
correct, and Clydesdale later said it couldnt do that.
Mr and Mrs B also wanted to change the payment date on the account from the 2nd of the 
month to the 28th. Again, Clydesdale said it could do this, but later explained  that it couldnt 
while there were arrears on the account.  
Mrs B spoke to Clydesdale at length and it was eventually agreed that Clydesdale  could use 
overpayments on the main account  to pay down arrears on three sub accounts. Clydesdale 
could then spread  the remaining arrears over five months so they could be paid off. 
Clydesdale also intended to switch the payment  date to the 28th, but didnt tell Mr and Mrs B.
After an interest rate change a system-generated letter  was sent explaining  that the monthly 
payment had gone up. But this didnt take into account the payment arrangement. Payments 
were made in accordance with the letter, but this led to Clydesdale telling Mr and Mrs B 
theyd broken the payment arrangement. 
Mr and Mrs B were  also told that their arrears were higher than theyd thought, because 
Clydesdale had changed the payment date but not told Mr and Mrs B. So the payment due 
on the 2nd was being held over until the 28th. But because the bank considered  Mr and Mrs B 
to have broken  the payment arrangement, the payment in that month  had become due.
Clydesdale then told Mr and Mrs B that the arrears would in fact take 14 months to clear, 
rather than the three  months she thought was left under  the payment arrangement.  Mrs B 
was also told the payment  date hadnt  been  changed. 
Unhappy with Clydesdale,  Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. By this point, 
Clydesdale had accepted its service had been  poor. It had paid compensation totalling £180. 
The first adjudicator who looked at the complaint asked Clydesdale  to pay a further £100. 
The bank agreed, but Mr and Mrs B didnt accept  this. Another adjudicator looked at the 
complaint. She thought £100  was too low for the trouble and upset Clydesdale had caused 
by its poor customer service. She asked the bank to pay £500. Clydesdale agreed, but Mr 
and Mrs B wanted £1,000. So it now falls to me to decide this matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
What has happened  in this matter isnt in dispute.  So I dont need to make  any findings of 
fact about whether Clydesdale gave Mr and Mrs B incorrect information, or that it didnt 
communicate properly  with them. 
Ref: DRN18055332Its not disputed  by Clydesdale that its customer service  fell short  of the standard  that it 
should have provided to Mr and Mrs B. Clydesdale also acknowledges that the way it dealt 
with the account resulted in Mr and Mrs B suffering distress,  inconvenience, trouble and 
upset. 
Ive reviewed the file and listened to the available phone calls.  The issues  Mr and Mrs B are 
unhappy about are, individually, relatively minor issues of poor service.  But I cant  say it any 
better than Aristotle:  the whole  is greater  than the sum of its parts. In other  words,  all these 
fairly small  issues  of poor customer  service  happening over a relatively  short space of time, 
when considered together, had a greater cumulative effect on Mr and Mrs B than if theyd  
experienced them as individual events.  
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were caused distress  and 
inconvenience. I think £500 compensation for this  in addition  to the £180 already paid by 
Clydesdale  is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the events giving rise to the award. Ive 
also taken into account that this was happening at a time when Mr and Mrs B were under 
great personal stress  and Mr B was in poor health.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. My decision is that, in addition  to compensation 
of £180 already paid, Clydesdale Bank Plc must pay Mr and Mrs B a further £500 
compensation, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1805533