K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 2004. 
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  the PPI.
background
The PPI was part of a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan, which can also include other types  of 
cover like life cover.  Miss Ms complaint is about  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs M has told us that extras like the PPI were  put on after shed signed  for her mortgage. 
From what  we know of how Halifax sold PPI cover like Mrs Ms, I think  Halifax  would 
normally make it clear  PPI didnt have to be taken and give customers  like Mrs M a choice 
about taking it. Mrs M says this didnt  happen in her case. She has told us she recalls 
Halifaxs adviser telling her she had to take the PPI. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  But apart from Mrs Ms recollections, I dont have anything 
else to suggest  that Halifax  didnt give a choice to Mrs M like I think it normally would. And 
Mrs Ms recollections are of an event that took place some years  earlier.
Taking all this into account, on balance I havent seen enough to make  me think Halifax  
misled Mrs M by telling  she had to take the PPI. And I havent  enough  to make me think that 
Halifax didnt make it clear the PPI was optional before adding it to Mrs Ms mortgage  or that 
Mrs M didnt  agree to this. But I acknowledge that this isnt how Mrs M recalls the sale.
If Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs M, it had to do more and check the PPI was right for 
her. This would place on Halifax a higher level of responsibility for the sale. And Halifax 
thinks it did recommend Mrs M the PPI. So I think its fair to assess  the case on that basis.  
So Halifax  had to check the PPI was right for Mrs M. And based on what Ive seen  of her 
circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for Mrs M. For example she wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a 
need for the cover.
I say this taking into account  that the PPI was protection for a mortgage - a long term liability  
secured on Mrs Ms home. And for a successful unemployment or disability claim the PPI 
would pay out and help Mrs M with her mortgage  payments  for up to two years per claim.  So 
the PPI benefit  could  help at what could be a difficult time if Mrs M were unemployed or too 
ill to work.  And from what Mrs M has told us, she wouldnt have received anything  more than 
statutory benefits  if she lost her job or was too sick to work.
Ref: DRN13587542Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, for the reasons  Ive given above,  it seems like the cover would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. And although  Mrs M has said that looking back she had to 
struggle to pay the extra money, it doesnt look to me like the PPI was unaffordable when 
Mrs M took it. So, bearing in mind  what Ive already said above, and taking everything else 
into account, I dont  think better information about  the PPI would have put Mrs M off taking 
out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mrs Ms points  but, for the reasons  Ive already given above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.  
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358754