K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the settlement their home insurer  AXA Insurance UK Plc has 
offered to them in response to a claim they made for a stolen bicycle.
background
Mrs Bs bicycle was stolen. It was covered under the home insurance policy  they held with 
AXA. AXA accepted the claim and appointed a supplier to replace the bicycle.  It was felt a 
like-for-like replacement for the bicycle would be the newer model and AXA agreed to 
replace on that basis along with all the relevant accessories  the cost of that was £933.08. 
Mr and Mrs B were  happy with the suggested amount for replacement. But they didnt like 
the supplier AXA was saying they had to use. They said the customer reviews  for it were 
poor and as it only operated on-line Mrs B wouldnt  be able to test the bicycle  or have it set 
up for her. AXA said if they wanted  to take cash it would pay them £747.18. Mr and Mr B 
said this was unfair as it would leave them out of pocket for purchasing  a replacement.
AXA wrote to Mr and Mrs B. It said that the policy allowed it to choose  to replace or pay cash  
at the price it would  cost it to replace. It explained that the supplier it had wanted to use 
offers it a discount   so the true cost to it of replacing the bicycle would only be £747.18  
which is what it offered to settle the claim in cash. It felt it had acted fairly. Mr and Mrs B 
complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she felt AXA had acted in line with the policy 
terms. She noted that if there were  problems with the service received from the supplier, or 
with the bicycle  it supplied, AXA would be responsible for that. 
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with the findings. They likened the situation to having to buy a 
car without  test driving it  something  no reasonable person would be prepared to do. They 
said it was unfair for them to be forced  to do so, which might lead to also receiving 
inferior/damaged/partially incomplete goods,  or, in the alternative, be left out of pocket (by 
accepting a low cash settlement). Mr and Mrs B said they should be able to use a local 
retailer without being out of pocket.  Mr and Mrs B felt AXA should have spoken to them  
about their compliant before it wrote to them stating its final position.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Noting Mr and Mrs Bs last point first, its up to AXA how it decides to deal with complaints. 
Handling a complaint isnt a regulated activity, so I cant comment  on whether  AXA should 
have discussed  the matter with Mr and Mrs B or not.
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs B are saying about purchasing a new car. But this isnt about 
purchasing a new item. Whilst  this claim is for a bicycle, the situation would be no different 
for a car  the cover  is provided on the basis of entitling the policyholder  to a like-for-like 
replacement. The exact make and model  of bike Mr and Mrs B had isnt available,  so AXA 
has determined, and Mr and Mrs B havent  shown otherwise,  that the new model now 
provided by the maker  of the bicycle that was stolen, is a like-for-like replacement. So that is 
what Mr and Mrs B are entitled to receive.   
Ref: DRN16589362Now if Mrs B reviewed  the statistics of the new model, or tried out one of these bikes,  even 
after having  received it from AXAs supplier, and found that, for example, the lowest  height 
on the saddle is four inches higher than the previous  model  and the bicycle is, therefore, too 
big for her  then it isnt a like-for-like replacement. In that instance AXA would have  to find 
an alternative. But unless or until it is shown that the model it is prepared  to provide isnt like 
that which Mrs B had before, Im not persuaded the settlement  it has put forward is unfair or 
unreasonable. 
I know Mr and Mrs B feel they cant trust the supplier. But the supplier is acting for AXA,  so if 
it were to fail them by providing bad service or faulty/incomplete  goods, AXA would have to 
resolve that. I can understand that Mr and Mrs B dont want  to be hassled with that. But even 
a whole page of bad customer  reviews  isnt reason enough for me to say AXA cant 
reasonably use that supplier. AXA must trust it and only if a supplier/insurer  fails a 
policyholder in some way can I reasonably  require  action  to be taken. A possibility  of failure 
isnt sufficient.  
I see Mr and Mrs B are worried  that having  a bicycle supplied by the on-line retailer will strip 
them of the support they received from their local retailer in setting the bike up for use. But 
the terms of the cover  they agreed to with AXA dont allow them  to choose how replacement 
is made. The cover offers  to provide a replacement like-for-like bicycle  in the event of loss. 
That is what  AXA has arranged to do. If Mr and Mrs B want to use a local retailer then they 
can take a cash  settlement  but that will be restricted as allowed for by the policy.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1658936