K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs N in 1995. The policy 
protected Mr N against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion and theyve  asked for a review. So this complaint comes to me to make  a final 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs N mainly complain that they werent  given any choice about the PPI  they say it 
was blended with the mortgage. And they feel that because  their case is historical, it hasnt 
been properly  investigated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available.  
I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs N. But I wouldnt expect Santander  or 
Mr and Mrs N to have kept this. And it wouldnt be reasonable  to expect Mr and Mrs N to 
recall in detail what  was said at the time after so long. So I cant know exactly what  was 
discussed when  they took out PPI for Mr N.
I have to look at the available  information  and decide what  I think is most likely. 
Although Santander couldnt provide any documents from the sale, its records show that PPI 
was taken out to protect Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage  monthly repayments almost  2 years after 
the mortgage was set up  without any PPI. Mr N wouldve had to fill in a separate 
application form to take out PPI. I can completely understand  if Mr and Mrs N have now 
forgotten these details.  But I think they wouldve understood at the time that PPI wasnt 
automatically part of their mortgage  and that it was up to them  to apply  for cover if they 
wanted to have it.
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ns home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why they mightve  felt PPI was useful to have  at the time. On balance,  
I think its likely that they decided they wanted  the benefits the policy could offer.  And PPI 
was added to their account  when they took it out to cover  Mr N.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs N and it seems to have  been  right for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.  
Ref: DRN10289352Mr N was eligible for the policy. I havent seen anything to suggest  it was inappropriate that 
the cover  was just in Mr Ns name. The PPI wouldve  paid out for at least 12 months   and 
possibly up to 24 months - each  time Mr N made a successful claim.  It protected him in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  And he couldve made repeated  claims - so 
the policy wouldve  given  Mr and Mrs N long term cover  for their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs N told us they didnt  have any other  significant means to fall back  on if Mr N 
couldnt work. So I think losing Mr Ns income wouldve had a significant impact  on 
Mr and Mrs Ns joint finances. I think having  PPI wouldve been important to Mr and Mrs N at 
the time as it provided them with dependable cover whilst they were  paying for their home.
Its possible some of the information  Mr N was given about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if that 
affected Mr N. So, I dont  think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs N off taking  it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr N when he applied for the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs N arent suggesting  that they couldnt afford the monthly  
premiums. They wouldve had to set up separate payment arrangements at their bank to 
cover the cost of the monthly premiums when they took out the PPI. So it looks like they 
were happy  to do this at the time. Mr and Mrs N couldve cancelled  the policy at any time if 
their circumstances changed or they no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs N still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  for Mr N even if theyd been 
better informed as the policy  gave useful protection in Mr and Mrs Ns particular situation. 
So I dont  find that Mr and Mrs N lost out as a result of anything  Santander mightve  done 
wrong. This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1028935