K822xcomplaint
Ms O complains that Virgin Money  plc misled her about her credit  card account and applied 
a permanent block unfairly.
background 
Ms O held a credit  card account with Virgin for some years. In the summer of 2018 she 
encountered some  short term financial  difficulties  when her self employed income dried  up. 
She contacted Virgin on 23 July 2018  and it agreed  to re-age her plan but it failed to action 
this. She made a complaint  which  was referred to this service and it was settled in 
December 2018  with Virgin paying  her £50 compensation.
Ms O made a second  complaint  in January 2019 that Virgin  had applied  a permanent block.  
She said she wouldnt have settled her previous complaint had she known this would 
happen. She felt the block came about  because Virgin had not altered her account correctly. 
She also said that it had misled her in saying her account would run as normal  if she 
continued to make the minimum payments.  
She believed  Virgin  had broken the banking code  in its communications  and it had 
irrevocably eroded  her faith in financial institutions. Virgin  rejected her complaint and the 
matter was considered  by one of our investigators.
He referred to the call and error  made by Virgin which had been  addressed  in the previous 
complaint and noted that it written to Ms O on 11 October to tell her a permanent block  had 
been put in place. It said it had done so because  it was concerned at the risk to the account. 
Our investigator noted Ms O had missed  her May and June payments and the next one was 
due the day she called  Virgin. He listened  to the call recording and thought Ms O had been 
given the impression that the arrangement would return her account  to a normal position. 
However, he noted Virgin was entitled  to block the account if it saw fit to do so. Ms O owed a 
significant sum. Despite  this he thought  Virgin could have been more  transparent  and he 
suggested it pay Ms O compensation of £50.
Virgin agreed, but said that it wouldnt normally give customers  advance notice. Ms O didnt 
agree and suggested that Virgins actions had stemmed from its failure to act on the 
payment plan. She thought it should  have made this clear during the course  of the previous  
complaint. She also said the complaints team hadnt  been  aware  of the block  and Virgin  
hadnt followed the banking code. Also she didnt think the impact  on her had been  fully 
taken into account.  Finally she felt the compensation would  simply be use to reduce her 
debt. The investigator  responded  to each of these issues  and the matter  has been referred 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is unfortunate that Ms O fell into temporary financial difficulties and I see that after missing 
two payments she contacted Virgin to discuss her situation. I agree with the investigator that 
during that call the call handler didnt address the fact a third payment was due that day. It 
Ref: DRN13837262would have been better if this had been  covered. Nonetheless a payment  plan was agreed 
and this was reasonable.  The fact it wasnt actioned is not the subject of this complaint.
The issue  is did that error lead to the permanent block. I can see why Ms O thinks  it did, but I 
am not so persuaded. Looking at the account from Virgins  perspective Ms O owed  a 
significant sum and had missed two payments and then a third. If the account  remained 
open Ms O could have  continued to use it and to incur greater debt which  she may not have 
been able to pay. 
I appreciate she had a new job in the offing and her situation was temporary, but Virgin  
chose not to take a further risk. It was entitled  to make that commercial decision and it is not 
something with which  I would interfere. Nor was it required  to warn her. Some customers  
could choose  to use their card to spend  beyond  their means before it is blocked. I am not 
suggesting Ms O would have done  so, but it was reasonable of Virgin to have taken this 
approach.
So while I think there was a degree  of confusion I dont believe Virgin  has fallen outside the 
banking code. I am not sure why Ms O was unaware  of the block  when she settled her 
previous complaint given she had been  notified of it in October. It is unfortunate that Ms O 
has suffered loss of trust in financial institutions, but I dont believe I can ask Virgin  to pay 
any greater sum. However,  I am happy  to direct it pay her the compensation direct rather  
than reduce her credit card debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Virgin Money  plc to pay 
Ms O £50 compensation.  This should be paid to her rather  than used  to reduce her credit  
card account  debt. Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms O to accept or reject my decision before 2 September  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1383726