K821x#15complaint
Miss P is complaining that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage)  has found 
her partially responsible  for an accident  after she made a claim on her car insurance policy. 
background
Miss P took out a car insurance  policy  through  Advantage. The named driver on the policy 
(Mr P) was involved in an accident so they reported  the incident to Advantage to claim for 
the damage on Miss Ps policy. They said that Mr P was turning right when the other driver 
suddenly tried to overtake  them at speed  and collided into their car. Miss P said it was a 
single lane, so she says the other driver shouldnt have looked to overtake them.  And she 
held the other driver fully at fault. 
Advantage said that it would look to hold the other  driver  at fault, but said that the claim may 
be settled on a split liability basis. Miss P didnt agree with that and maintained  that the other  
driver was fully at fault. Advantage asked if there were any witnesses to the accident  or 
potential CCTV footage. Miss P said there was a nearby business centre which was likely to 
have CCTV footage and she asked Advantage to get that. The call handler  said that usually 
it would  be for her to get it and he asked that she contacted the businesses to get it. Miss P 
said that shed  wait to see the outcome of the liability investigation before she did so.
Advantage later agreed to settle  the claim on a 50/50 split liability  basis. It said case  law 
suggests that Mr P would be held partially responsible  for the accident  as he had a 
responsibility to ensure  it was clear to turn right and be aware of cars coming from behind.
Miss P then complained to Advantage about the way it had handled the claim. In particular 
she raised the following points:
1.Advantage didnt  get the CCTV footage which she says would have shown she wasnt  at 
fault for the accident;
2.Advantage didnt  give her any updates  on the claim and she says she only got updates  
when she asked  what was happened;
3.The other driver used  a solicitor rather than their own insurer.  She thinks  she would have 
got a more favourable outcome had she done so. She thinks  Advantage has taken the 
easier option just to settle the claim;
4.She spent three hours on the phone  often on hold  and had to dispute at length  with 
Advantages call handler that her no claims discount wouldnt be affected because it was 
protected;
5.She wasnt given a courtesy car straightaway  and had to make a number of calls to get 
it. Shes also unhappy that Advantage then suddenly took it away  despite previously 
reassuring her that it would give her 24 hours notice.
Advantage initially apologised for the length  of time Miss P had to spend  on the phone due 
to long wait times. And it offered her £30 in compensation for that. It later reviewed the way it 
had handled  the claim and it agreed  with Miss P that the customer service it had provided 
wasnt of the standard it would expect. And it offered her a further £150 in compensation. But 
it said it was entitled  to make the decision to settle  the claim on a split liability basis.
Miss P then asked this service to step in. Our adjudicator partially  upheld  the complaint. He 
thought Advantages compensation offer for the customer  service provided was fair. He also 
thought it was entitled to make the decision to settle the claim on a split liability basis.  But he 
Ref: DRN14531332said that it should have also clearly explained to Miss P when she first called to report  the 
incident that CCTV footage is usually only kept for 30 days. And he thought, had it done so, 
Miss P would have  taken  steps to recover it. He said he didnt think  it would have changed 
the outcome,  but he thought that this had caused Miss P some further distress and 
inconvenience. And he thought Advantage should  pay her a further  £100  in compensation.
Miss P accepted  the adjudicators opinion, but Advantage didnt agree. So the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why.
There are two issues to this complaint that I have  to consider:
1.Was Advantages decision to settle the claim on a split liability basis  fair; and
2.Is its compensation offer for the way it handled  the claim fair?
I shall deal with each  point separately.
decision to settle  the claim on a split liability basis
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether  Advantage has 
carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable 
decision.
Miss Ps policy, like all other car insurance policies, allows  Advantage to take  over and 
conduct the defence  or settlement of any claim.  So its entitled  to settle the claim,  on the 
best terms it thinks fit. And it has the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it 
must exercise this right fairly  and reasonably.
Advantage has said that previous case law suggests  that a court  would have found Mr P 
partially responsible  for the accident.  It said that, as the party  turning right, he had a 
responsibility to ensure  it was clear to do so. And it said that included being aware of any 
vehicles coming from behind him. Miss P said that this case law was in respect to being  
aware of motorcycles. And she maintained that the other driver was driving contrary  to the 
requirements of the road. I note her comments, but I cant say that Advantage has come to 
an unfair conclusion,  given previous case law and Mr Ps responsibility under the Highway 
Code. Its entitled  to consider its previous experience in similar  cases  and the likely outcome 
if the claim was to proceed  to court.
However, I agree with the adjudicator that Advantage should have been  clearer with Miss P 
that she would only have 30 days to request the CCTV  footage.  I also think it should  have 
taken steps itself to get the footage. But Im not persuaded that it would have likely to have  
changed the outcome, given the case law and Mr Ps responsibility under the Highway 
Code. 
Ref: DRN14531333The facts  of the matter  werent in dispute  and, even if the CCTV footage fully supported 
Miss Ps version of events, I think Advantage would have still come  to the same conclusion. 
And it was entitled  to make this decision under the terms of the policy.
However, I think this would have caused  her some further distress and inconvenience  in 
finding out shes lost the opportunity  to get this herself  especially given shes pursuing a 
private legal  claim against the other  driver.  And I agree  with the adjudicator  that Advantage 
should pay her a further £100 for this.
customer service
Ive taken all of Miss Ps comments  in this respect.  Advantage  has also acknowledged that 
her concerns  are justified.  But its already  offered her £180 in compensation for this  £30 for 
the length of time she was on hold and £150 for the general customer  service it provided 
her. I think this is in line with what I would have awarded so I havent commented on her 
concerns in this respect, apart from to say I agree with her that the customer service 
Advantage provided her wasnt what she was entitled to expect.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to increase the compensation its offered to 
£280 for the distress and inconvenience  its unfairly  caused Miss P for the way it handled 
this claim.  It should pay this to her directly  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1453133