K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Wesleyan Assurance  Society wont honour a commitment  that he wouldnt 
be charged an advice  fee if he transferred more of his pension policies from other providers.
background
Mr M has a number  of pension policies with several providers. Hes been a long-standing 
client of Wesleyan which specialises in financial  services for the medical profession. In June  
2011 he and his partner met with a Wesleyan advisor K for a financial review, including his 
pension provision. As Mr M had so many  policies, a meeting was planned for August, once 
Mr M had decided which of them he wished to transfer to Wesleyan.
Following the June 2011 meeting the advisor  emailed Mr M to say thered be no charge  for 
transferring his policies to Wesleyan, but hed need  the policy numbers to prepare specific  
illustrations. At the August meeting, transfer request forms were completed for the policies 
Mr M said hed like to consider transferring to Wesleyan, which  included  a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP)  with provider F. This plan is sometimes  referred to as the third A 
plan, as providers  A and F merged at some  point. But for clarity Ill refer to this plan as F.
Mr M decided to transfer policies with providers A and C to Wesleyan,  which completed in 
November 2011.  The advisor told Mr M he if he wanted to transfer the F policy  in the 
future, he could do so with just a letter of authority,  as the transfer paperwork had already 
been completed. 
In February 2013  Mr M emailed the same  advisor  with queries about his ISA and the impact  
of changes to pension legislation. At the end of April 2013  Mr M asked K if he still had the list 
of his pension  policies checked for transfer. K explained the information previously 
captured 18 months previously was now out of date, so theyd have to complete a new 
application. But he advised that Wesleyan now imposed  a 3% charge on new business, 
including transfers  from existing pensions. In 2017 Mr M complained  to Wesleyan because  
he was told in 2011 no charge would apply. 
Wesleyan said K had told Mr M he could transfer  on the same terms within six months.  But 
future changes to legislation or its terms of business  couldnt have been foreseen.  It 
explained the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) in 2012 prompted Wesleyan to review  its 
charging structure and this had been  explained to Mr M consistently since 2013. However 
when the policy with F transferred to Wesleyan  in June 2015 it had waived the charge by 
applying additional  units as the policy had formed part of the discussions in 2011. But the 
charge would apply to any other transfers in the future.
Mr M said Wesleyan  had failed to honour its commitment and thought he should be 
permitted to transfer his remaining policies without  the fee, plus compensation for his time. 
So he complained to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought Wesleyan had acted  fairly  by 
waiving the 3% charge for the transfer  of the policy with F. But he didnt  think it was obliged  
to do the same for Mr Ms other  policies. 
Mr M feels the investigator is biased towards the business. So its been  passed to me to 
make a decision.
Ref: DRN16308262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr M so let me explain why.
Ill first explain we provide  an informal dispute  resolution service and were completely  
impartial and objective. We dont take direction from either party about how a complaint will 
be investigated, and we decide what information  we need to reach  a fair and reasonable 
outcome. The case  file is by now very large,  and Id like to reassure Mr M I have reviewed 
everything carefully. If I dont comment on something it wont  be because its been  
overlooked, Ive simply focussed on what I consider  is the key issue.  Which is whether its 
fair of Wesleyan to charge Mr M a 3% fee for any future transfers-in of his pension plans. 
Ive looked at the transfer paperwork provider F sent to Wesleyan in 2011, which  included  a 
transfer valuation  as at 22 September 2011. This suggests the application was sent to F 
soon after the advisors second meeting with Mr M. F says the actual transfer value  will be 
calculated using  the unit prices  on the day after the date of receipt of all our requirements. 
So the transfer value in the letter is indicative only, and not the actual  value to be used if the 
application proceeded. 
Ive also seen Wesleyans  system  notes  from 1 November 2011 of a call with K following a 
further meeting  with Mr M the evening before. Mr M had raised some queries and K wanted  
to check with Wesleyan  before  replying.  Mr M was concerned about the impact of the 
transfer delay  on his policy values - he wanted  to purchase units in the Wesleyan plan while  
the market was low. Hed asked if hed need  to go through the transfer process again if he 
decided to transfer the F plan down the line. Wesleyan  confirmed to K that if Mr M did so in 
3-6 months he (K) would have access to the current  file, and Mr M could just sign the 
relevant forms and submit  them with a handwritten letter. 
It doesnt appear Mr M wanted to transfer  his other  policies at that time,  but he thought  
Wesleyan should  just carry out his instructions in the future if he decided to. K told Mr M 
even for an execution-only transaction (where Wesleyan doesnt provide advice) theyd still 
need to approach the other providers for valuations, and theyd need to show  an audit  trail 
and provide illustrations. This is because an advisor is required to check the proposed  
transfer wouldnt involve  the loss of valuable benefits such  as protected  rights or guaranteed 
annuity rates. 
K emailed Mr M back with responses  to his queries and reminded him he could transfer the 
other funds that had been  discussed  at our meeting  with just a letter of authority. I think  this 
confirms the offer only applied to the policy with F, as the others hadnt been  discussed 
during the meeting, and transfer applications  hadnt  been submitted to the other providers. 
That email  didnt specify a deadline  within which the transfer of the policy with F could take 
place with just a letter of authority. I think Mr M was aware policy valuations fluctuate which 
is why he was concerned  about how long the transfers were taking. So I think  he should 
have expected the valuation would need to be updated, particularly some  18 months later.  
Although it wasnt put in writing I think its very likely  K would  have mentioned the six-month  
timescale, and in any case Mr M appeared to want to proceed quite quickly  while the market 
was low. 
Ref: DRN16308263Yet Mr M didnt approach Wesleyan about  his pension plans until April 2013. And he didnt 
say he intended  to transfer the policy with F (or any others) to Wesleyan,  he simply asked if 
K still had the policy list. 
K replied by email on 1 May 2013 At the time we said that if you changed your mind  [about 
transferring the policy from F to Wesleyan] we would  not have to go through the application 
process again if it was within 6 months, as the existing file information  would  still be valid.  
This confirms Mr M had been made  aware  verbally  that offer was open for six months (so at 
the latest until May 2012). It goes on to say theyd  have to start a new application  process 
because . it has now been almost 18 months and all of the information would be out of 
date. Im not persuaded Mr M reasonably  believed K had given an open-ended commitment 
binding on his firm enabling  him to transfer his other policies to Wesleyan at any point in the 
future on the same terms as the transfers in 2011.  Wesleyan  likened it to Mr M proceeding 
with a treatment plan and cost agreed 18 months previously rather  than reassessing  a 
patient.  
The 1 May 2013 email  from K continued  Can I also point out that since the FSAs Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR) was implemented in January 2013  we now have to levy a 3% 
initial charge  on all pension contributions,  lump  sum or regular including transfers from 
existing pensions.
The changes imposed by RDR gave Wesleyan  the opportunity to review its terms of 
business in line with the more onerous regulatory requirements on advisors, which  reduced 
its appetite for accepting  pension transfers.  This involved  it revising  its transfer process with 
the updated version applying from April 2014. 
Of course the work  of an advisor has never  been  free, its always had to be paid for, but 
prior to RDR an advisor would receive  commission from the product provider. But RDR put 
an end to commission, which was intended to remove financial incentives which may 
influence advice, and to make charges more transparent to consumers. Instead of 
commission being hidden  within fund charges, the cost of the advice being given had to be 
set out clearly at the outset. 
Wesleyan is entitled  to exercise its commercial judgement about the type of business  it 
wishes to engage  in and thats  not something  we would interfere with. It decided  not to apply 
the 3% charge retrospectively. But for any new business  as subsequent transfers of Mr 
Ms other pension policies  would be  are subject to the charge. I think  Mr M was made 
aware this would be the case since  May 2013,  and at that point he hadnt started the formal 
transfer process for his other policies. 
Mr M says information about  the likely outcome  of RDR was in the public domain prior to 
2012 so K should have made him aware.  And he asked to see evidence of Wesleyans 
internal decision-making  process about  how the charges were imposed. I agree with 
Wesleyan that even if K was aware RDR was coming, he couldnt  be expected to foresee 
future changes to its terms of business. And its not reasonable  to expect an advisor to know  
precisely how any changes might impact a particular client more than a year in advance. 
Hes unlikely  to have  thought it necessary to discuss the implications of RDR with Mr M as 
he was expecting him to transfer his policy from F before  RDR applied.  
Its possible Mr M would have  gone  ahead with the transfer of the F policy  (and the others) in 
2011 had he known about the 3% charge in advance. But it was his decision not to do so, 
and that reason may still have been valid, even if hed known about the charge. As he hadnt 
Ref: DRN16308264completed the transfer applications for the other policies I cant say on the balance  of 
probabilities hed have transferred everything  in 2011. But because the policy with F had 
been included  in the original discussion, Wesleyan enabled Mr M to transfer that policy  in 
2015, waiving  the fee by way of additional  units,  so he hasnt been disadvantaged. 
Mr M can decide whether  to apply to transfer  his other policies to Wesleyan. Or he can shop 
around for a firm with lower charges if thats the most important consideration for him. But I 
dont consider Wesleyan made a commitment to Mr M that theyd treat him differently from 
other customers by waiving the fee for any additional transfers. 
So I dont  uphold this complaint and dont require Wesleyan to allow Mr M to transfer  his 
other policies without paying the 3% fee.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1630826