K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  the service provided by British  Gas Insurance  Limited  
in relation to a central heating insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F contacted British Gas on 28 February 2018 as their boiler wasnt  working. The 
first available appointment was not until 5 March 2018 and British Gas said they would also 
complete the annual  service at the same time. It was 18 months since the last annual  
service had been done. The next day, Mr and Mrs F complained about  having to wait that 
long but British Gas told them it had to prioritise vulnerable consumers, as the weather was 
extremely cold and could  not come out any sooner. 
An engineer  attended on 5 March  2018  and serviced the boiler, but Mr F had managed  to 
get the boiler working the day before and the engineer  couldnt  find a fault.  It was agreed 
that no excess would be charged,  as no repairs had been needed.
At the end of April 2018, Mr and Mrs F contacted British  Gas,  as the boiler had stopped  
working again. British  Gas told them  it would  attend the next day but no one attended. British 
Gas rescheduled  the appointment for the next day and offered £30.00 compensation for the 
missed appointment.  An engineer attended on 26 April 2018  and diagnosed a part needed  
replacing, which was fitted the following day. I understand there have been no further  
problems with the boiler since  then.  
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the service provided  to them. They  are unhappy  that they 
were to be charged an excess for the April visit when this was the same problem from March  
which the engineer failed  to identify; the delay in carrying out the annual service  and then 
carrying this out as part of a repair visit. They also say they had been pressured to close the 
complaint and that the £30.00 compensation offered was conditional on the complaint being 
closed.
British Gas apologised and agreed to waive the excess, as the April 2018  claim was a 
continuation of the visit in March 2018  for which the excess was waived as it was done  as an 
annual service. British  Gas also acknowledged  that the complaint hadnt been handled 
correctly. It offered a further £150 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs F remain unhappy  and say the compensation offered doesnt  fully reflect  the 
problems they experienced,  especially the five days without heating  and hot water. They  
have asked for a letter  of apology and an explanation as to why he could not be paid the 
compensation offered, pending final resolution  of the complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He recommended that British Gas pay an 
additional £120 compensation, to reflect the delay in attending to the initial  claim;  the undue  
pressure to close the complaint; and the missed appointment.
Ref: DRN17317202Mr and Mrs F accepted the adjudicators assessment but British Gas did not. The complaint 
has therefore been referred  to me. British  Gas says it agreed  to waive  the excess  even 
though a repair was carried out. The fault wasnt apparent at the first visit and it didnt fail 
again until six weeks later. Theres no evidence that the first engineer  should have done  
anything different at the first visit. British  Gas offered to increase the compensation already 
offered by £50 but considers the amount recommended by the adjudicator  to be excessive.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F took out his policy to provide  prompt assistance in the event they were  left 
without heating or hot water. I can understand  their dissatisfaction therefore when they found 
themselves in that very situation and were told they would have to wait five days before an 
engineer could attend. 
British Gas is expected to prioritise  vulnerable consumers and there  are occasions when it 
cant provide the response that would  normally be expected for other consumers. However,  
this did mean that Mr and Mrs F were  without heating and hot water for around four days  in 
extremely cold weather. 
Mr and Mrs F suggest that the first engineer that attended should have been able to 
diagnose the problem with the boiler  and this would have meant the second breakdown and 
call out wouldnt have  been necessary. I can understand their concern about this and it 
doesnt appear that any attempt was made to find out what  had caused the original 
breakdown. However,  having said that and in the absence of any convincing  expert  
evidence, it is difficult to conclude that the engineer  should have known what the fault was 
and that a part was needed  on that first attendance,  given that the boiler was working when 
he arrived and he carried out a service. 
However, Mr and Mrs F were without a working boiler again and this was also for longer than 
should have been necessary, as British  Gas didnt attend the scheduled appointment on 25 
April 2018. I can also see that there  were  occasions where they were  pushed to agree to the 
complaint being  closed,  without a resolution  to all the issues. Mr and Mrs Fs boiler was also 
not serviced for 18 months. There is no evidence to suggest that this was in breach of any 
policy terms but again, I can understand their concern  that there was such a long gap and 
that it was serviced  only after it broke down.
I dont intend to ask British Gas to write to Mr and Mrs F with any further apology. Any such 
apology, given only because I have directed it to do so, will not be sincere. British  Gas has 
waived the excess  fee, which I consider to be reasonable. I consider this together  with the 
total compensation of £300  recommended by the adjudicator to be appropriate  having  had 
regard to all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN17317203my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay a total of 
£300 compensation (to include the £180  already offered before the complaint  came to us) for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by its handling of this matter.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1731720