K820x#14complaint
Miss S isnt happy  with the compensation offered  by Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  
(FICL) to settle her complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss S took out a PPI policy  alongside  a store card, reference ending  7468, in March  2003. 
She has now complained  the PPI was mis-sold. 
FICL has agreed to uphold her complaint but has said no compensation is due to be paid to 
her as she made claims on the policy which paid out more than she had paid for the costs  of 
the PPI.
Miss S said she paid more for the PPI than FICL had indicated and she brought her 
complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator said what FICL had done was fair and no compensation was due to be paid 
to Miss S.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
In this complaint  FICL isnt the business  that operated the store card and sold the PPI but it 
was the insurer  for the policy and it has accepted responsibility for the sale of the PPI. 
FICL has agreed to uphold Miss S complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold. So Im not looking 
into  how the PPI came  to be mis-sold, Im only considering  if what FICL has done to settle 
the complaint  is fair.
Miss S took out the card and PPI in March 2003 and it was active  until August 2003. During 
this time Miss S paid £31.82 in premiums for the PPI and FICL has worked  out this would 
have caused £28.43  of interest. So £60.25 was the total Miss S paid for the PPI on this card 
account.
However Miss S made claims on the PPI insurance to a total of £130.00. So this was more 
than she actually paid for the PPI costs. 
To put things right I would expect FICL to put Miss S as far as possible in the position  she 
wouldve been in if she hadnt taken out the PPI policy. But this would mean  that she 
wouldnt have been able to make the claims on the policy that she did. So it is fair that FICL  
can deduct the amount Miss S was paid for the claims from the compensation due for the 
mis-sold PPI.
As the claims came to more than Miss S actually  paid for the PPI there is no compensation 
due to be refunded  to Miss S for the costs of the PPI. It is fair that FICL can set the amount 
of the claims against the compensation due for the mis-sold policy.  And here that leaves 
nothing to be returned to Miss S.
Ref: DRN18162852Miss S has said she paid more for the PPI than the records FICL actually indicate.  But Ive 
seen nothing to show the amounts paid for PPI are more than what  the summary records  
from FICL  indicate. So Im not telling FICL to pay anything directly to Miss S.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think what Financial Insurance Company Limited has 
worked out as the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. As Miss S has received more in 
claims than she paid for the policy Im not telling Financial Insurance Company  Limited  to 
pay anything back to Miss S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1816285