K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
2003. Mr R says National Westminster Bank  Plc mis-sold him the MPPI.
background
I sent Mr R and NatWest my provisional  decision on 5 February  2019  explaining  why I 
wasnt intending to uphold Mr Rs complaint.  I said that before I made my final decision Id 
look at anything else anyone wanted  to give me  so long as I received it before 5 March 
2019.
Mr R and NatWest did not respond  with new points for me to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided that the MPPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive thought carefully  about  what Mr R has said about NatWest not making it clear the 
MPPI was optional, and that he only later (in 2014 as I understand matters) realised that 
he had it. I accept  this is possible.  However, I just dont think  there is enough evidence to 
say this is what most likely happened. Paperwork completed at the time in 2003 shows 
that Mr R signed  a separate application  form for the MPPI, on which  there was a section 
to complete (which  wasnt  completed) if Mr R didnt want  it. Mr R also signed a direct  
debit mandate for the MPPI. And overall  I think its most likely  that NatWest  did make  it 
clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the MPPI and that Mr R chose to take it  although 
I can understand why Mr R cant remember this.
Ive not seen any evidence that NatWest recommended the MPPI to Mr R so it didnt 
have to check  if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information 
he needed  to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information NatWest gave  Mr R about the MPPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the MPPI  so it looks like he wanted  this type 
of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover   so it could have 
been useful for him if something went  wrong.  I appreciate hes said he was entitled  to 
sickness and redundancy pay and that he had savings. However, the paperwork from 
2003 doesnt support that he did have savings  and Ive seen no other evidence 
supporting this. And if Mr R lost his job or couldnt  work, the MPPI couldve paid out 
irrespective of this, at what couldve been  a difficult time. It also looks like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI  would have  put him off 
taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN18602342Ive thought about everything Mr R has said, including  what  hes said about him not receiving 
the policy documentation. But, for the reasons explained above, Ive concluded  that Mr R 
most likely chose to take out the MPPI in 2003   and wouldve done so even  if NatWest  had 
provided better information. I also cant see that Mr R has since  suffered a claimable  event 
that he hasnt  claimed  for. So even if I accepted NatWest failed to provide the policy  
documentation (and Im not saying that I do accept this), I dont think this has caused Mr R to 
lose out. So for these  reasons, and the reasons explained above,  these points  dont change  
my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr R paid on his MPPI   and whether NatWest 
treated him unfairly.
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr Rs MPPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Rs commission was less than half the cost of the 
MPPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont 
think NatWest treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr R back any of the 
commission he paid for the MPPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019. 
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1860234