K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S and their daughter Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) shouldnt 
have returned  a cheque unpaid. 
background
Mr and Mrs S and their daughter Mrs B have a current account with HSBC.  In September 
2018, Mr S wrote  a cheque to a builder to pay for some home repairs.  But HSBC returned  
the cheque. In a letter,  it explained this was because the cheque  needed two signatures, but 
it only had one.
Mr S is unhappy because this is the first cheque in 14 years  that HSBC  has returned for this 
reason. HSBC has paid other cheques with only one signature in the past. He thinks  HSBC 
shouldve called him to avoid the embarrassment that hes experienced with his builder. 
HSBC said it had correctly returned  the cheque in line with the account mandate,  and its 
internal processes. But it apologised  to Mr S, Mrs S and Mrs B for any concern that it 
caused. 
As Mr S has been dealing  with this complaint with both HSBC  and our service throughout, 
for simplicity,  Ill refer only to him going forward in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, I dont uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain 
why.
It isnt in dispute that the account  mandate for Mr Ss account is that two parties need to sign 
a cheque. And in this instance  the cheque for Mr Ss builders only had one signature. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for HSBC to return the cheque  when it didnt match  the 
account mandate. 
I know Mr S has some  concerns  about  cheques that hes written in the past that have been 
processed by HSBC with only one signature.  But HSBC has explained  that it carries out 
random checks,  and so not all of Mr Ss cheques would have been reviewed on every 
occasion.  And ultimately, as Mr S wanted those other cheques paid, he has suffered no loss 
when HSBC has allowed  this to happen.  But Im satisfied  that, following its checks, HSBC 
returned this particular cheque as it should  have done. 
Mr S has said the returned cheque  caused  him embarrassment with his builders. He thinks  
HSBC couldve done more to contact him to let him know about the situation.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ss account  say that HSBC  can contact its customer  by 
telephone, email or letter. HSBC has confirmed that its usual process  is by letter.  I can see 
that HSBC wrote to Mr S to let him know that it wouldnt be paying  the cheque. While I 
appreciate Mr S thinks HSBC couldve done  more, I cant  say that HSBC did anything  wrong 
here.
And regardless of how HSBC contacted Mr S, I think the end result wouldve been the same.  
As the cheque had been sent away for processing, it wasnt possible for it to be returned to 
Mr Ss branch for a second  signature without some  form to delay in payment to Mr Ss 
Ref: DRN12650682builders. And I wouldnt expect Mr Ss branch to have asked the cheque  to be processed 
without the second signature because of its existing relationship  with Mr S.
I know Mr S feels that HSBC treated him unfairly. But given that HSBC returned  the cheque  
in line with the account mandate,  I cant say that it did anything wrong on this occasion. I can 
see it has offered its apologies to Mr S for any upset caused, and I think  this is enough  in the 
circumstances.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, Mrs S and 
Mrs B to accept or reject my decision by 25 April 2019.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1265068