K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about The Enterprise Fund  Limited, trading as Business Finance  Solutions 
(which Ill call BFS). He has a loan with BFS,  and says BFS failed to collect  his payments, 
asked him to pay more  than he owed, and then failed to investigate his complaint.
background 
Mr B took out the loan in 2014. He borrowed £2,500, payable over three years. In August 
2016, administration of the loan was transferred to BFS. Up to that point, Mr B had been 
making the loan payments by direct  debit.
In October  2016, Mr B received a text message from BFS saying he was behind with his 
payments. It turned out that his direct debit  payments hadnt  been collected since BFS had 
taken on the loan. Mr B was working away from home, so he agreed to make the payments 
hed missed when  he got back the following month.  He did so, and says BFS assured him 
future payments would be taken by direct debit.
Mr Bs next payment in December 2016 wasnt collected. Mr B was going to be working 
away again, so he says he agreed with BFS that it would collect both the December and 
January payments by direct debit  in January. Those  payments were made.
In May 2017, Mr B returned home after several months away.  He found  a letter from a debt 
collection agency asking  for payments to the loan. The balance on the letter  didnt include 
the payment he had made in January, and no payments had been made since  then. Mr B 
complained.
BFS said Mr Bs direct debit hadnt been set up properly in the first place, and this meant it 
hadnt collected his direct debits since it took over the loan in 2016. It also said it had 
corrected this, but it hadnt received  any payments since  January  2017. It apologised and 
said the loan was no longer with debt collectors, and it would amend Mr Bs credit file once 
he had paid the arrears.
Mr B got in touch with us. BFS then said it would reduce his remaining  loan balance  by 25% 
(£158.40) by way of apology for what had happened, leaving him with £475.22  to pay to 
clear the loan. Once Mr B had paid that, it would remove  any late payments  it had recorded  
on his credit file. Our investigator initially thought that was fair but, following further 
submissions from Mr B, he concluded that BFS should pay a total of £400 compensation, 
instead of the £158.40  it had offered.
BFS accepted that conclusion. It said that, if Mr B accepted it as well, it would either send 
him a cheque for £241.60 and reduce his loan balance  by £158.40, or deduct the full £400  
from the loan balance. It would also amend Mr Bs credit file once he had paid it the 
remaining loan balance.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators recommendation.  He said BFS hadnt investigated his 
complaint and had provided wrong information, and this was causing him ongoing distress 
and inconvenience.  He wanted £1,500 for that. He also pointed  to the mistakes BFS had 
made with the loan balance and said this meant it couldnt enforce the loan.
Ref: DRN14694002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payments for Mr Bs loan had been taken from his bank account without any problems until 
BFS took over administration  of it. As a result, the loan went  into arrears in 2016  and Mr B 
was chased for payment. BFS also then failed to sort things out and set up a direct debit 
properly, it didnt credit Mr Bs January 2017  payment  to his loan straight away,  and it got the 
loan balance  wrong a number of times.  
Im satisfied that BFS made  mistakes. I think BFS accepts that, given that it has offered to 
pay Mr B some  compensation  and to amend his credit file. I have to decide  whether that 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
I find nothing to indicate that BFS has added extra interest or charges to the loan as a result 
of not receiving payments. It has said no extra charges have been applied,  the documents 
Ive seen reflect that, and Mr B hasnt suggested otherwise. So I see no reason to conclude 
that there  is any financial loss here.
Nonetheless, I consider  that BFSs  mistakes  and its handling of this whole matter  caused Mr 
B a good  deal of upset, frustration, and inconvenience, and he should  fairly receive some 
compensation to reflect  that. But having  carefully considered what  Mr B has said about the 
impact on him of all of this, I think  his request for £1,500 is over-stated. I dont agree that 
BFS has tried to prevent this complaint from being resolved satisfactorily and, in all the 
circumstances, I share the investigators  view that £400 is fair. I also think that, in the light of 
all the confusion about the loan balance and payments, BFS has taken a reasonable 
approach in offering to amend Mr Bs credit  file. 
Mr B says BFS shouldnt  ask him for payment, because it wouldnt be able to enforce the 
debt if it took him to court. While  I take account of the law and relevant regulatory guidance 
in making my decision, I must ultimately decide  what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
BFS hasnt  taken Mr B to court, and its not for me to decide whether a debt is legally 
enforceable. Im satisfied  that Mr B hasnt repaid what  he agreed to pay under the loan 
agreement. So I consider  it reasonable for BFS to ask him for payment.
Mr B is entitled to receive clear and accurate information about what he owes, and I can see 
why he might have wanted  to be sure that BFS had the loan balance right before he 
resumed payments. I will require BFS to send him up-to-date details about that if he accepts 
my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Enterprise Fund  Limited, trading as Business Finance Solutions,  
has made a fair offer. In settlement  of this complaint, if Mr B accepts my decision, it should:
1)Pay Mr B £400 compensation. It may credit either the full £400, or £158.40 of it, to the 
loan. Mr B should tell us which  he prefers  if he accepts this decision.
Ref: DRN146940032)Provide Mr B with up-to-date and accurate details  of how much  is outstanding on the 
loan once any credit  at 1) above  has been made. 
3)If Mr B pays the remaining loan balance in full, amend his credit file so that it reflects  no 
arrears or missed  or late payments on the loan from July 2016 to one month  after the 
date 2) above  is done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1469400