K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that National House-Building Council (NHBC) wont carry out 
work to remedy issues with their windows  and doors  under their building warranty.
background
In December 2016 Mr and Mrs G reported to NHBC  concerning problems they had with their 
windows and internal and external doors. This was within the first two years of the warranty 
so the primary liability at that stage was the builders.  Some work had been done  to the 
windows but Mr and Mrs G were  unhappy with the quality of finish   of gapping  and sharp 
edges. The doors had excessive gaps  at the bottom.  NHBC initially carried out an 
investigation under  its resolution scheme and reported in April 2017.  This identified issues  
with the doors and windows and recommended action to be taken by the builders. 
The builders  declined to take any action but agreed  to supply replacement doors. NHBC 
agreed to take over dealing with the repairs. This took some time to organise,  and although  
the doors were  replaced the contractor couldnt deal with the windows. NHBC then indicated 
that it would  only be repairing  or replacing three  windows. Mr and Mrs G said they were told 
following the April 2017 report  that all the windows would be replaced. 
NHBC reviewed  the matter and agreed to pay Mr and Mrs G £300 compensation because  of 
the delay in informing them that the builders werent  going to do the work  and in organising  
the repairs. NHBC further said that the April 2017  report wasnt clear  as to which windows 
were affected so it carried out another visit in February 2018. The new report  identified only 
three windows that needed work  to be carried out - namely to replace the opening lights. 
These were  the study, lounge and rear right hand bedroom windows. It further identified 
issues with the rear right hand and front right hand  bedroom doors. That work required the 
refitting of the doors. The report also recommended finishing  all the doors  with Danish oil.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy as they said that the original report  had said that all windows 
were to be replaced. They were also unhappy  that ladders  werent used to inspect the 
upstairs windows, that the external utility door wasnt dealt with and with the testing for 
draughts carried out. NHBC  said that it was satisfied  with its report and that the other 
windows all complied with its requirements.
I issued an initial provisional decision.  Following a review of photographs  supplied by 
Mr and Mrs G (which had been disclosed to NHBC) I proposed to require NHBC to:
Carry out the repairs to the doors  and windows it had agreed
Inspect and adjust  the patio doors (from the living room) so they are draught  free
Carry out repairs to the beading/frames  of the patio  doors  (both sets) as shown in and 
identified in Mr and Mrs Gs photos.
Following that decision  NHBC  agreed to carry out a further inspection, particularly because  
of the issues raised by those photos which it had contended hadnt  been seen by its 
inspector. A further (third) inspection was carried out by NHBC.  
Ref: DRN16073602After that inspection, as well as the issues NHBC had already  identified in its previous 
inspection as needing repair (and that Ive bulleted above),  it set out the following further 
issues which it agreed to deal with:
Patio doors - sharp edges to the external corners of both sets of doors (view from rear 
external). Kitchen right side door right bottom, left side door right bottom; Lounge  right 
side door left top, left door right top.
First floor left bedroom window, right side opening light,  both top corners.
There were  gaps  between both sets of patio doors and the frames where paper could be 
inserted. This was mainly evident to the corners and around the locks to both set of 
doors
It proposed to remove the sharp  edges and to adjust the patio doors to make a weather tight 
seal. But it maintained  that the glazing beads  were found to be securely fitted.  It found  slight  
gaps of 0.5mm and misalignment but didnt  find any to be excessive or to require  any repair.
It said that some issues hadnt  been  reported to the builder under section 2 of the warranty, 
so could not be dealt with now.  These were the gaps to the mastic seal at the top of the patio 
doors, the holes to the corners of the doors, out of line hinge  and protection  tape showing.
A further  issue of the external utility room door had been noted under  another  investigation. I 
understand this has now been dealt with.
I then issued a further  provisional decision.  I still felt that the photos of the windows  
Mr and Mrs G sent in showed that they were in breach of NHBC requirements. So I 
maintained my view that NHBC  should  deal with the specific issues  of gapping shown in 
those photos.  I further said that, as the complaint  was generally about the poor quality  finish 
of the windows, the issues  of the protection tape showing, misaligned hinge and missing  
mastic all came under this and should  be dealt  with. The holes  to the corners of the doors I 
thought were a different issue and hadnt been  reported under part 2 of the warranty.
NHBC in response said it didnt agree with the part about the gapping around the doors and 
windows. It appreciated  that there  are photographs but photographs are not always accurate 
in their appearance.
It didnt think that a photographic view that could be distorted depending on how its taken 
can override a physical  assessment of the situation whereby measurements have been  
taken. It believes this to be an unusual concept  and unfair to take photographs as accurate 
and to disregard a measured investigation  that shows its standards  have been  met.
Mr and Mrs G had no further  comments to make. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
These were  my provisional findings:
Ref: DRN16073603excessive gapping around  windows and doors
My provisional decision noted  excessive gapping in the beading around the windows and 
doors. NHBC says, as a result of its further inspection  that there is no excessive  gapping, 
that its less than 0.5mm  so was within tolerance. Having looked again  at Mr and Mrs Gs 
photos (which NHBC had agreed  may be a problem) I cant square the report  with the 
gapping shown  in those photos, which has been  poorly filled with mastic. The gaps in those 
photos look to me to be much more than 0.5mm.  
As I said in my first provisional decision The relevant  NHBC requirements  which  I think  have 
been breached  are:
R3 All materials, products and building systems shall be suitable for their intended purpose
R4 All work shall be carried  out in a proper,  neat and workmanlike manner
I still think NHBC should deal with the issues of excessive  gapping  in joints shown in those 
photos. To be clear  NHBC should  deal with the defects it has agreed to deal with as 
identified in the second and third reports and the issues  which  appear in the photos 
Mr and Mrs G supplied. Those photos  are of:
1.Top left hand  corner patio door,  right hand side breakfast  area.
2.Top left hand  corner right hand  patio  door kitchen.
3    Outer bead joint to top left hand  corner of glass to right hand patio door kitchen.
4    Top right hand corner of patio door right,  kitchen.
5    Bottom corner of left hand sash to right hand  side window to office front elevation.
6    Bottom right hand corner of left hand  sash to office to front elevation.
7    Top left hand corner of left hand  patio  door breakfast side.
8    Top left hand corner to right hand patio door breakfast area.
9    Top left hand corner to left hand  sash front living room.
10  Bottom right hand corner  to fixed sash front living room.
11  Top  right hand corner of right hand sash second bedroom front.
other issues
NHBC wont deal with the following issues under section 2 of the warranty:
The gaps  to the mastic seal at the top of the patio doors.
The holes to the corners of the doors.
Out of line hinge.
 Protection tape showing.
Of those issues I was only previously  aware of the holes in the doors. Whilst I understand 
that Mr and Mrs G expected NHBC to carry out a comprehensive survey of the doors and 
windows, unfortunately  thats not how the warranty works. For a claim under section 2 (the 
first two years) any issue must  be reported  initially to the builder. The issue that NHBC 
agreed to consider was poor quality finish of all windows  gaps/sharp  edges  etc. The etc 
shows to me that it was looking at the poor quality finish including,  but not limited  to 
gaps/sharp edges.  In my view that covers  the missing mastic, the protective tape and the 
misaligned hinge which appear  to me to be straightforward issues  to resolve. 
Ref: DRN16073604But I dont think that covers the holes in the corners  of the patio doors. Mr G first advised  us 
of those in October  2018 as having just been discovered. Mr and Mrs G have advised us 
that the issue hadnt been reported to the builder  or to NHBC. And the section 2 period 
expired on 30 June 2018. So I dont  think the holes were related to the poor finish,  so NHBC 
doesnt have to deal with them under section 2. Mr and Mrs G could make a claim under 
section 3. I dont  want  to pre-empt  them  doing  that but I should warn  them  that the cover 
under section 3 is quite  different. It covers  certain  parts of the building  if there is physical 
damage to the home.
As Ive set out above the utility room door has been accepted under a different claim and I 
understand now dealt with.
compensation
NHBC has so far agreed to pay £300  compensation. This is for the delays caused  by having 
to do two inspections  and for not informing Mr and Mrs G that the builders werent carrying  
out the repairs. Ive noted that in respect  of the third inspection, NHBC did identify further  
issues. Indeed  I note that it now agrees  there are sharp edges around  the patio doors even 
though it said before there were no such sharp edges. I think  that NHBC should  pay 
Mr and Mrs G a further £100 for the extra inconvenience caused.
NHBC objects  to my relying on photographs  to determine this issue.  I should point out that I 
have considered and taken into account all the evidence put forward by both sides.  But 
whilst photos can be manipulated these ones  look perfectly clear  and not distorted to me. 
And the inspection report didnt  allege this was the case i.e. specifying and showing that the 
gaps in the photos were smaller  in reality than they appeared to be on film. To be clear the 
photos show excessive  gapping badly filled by mastic.  As I have  said Im satisfied that these 
images show breaches of NHBC requirements R3 and R4.
I had previously asked  NHBC to identify how the issues  shown in the photographs comply 
with its requirements and, if it alleges compliance with a British  standard  to advise us what 
that standard is. It hasnt done  so in my view and merely saying that the gaps were  not 
excessive without addressing the content  of those photographs wasnt  in my view sufficient. 
The report  also said they were of an acceptable appearance which  again  in my view doesnt 
square with Mr and Mrs Gs photos. And whilst it didnt  identify  which beads were  concerned  
its first report referred to misaligned beads  some of which had been covered in mastic. So I 
have here three reports all of which in part say different things. My view is that NHBC hasnt 
shown that the appearance and workmanship to the window beading in Mr and Mrs Gs 
photos comply with its requirements as set out. So I think  that NHBC should  deal with 
repairs to the doors and windows, as specifically identified in Mr and Mrs Gs photos.
NHBC hasnt commented  on any other  issues and Mr and Mrs G made no comment  on my 
provisional findings. So I remain satisfied by what I said. Therefore, my provisional  findings 
in my second provisional decision,  as set out above, remain  unchanged  and form part of 
this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require National House-Building Council to:
Carry out the repairs to the doors  and windows it had agreed  in its second and third 
inspections.
Ref: DRN16073605Resolve the gaps in the mastic  over the patio doors,  the out of line hinge and the parts  
where the protective tape is showing.
Carry out repairs to the beading/frames  of the patio  doors  (both sets) and the windows 
as shown in and identified in Mr and Mrs Gs photos and as fully detailed  above and 
numbered 1-11.
Pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £400  compensation. If it has paid any part of that, it should 
pay the balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1607360