K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Mars Capital Finance Limited  gave her permission to let her residential  
property. But she says it later appointed  receivers to manage the property without  telling her 
that it had revoked its permission to let. She also considers that Mars should  go to court if it 
wishes to take possession of the property.
background
Mrs L has a mortgage  originally taken out with another lender  and transferred  to Mars in 
2015. The secured property appears to have been  rented out for some  years.  
Mars appointed  Law of Property  Act receivers to manage the property on behalf of Mrs L. It 
said there were two breaches of the agreement:  Mrs L was letting the property without its 
consent and the mortgage was in arrears.  Mars agreed to tell the receivers  not to take any 
action while  we considered her previous  complaint. But following  the final decision being 
issued on the previous  complaint it reinstructed  the receivers.
Mrs L considers that Mars has appointed receivers unfairly because she took out a 
residential mortgage and she had previously  been given indefinite consent to let the property 
by Mars. She later added  that Mars accepted an arrangement to repay  the arrears but then 
went back on that and that it was unfairly insisting that she redeem the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L didnt accept what  the investigator said. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
consent to let and appointment of receivers
The ombudsman in the previous decision has already made the finding  that having noted  
the property was being rented out without its consent, Im also satisfied  Mars was entitled to 
decide to appoint Receivers.  So, while the complaint  being  brought  here is different to the 
one that was considered previously  an ombudsman has already considered whether it was 
fair to appoint receivers despite the property originally being  granted  on a residential basis.  
Having considered that point the ombudsman made the decision that the appointment of the 
receivers was fair and reasonable and the property was being let without Mars consent.  I 
dont see how I can fairly  reach  a different  conclusion here bearing in mind  the property  has 
been let for some  time.  So Mars is entitled to appoint receivers.  
Mrs L says that previous  lenders agreed  that she could  let the property indefinitely. I accept 
that the previous lenders  knew that Mrs L was letting the property. I also accept that they 
may have  decided not to take any action  in respect of that. But it doesnt  follow  that they 
formally gave Mrs L consent  to let the property  indefinitely. And that isnt supported  by the 
evidence we have.  Im not persuaded that Mars has gone against what the previous lenders 
had agreed. 
As Ive found that the property was being let without Mars consent, it follows that Mrs L was 
in breach of the mortgage conditions.  I think that alone was a legitimate  reason to appoint 
receivers in the circumstances  of the case.  But particularly so against a background of a 
Ref: DRN12404822history of arrears on the account. I dont consider that Mars has acted unfairly  or that it is 
required to go to court to take possession of the property.
The receivers act as agent for Mrs L. Mars isnt responsible for the receivers  actions. 
arrangements to pay
Looking at the evidence we have,  I cant see that Mars agreed to accept  Mrs Ls offer to 
repay the arrears.  It has given us evidence to show that it gathered  information about  Mrs 
Ls income and expenditure and after considering that information declined Mrs Ls proposal.  
This is in line with the steps a reasonable lender should take.  Based on the information 
available to Mars I consider this was a fair and reasonable decision.
Mars did say that because the mortgage is in arrears the full balance is due and payable. 
This reflects that Mrs L is in breach of the mortgage  terms.  But the evidence I have shows 
that it was prepared to come to a sustainable  arrangement with Mrs L to address the arrears. 
There may have been some confusion about that, but I dont consider that was Mars fault.
I note that Mars has agreed  to disinstruct the receivers  providing  that the arrears, receivers  
and solicitors costs are paid in full and the contractual  monthly  payment is made by direct  
debit in future. It said it would instruct receivers again if two monthly payments were missed  
(even if the arrears were later cleared) and the mortgage would need to be redeemed  by 24 
October 2022 at the latest. Mrs L should contact Mars directly if she wishes to discuss  that 
arrangement or if she wishes to complain about  it or any other matters that werent  part of 
this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1240482