K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about the advice he received in 1996 to transfer his deferred  benefits 
in his former employers final salary  pension scheme (the Scheme) to a section 32 policy 
with Scottish Mutual (now Phoenix  Life). 
The advice was originally  given by Godwins Limited.  Aon Consulting  Limited  is now 
responsible for the advice given by Godwins.
background
On 15 February 1996 Mr R completed  a buy-out application form for his deferred  pension 
benefits. The funds  were transferred to Scottish Mutual in April 1996.  This application was 
completed following  a group  presentation and an individual  meeting.
Mr R had been a member of his employers pension scheme and accumulated about 18 
years of pensionable service. His guaranteed  minimum  pension (GMP) at the date of leaving 
was £1,531.92 a year. This was to be revalued at a fixed rate of revaluation of 7% a year.
Based on the revaluations he had a GMP of £8,896.68 a year of which £3,370.12 will 
increase by 3% a year once in payment.
If Mr R had remained in the Scheme, benefits were  available  without  reduction  from age 60.
On 16 April 1996, Scottish Mutual  acknowledged receipt of the transfer value  of £31,138.10. 
62% of the monies were  invested in the With Profits Series 3 fund and 38% was invested  
into a Managed 95% Guarantee fund.  In March 2001 Mr R switched the Managed 95% 
Guarantee fund into a Growth fund, which appeared to represent an increase  in risk for his 
investment strategy.
Aon reviewed the advice  in 1997. There was no individual  advice report and no evidence  to 
show early retirement was discussed. Illustrations  and critical yields were calculated to age 
65, although retirement was available from age 60 without reduction.  There  was no evidence  
annuity rates  and the way they could fluctuate  were discussed with Mr R. Aon said their 
calculations in 1997 indicated there was no loss.
Mr R complained to Aon in July 2017  about  the advice he was given in 1996  to transfer as 
he believed  former  colleagues were retiring on better benefits than him. 
Aon did not uphold the complaint. They also said it had not been  made  within the relevant 
time limits. One of my colleagues  issued a decision that the complaint  had been  made  in 
time and we could  consider the complaint.
One of our adjudicators spoke with Mr R. He understood  Mr R said the motivation of the 
complaint was a colleague who had received a cash lump sum.  Mr R also informed the 
adjudicator that he had a retirement income  target of around £25,000 a year and he only had 
another pension  which  was an occupational pension plan part funded via his current  
employer.
Mr R objected to the failure of the advice process  as an attitude  to risk assessment wasnt  
completed and he lost the opportunity  to retire earlier than 65.
Ref: DRN12372422I issued my provisional decision on 5 May 2020.  I concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld. I accepted there was limited evidence about what happened in 1996.  However,  there 
were concerns about information provided by Godwins.
Mr Rs benefits provided a virtually guaranteed  pension  available to him from age 60. It 
appeared to me the illustrations prepared for him indicated the pension would be available  
from age 65. I had only seen part of the key features schedule relating to the GMP benefits. 
It wasnt clear  to me how the projected benefits compared to the benefits  available to Mr R at 
age 60 from the Scheme.
The funds for the GMP were invested in the with-profits fund.  The funds used to provide 
excess benefits were invested  in a guaranteed fund. I had not seen any evidence  to show  
Mr Rs attitude to investment risk was discussed at the time. I noted there were concerns 
about the selection of funds when the advice was reviewed. The particular funds selected 
indicated to me Mr R was taking a lower risk approach to investing.
I explained my view that a lower  risk approach to investing was not consistent  with advice to 
transfer. The benefits in the Scheme were virtually  guaranteed.  Although  the GMP was 
guaranteed after the transfer,  it was also guaranteed in the Scheme. Unless Mr R was 
prepared to accept  investment  risk, including fluctuations in annuity rates, I thought  the 
advice appeared unsuitable.
The comparison of benefits also appeared to have been made to age 65 This was wrong, as 
Mr R was able to take unreduced benefits from age 60. Any comparisons should  have been 
made to age 60.
Mr R was transferring pension benefits he had accrued over 18 years. This was all of his 
pension benefits  at the time. It was also likely to be a significant part of his pension benefits 
when he retired. It therefore represented a significant risk he could lose a substantial part of 
his pension.
In summary,  I was not satisfied Mr R was given sufficient information  to allow  him to make 
an informed decision to transfer his benefits from the Scheme; the information he was given 
appeared to have been calculated using the wrong  retirement age of 65; the advice 
appeared to have been unsuitable  for him, as he did not appear to have wanted  much risk 
and I was not persuaded he could afford to take those risks. 
Aon replied  to my provisional decision.  They  said:
A full copy of the review carried out by Aon was provided.
The critical yield was recalculated to age 60 as part of the review and found to be 
within acceptable levels. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
the advice given to Mr R was unsuitable  for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN12372423In summary,  I am not satisfied Mr R was given  sufficient information to allow  him to make an 
informed decision to transfer his benefits  from the Scheme; the information he was given 
appears to have been calculated using the wrong  retirement age of 65; the advice appears 
to have been unsuitable for him, as he did not appear to have wanted  much risk and I am 
not persuaded he could  afford  to take those risks.  
Although Aon has said the critical yield was recalculated and found  to be within  acceptable 
levels, I have not seen details of the calculations. The transfer of the pension benefits 
represented a significant risk for Mr R who I have found was only prepared to accept a low 
degree of risk.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in if he had 
received suitable  advice.
Aon must undertake a redress  calculation in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  carried out as at the date of my final decision; using the most recent 
financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision. 
Aon may wish to contact  the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  
Mr R would have been able to take a tax-free cash sum from the occupational scheme, 25% 
of the future loss would  be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint.  
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Ref: DRN12372424determination and money award : I require Aon Consulting  Limited  to pay Mr R 
compensation as set out above,  up to a maximum of £150,000. 
Simple interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% a year from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement.
recommendation: If fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that Aon pays 
Mr R the balance. I further recommend simple interest is added to this balance at the rate of 
8% a year from the date of my decision to the date of settlement.
If Mr R accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on Aon. My recommendation 
is not binding  on Aon. 
Its unlikely that Mr R can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing  to him after the money award has been  paid. Mr R may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1237242