K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  National  Westminster  Bank Plc didnt  tell them  they could change 
to a new mortgage product.
background 
Mr and Mrs R were in financial difficulty.  They were on NatWests standard variable rate 
(SVR) and feel NatWest  should have given them the option to change onto a lower  interest  
rate mortgage as this could have helped them.
In her first view the investigator  referred  to Mr Rs call with NatWest in February  2017.  In 
NatWests notes of this call it said Mr R called  to make a payment towards the mortgage to 
clear the arrears. He explained the reason for the arrears was because he had sold his 
shares in a previous business and received  less than their worth. He said that he had 
pursued legal action and spent a significant  amount of money in legal fees, which  affected 
his finances. The notes went on to say he told NatWest that he had applied  for additional 
borrowing to consolidate  his debts but this application had been  declined. He said he had cut 
back on his outgoings  and put the house on the market so he would be able to clear the 
arrears. He also said he had been  offered a job so would  be able to maintain the mortgage 
payments going  forward. The notes say he was advised of financial advice he could seek,  if 
needed.
In her first view the investigator  didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. The investigator 
said she would expect  a bank to treat Mr and Mrs R fairly if it had been made aware they 
were struggling financially  or couldnt meet the monthly mortgage payments. But she didnt 
think NatWest acted  unfairly by not proactively offering to change  their mortgage to a new 
product when it spoke  with them  in February 2017. As the purpose of the call was to address 
the arrears balance on the account, she didnt think the collections agent was unreasonable  
not to suggest  possible  changes they could make to their mortgage  product. She felt had 
they wanted to make  a change, they couldve requested this, or discussed it further with the 
advisor. She also thought switching to a new product when they were  looking to sell wouldnt 
have been right for them because if they had repaid  the mortgage during the term of the 
fixed rate, such as by selling the property, they wouldve incurred an early repayment  
charge.
Mr R disagreed. He said he did ask NatWest if there was anything it could do to help with his 
repayments but was unsure of the actual dates. He felt that the focus  had been on the wrong  
call. He was adamant that during one conversation he asked if there was anything  that could 
be done to reduce the payments (e.g. reducing the interest rate).  He said he also asked  
about the possibility of extending the mortgage to reduce  repayments,  additional borrowing 
and putting a second charge on the property.
The investigator issued  a second  view.  In it she said NatWests records  show Mr R spoke 
with it about additional borrowing and his mortgage on 26 September  2016  and 
3 October 2016. When he contacted NatWest in September 2016 he asked for a loan to 
consolidate debt on his credit cards. He explained  that he had between £60,000-£70,000  
worth of debt on credit  cards  due to the closure  of his previous business.  He said his 
property was up for sale and he was comfortable  with his mortgage  payments but was 
struggling with his loan and credit  card payments. The agent informed him that his loan 
request had declined due to affordability. However he would refer the matter  to another team 
to see if there was anything else that could be done.
Ref: DRN16192912Mr R called NatWest on 3 October  2016  as he hadn't heard anything  back.  He explained  to 
the advisor he was really  struggling. He said that he may want to change  the interest rate on 
his mortgage but wanted to look at additional  borrowing first before tying himself into a fixed 
rate. He asked for some advice as the debt was having a large effect on his day to day life. 
The agent  booked  him an appointment with a mortgage advisor for 6 October 2016 and 
chased the team that was meant  to have called Mr R back.
The investigator thought NatWest hadnt acted unfairly. When he called NatWest in 
September 2016 he said that he was comfortable  with the mortgage payments. So she didn't 
think it was unreasonable for the agent  not to discuss possible changes  they could make  to 
their mortgage. When Mr R called back in October 2016, he talked to the agent about 
possibly changing  his mortgage  and for advice. The agent arranged  for him to speak with a 
mortgage advisor, which the investigator  thought was reasonable and would've  given  him 
the opportunity  to explore  the options available.  
NatWest have no records of the appointment or discussing the mortgage  with him again until 
February 2017.
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He is adamant that the 6 October  call with the 
mortgage adviser didnt go ahead.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said I was sorry to hear about the financial difficulties 
Mr and Mrs R have faced in recent years. And that I could understand their frustration that 
they didnt switch to a new product on their mortgage a couple of years  earlier.
I explained when  a consumer tells a business that they are struggling financially then we 
expect the business to respond positively and sympathetically.  What  this means in practice 
varies from case  to case. 
I said I had looked  at the call notes provided by NatWest. Having done so, I thought it was 
clear that Mr R did ask for an appointment  with a mortgage adviser as it says in the call 
notes dated 3 October 2016: Customer did also ask me to book in an app[ointmen]t with 
mortgage advisor as he was worried  he would  not get his call back.
I didnt think Mr and Mrs R ever received either a call from the specialist lending team or the 
appointment despite their request. I thought this was unfair.
Having looked  at the call notes further, however, I was not satisfied at the time of the 
provisional decision that had they had the appointment  they would have switched to a new 
product. This was because Mr R expressed concern about tying  himself into a fixed rate 
product and said he was looking  to sell the house.
I also thought  that when  Mr and Mrs R didnt receive  the call from the mortgage adviser they 
should have chased this up. I thought they probably didnt because they were still trying  to 
work out what they wanted to do.
I thought, however, it would be reasonable for NatWest  to pay Mr and Mrs R some 
compensation for failing  to provide the help of a mortgage adviser when they had requested 
it. I thought  it should pay them £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN16192913responses to my provisional  decision
NatWest agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs R did not. Mr R said that had he received the advice he requested  from a 
mortgage adviser he would have been  put on a fixed rate mortgage and saved £500  a 
month. He would therefore not have put his house on the market  and would have avoided an 
individual voluntary agreement. As he was ignored  he assumed he had been  rejected. He 
believes he would have  saved £15,000 if the mortgage had been switched to a different rate 
and he and Mrs R would  have endured  less stress  and inconvenience. He doesnt  think  the 
£100 I suggested is reasonable, measured  or proportional for Nat West failing to provide the 
help of a mortgage adviser  when requested. He also questions why NatWest deliberately 
ignored the earlier call information. He does  not believe that NatWest has acted  fairly  in this 
matter, it initially avoided  answering his complaint perhaps because  it also believes it was 
originally at fault by its lack of duty of care.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Rs strength of feelings on this complaint. I have much sympathy for him. I 
am sorry to disappoint him and Mrs R but nothing  he has said has persuaded me that I 
should alter the findings in my provisional decision.
I have looked  again at the call notes. I am satisfied that Mr R requested a call from a 
mortgage adviser and that this didnt happen.  I am also satisfied that he would have known it 
didnt happen.  He says as he was ignored he assumed he had been rejected. I dont think  
this was a reasonable conclusion to draw.  From the call notes I can see that Mr R had 
chased NatWest  before  for falling to make calls. I therefore dont think  he would assume if 
he didnt receive  a call he had been  rejected. I think it is more likely he didnt pursue a 
conversation with a mortgage adviser  because  he wasnt  sure what  he wanted to do and had 
a lot of things on his mind.  I dont think it would be fair to hold NatWest  responsible  for either  
of these things.  And as I said in my provisional decision Im not satisfied if he had spoken to 
a mortgage adviser  that he and Mrs R would have switched products.
Overall I think  it is fair that NatWest should  pay Mr and Mrs R £100 for its error.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs R £100 for the distress  and inconvenience caused to them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1619291