K822xcomplaint
Mr and Ms W complain  Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) caused delays to their re-
mortgage application  and completion   in January 2019 causing them  financial  loss. 
Theyve also said Nationwide failed to pay them the full redress  it offered to resolve  the 
complaint. And the situation has caused  them a great deal of trouble  and upset. 
background 
Mr and Ms W held a mortgage with a different  provider on a two year fixed rate of 1.97%. On 
1 January 2019, this rate was due to change to a standard variable rate (SVR) of 4.19%. 
So the repayments were going to increase by around £350. 
Mr and Ms W applied  to re-mortgage their property  with Nationwide  around December 2018. 
The mortgage they applied for was for £320,405  plus fees on a fixed  rate of 1.69% for 
24 months after which it reverted to an SVR. The term of the mortgage was 29 years. And 
the agreed monthly repayments were around  £1,168. Nationwide sent the mortgage offer on 
5 December 2019 confirming these details.  
As the mortgage  offer didnt include Mr Ws middle  name, Nationwide  said it needed to 
re-offer the mortgage. Another mortgage offer was issued on 2 January 2019 but this had 
the incorrect interest rate. So a third offer was sent on 3 January 2019.  
The initial mortgage  offer from December 2018 included a term which  said if there was a 
shortfall of no more than £500 on completion between the amount of the loan and the 
amount needed  to redeem the current mortgage,  the solicitor  may request an additional 
amount of £500  to ensure  the completion goes ahead without the need for a revised offer.  
The third mortgage  offer didnt mention this term. On 6 January 2019, Mr and Ms W have 
said they got in touch  with Nationwide to let it know there would be a shortfall  of £500. And 
Nationwide said they would need to go through the application process  again.  In order to 
avoid any further  delays, Mr and Ms W used their savings to cover  the shortfall  instead. 
The first mortgage offer said the assumed mortgage start date was 1 January 2019. But the 
mortgage actually  completed on 7 January 2019.
Mr and Ms W initially complained because they lost out due to the delays. Nationwide  
agreed to pay £300 as compensation  for the distress and inconvenience theyd been 
through and 8% interest  on the £500 they had to pay towards the shortfall over the two year 
fixed rate period. But Mr and Ms W have said Nationwide  also agreed at the same  time to 
reimburse them for the time they had to pay a higher  rate of interest to their previous 
mortgage provider  as it had switched to the SVR. Nationwide disagreed itd made this offer 
so Mr and Ms W brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr and Ms Ws complaint as he thought  it was more likely 
Nationwide did offer what Mr and Ms W had said. But he thought Nationwide had fairly  
settled all of the other  parts of the complaint Mr and Ms W had raised. Nationwide  agreed 
with our investigators assessment and offered to settle the complaint in the way the 
investigator had recommended. But Mr and Ms W didnt agree as they didnt think  it 
compensated them for the further stress  theyve  been  put through  as a result  of having to 
raise their complaint. So the complaints was passed  to me to reach a decision.
Ref: DRN17661952my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2019.  I explained  I thought the 
only issue outstanding  for me to consider was whether  Nationwide  needed to do anything to 
further compensate  Mr and Ms W for the distress and inconvenience  theyd been through 
since its initial offer to resolve  things was made. That was because theyd already accepted 
the offer from Nationwide for having to use their savings to fully redeem their previous 
mortgage and for the initial delays they experienced due to the multiple offers  Nationwide 
issued. But I thought the remaining part of the complaint should be upheld  in summary 
because:
From  looking through the complaint handlers  call notes,  I thought shed agreed to 
reimburse Mr and Ms W for the difference in the amount paid when they were put on a 
higher rate of interest with their previous provider due to the delay caused  by 
Nationwide. And I thought  Mr and Ms W gave Nationwide evidence of this as requested.
Although Nationwide didnt have a recording of the call, I thought  it shouldve  been clear 
from the contact notes that this offer had been  made. And if Nationwide had checked 
through these  details,  Mr and Ms W wouldnt have needed to raise  a further complaint. 
I didnt think the offer Nationwide had made to compensate Mr and Ms W for the delays 
to the mortgage  made up for the frustration and stress  they mustve  felt by not feeling 
listened to. And I thought theyd been inconvenienced further by Nationwides  actions. 
But I didnt think Nationwide needed to refund the mortgage arrangement  fee Mr and Ms W 
had paid. This was because  it carried  out the service theyd paid for and itd already 
compensated them for the financial loss and trouble  and upset theyd  experienced. 
So overall, I thought Nationwide  should  pay Mr and Ms W a further £150 as reasonable 
compensation for what theyd been through. And I thought it should reimburse them  the 
difference in interest while they were  on the standard variable rate with the previous provider 
and the rate they wouldve paid Nationwide between  1 January 2019 and 7 January 2019 
plus 8% simple interest on this amount. 
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. 
Nationwide let us know it accepted my provisional  decision. Mr and Ms W said they were 
happy to proceed  but didnt say whether they agreed or disagreed with my findings. And they 
said in summary:
The multiple mortgage offers sent by Nationwide werent  sent to them  but were 
instead sent to the conveyancer appointed  by Nationwide.  So they didnt realise the 
original mortgage  offer was no longer valid. 
When it was clear  the sale of the property wouldnt  be completed as agreed, they had 
to act as an intermediary between Nationwide and the conveyancer to sort things out.
They were given  wrong advice by Nationwide  as it was unable to tell them which  
mortgage offer was valid until after they complained.
Ref: DRN17661953my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  about  what  both sides 
have said in response to my provisional  decision.  And I still think this complaint should  be 
upheld. 
I understand Mr and Ms W went through a difficult time because of the problems caused  by 
Nationwide. And I accept theyve said they didnt know what was happening   because  
Nationwide didnt always communicate with them directly. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision and above, Nationwide initially agreed to compensate them  for the 
delays and inconvenience caused  by multiple  mortgage offers  being  submitted. And from 
what Ive seen on this case, Mr and Ms W already accepted the offer made. I can also see 
Nationwide has agreed to reimburse  them  for the financial  loss they wouldve experienced 
due to having to pay a higher rate of interest  with the previous mortgage provider. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Ms W have been  caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience in this case, considering the amount of time they were put in this position  for, 
I think the offer Nationwide made  to compensate them  for this part of the complaint is fair in 
the circumstances. 
Overall, having looked  at the responses Ive received, I havent changed my conclusions  set 
out in my provisional  decision. So for the reasons explained above and in my provisional 
decision, I uphold  Mr and Ms Ws complaint and direct Nationwide  to put things right by 
doing what Ive said below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and 
order Nationwide Building Society to:
pay Mr and Ms W a further £150 compensation;
reimburse them the difference in interest  while they were on the standard variable rate 
with the previous provider and the rate they wouldve paid Nationwide  between  
1 January 2019 and 7 January 2019
it should also pay 8% simple interest  on this reimbursed amount  from the date the 
payment was made until the date of settlement
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Ms W a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1766195