K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance to him in 2001. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr J disagreed with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this case.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr J, but I havent  upheld his complaint.  Ill explain why below. 
Mr J applied for PPI at the same time as he applied for his Amex card. Ive had the 
opportunity of seeing that document, so I can be relatively  confident about what  Mr J would  
have seen when  the policy was sold. As this was a postal sale, I think Mr J would have  been  
able to consider  the application form in his own time and at his own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  it would  have been clear  to Mr J that the PPI was 
optional and he didnt  have to buy it if he didnt want it. Ive looked at the application form 
and I can see that for PPI to be added to Mr Js account, he needed to select a box. That 
box has been selected. I think it would have been reasonably clear to Mr J that he could 
have refused PPI if he wanted to. 
The evidence doesnt suggest that Amex advised Mr J. But it still had to make  sure he had 
enough information about the cover so he could  decide for himself whether it was a good fit 
for his needs. That information had to be clear,  fair and not misleading. 
From what  I can see on the application  form, I think the information about PPI could have 
been clearer, particularly  in relation to cost. So the question  for me now is whether  Mr J 
would have changed his mind if Amex  had told him everything it should  have done about the 
cover. To help me decide what hes likely  to have done, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Ive also considered what we know  about his circumstances  at the 
time. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a PPI claim, 5% of Mr Js balance  would have been 
covered for up to 24 months if he lost his job of if he was too unwell to work.  Mr J told us that 
hed have got less than three months sick pay from his employer. The PPI would have lasted 
for longer than his pay from work. 
Mr J told us that he had savings of between three and six months worth of his salary that he 
could have used  to repay his card if he was out of work. But I think the PPI would have still 
lasted for longer than his savings and sick pay combined. And in any event,  with a PPI 
policy, Mr J would have been able to use his savings on his other essential expenditure at 
what would  have no doubt been  a stressful  time for him if he was out of work. 
Ref: DRN15969442Mr J told us he was in good health  when  he bought  PPI. So I dont think hed have  been  
affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything  
unusual about  his employment  circumstances  that would have stopped  him from being able 
to make a successful claim if he needed to.
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr J probably chose to buy this PPI policy  at the time 
 so it looks as though  he wanted this type of cover. Looking at his circumstances, I can see 
how cover  could have  been helpful to him if he was out of work. With all of that in mind,  I 
dont think he would  have  acted differently if hed been given more or better information 
about the PPI. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr J paid on his PPI  and whether Amex  treated  
him unfairly.  
Amex has told us that the commission for Mr Js PPI was less than half of what he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how Amex  has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Js commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
Amex treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr J back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I havent upheld  the complaint and I dont require American Express Services Europe 
Limited to take any further action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1596944