K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains about advice he received from Mr S. He says that following advice from
Mr S  on behalf of Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd (Wealthmasters)   he 
withdrew £22,220.05 from a collective investment account he had and invested £20,000 in 
Green Oil. The Green Oil investment is now illiquid and Mr P says the advice he was given 
was unsuitable.  Mr P thinks Wealthmasters is responsible for his losses.
Background
In 2008 Mr P became a client  of Mr S then own regulated business and on 29 May 2008  
on Mr S recommendation   he took out a collective investment account. This account  was 
closed in 2012 to fund the Green Oil investment  that is the subject of this complaint.
Later in 2008  Mr S regulated firm merged with Wealthmasters and Mr P became a client of 
Wealthmasters. Mr S continued to be Mr Ps adviser, only now as a registered individual  of 
Wealthmasters.
Wealthmasters was appointed as the adviser in respect of the relevant collective investment 
account.
Over the next few years Mr S held regular meetings with Mr P, these focused on reviewing 
Mr Ps investments. There  are numerous instances  of documented regulated  advice, 
including reviews of how the collective investment account was invested  meetings seem to 
have taken place  at least annually.
In January 2011, the whole of the collective investment  account  was switched into cash.
In the most recent documented financial review before  the Green Oil investment was made,
Mr Ps circumstances were recorded  as follows:
Annual salary - £15,000
Main residence - £155,000
Current account - £13,000
ISA - £12,152
Collective investment account - £22,262
Structured product  - £11,000  (ending in 2016)
It seems  there had been discussions about  what Mr P should do with his investments at the 
end of 2011. Mr P says that Mr S recommended  that he close  the collective investment 
account with Green  Oil in mind as a potential  investment (when this was initially  discussed)  
and, later, advised  him to use the available funds to invest in Green Oil.
On 14 December 2011, Mr S sent information about a number of unregulated investments, 
including Green  Oil to Mr P. The footer of the cover letter refers  to this being from Mr S 
unregulated business. The letter says:
Following our recent meeting you have  expressed  an interest in Alternative 
Investments, please therefore find provided  our guide to this area for your perusal. I 
have also enclosed details of several schemes  [sic] for your personal consideration 
and to allow you the opportunity to review Due Diligence carried out by [name  of 
Ref: DRN14238052third-party company]  and to facilitate your own research and Due Diligence into these 
Alternative Investment  Opportunities.
The footer of the letter  explains that:
This guide is purely for information purposes  and should not be used or relied upon 
for investment decisions. [Name of Mr S unregulated business] does not provide 
advice in connection with the suitability of alternative  investments or any other type of 
investment. Alternative  Investments are not currently regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority and are therefore not covered by the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme or the Financial  Ombudsman Service.
On 14 February 2012, Mr P signed the disinvestment application for his collective investment
Account, in effect  closing the account (the monies  from which were subsequently used to 
invest in Green Oil). 
Mr P says Mr S advised him to do this and then to use that money to invest  in Green Oil 
and, that Mr S filled the forms  in for him so all he had to do was sign them.
On 16 February 2012, the product provider confirmed that it had closed Mr Ps collective
investment account,  the letter said:
We have closed your investment as requested. Unless we need any additional  
information from you, the payment will be sent or invested in line with your 
instructions, within  two weeks of the date of this letter.
If you have any questions  about this letter, please  contact  your financial adviser to 
whom a copy has been made available. However, should you need to contact us, 
please call our Helpdesk on the number shown.
On 21 February 2012, Mr P signed the application  form to invest  £20,000 in Green Oil.
Mr P complained to Wealthmasters.  I have read and considered his complaint in its entirety.
In summary,  he said:
Mr S advised him to take his money  out of his collective investment account to invest  
in Green  Oil. That recommendation was unsuitable. Mr S did not carry out sufficient  
due diligence  on the Green  Oil investment and the investment and its risks were not 
properly explained.
He believed Mr S had been acting  on behalf  of Wealthmasters. However,  he has 
since been told that Mr S also had an unregulated business. No distinction between 
the two had ever been made  to him. And there were  clear conflicts of interest  he was 
not told about.
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and concluded that Mr Ps complaint was not 
one this service could consider. 
What Mr P, with the help of a representative,  said:
Mr S recommended  that he withdraw  money from his collective investment account  
with Green Oil mentioned  as a possible investment.
Ref: DRN14238053He would never have known  about Green Oil but for Mr S  who highlighted the 
potential returns and opportunities from making  the investment.
It was never mentioned during  these discussions that Mr S was not acting as his 
adviser or for Wealthmasters  he always thought Mr S was acting as his adviser and 
for Wealthmasters.
Mr S did not tell him that Green Oil was high risk or that it was unregulated.
There is no way he could have  known the difference between regulated and non-
regulated investments  and/or advice  he trusted Mr S to give him good advice as he 
has little understanding of these areas.
The loss of £20,000 is considerable to him.
He feels he was mis-led by Mr S  a man who he trusted, and thought was an honest 
and competent  adviser.
He believes Mr S was acting on behalf  of Wealthmasters at all times when providing 
advice  and, even if he was not, he certainly undertook  the activity  of arranging 
deals in investments,  in that he [as a registered individual of Wealthmasters] made  
the introduction  to his unregulated firm with a view to transactions  in investments.
In support of this Mr P submitted that:
Article 25 of the RAO says:
Arranging deals  in investments
25. (1) Making arrangements for another person  (whether as principal or agent) to 
buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which  is
(a)a security,
(b)a contractually based investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article,
is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying, selling,  subscribing for or underwriting investments falling 
paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal  or agent) is also a specified kind of 
activity.
The FCA has issued guidance on Article  25(2) in its Perimeter Guidance (PERG). PERG
2.7.7B says:
The activity of making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments  is 
concerned with arrangements of an ongoing nature  whose purpose is to facilitate the 
entering into of transactions by other parties
It is accepted that Mr S promoted  Green Oil.
And
If that is accepted,  he must have  been doing  so in his capacity as an IFA for
Ref: DRN14238054Wealthmasters, otherwise such a promotion/advice is contrary to Section 19 
of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA) which  states that a 
person must not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or purport to do so, 
unless he is an authorised or exempt  person. This is referred  to as the 
general prohibition  and the carrying on a regulated activity in breach of the 
general prohibition  is a criminal offence  and may result in certain agreements  
being unenforceable.
Mr P was undoubtedly a client of Wealthmasters.
The line being  drawn between Mr S acting  as an adviser for Wealthmasters and Mr S 
acting for his unregulated firm is artificial.
It is only through Mr Ps documented  relationship  with Wealthmasters that the 
investment in Green Oil came about.
Mr S was Mr Ps adviser  in respect of his collective investment account,  he advised  
Mr P to encash the account and it is not possible to then conclude  that he gave 
advice in respect of Green Oil just a few days later acting in a different capacity  
these transactions  are linked.
What Wealthmasters  has said:
It is not responsible  for Mr S actions.
Mr S was not carrying out the acts complained about as a registered individual of it.
Instead, it says he was acting on behalf of an unregulated business he had.
Mr S contract restricted him from selling products that had not been pre-approved by 
Wealthmasters, Green Oil had not been  approved by it and it was not aware of the 
investment being made.
It is not in dispute that advice was given to Mr P on a number of occasions by 
Wealthmasters  on each  occasion according to the client  agreement entered  into at 
the time for the specific regulated  advice requested.
Mr P sought specific unregulated guidance  from Mr S unregulated firm on a number 
of occasions as well. These activities were  clearly segregated.
It is not accurate  that Mr P was not aware of this separate entity.
Any regulated  advice was specifically carried out by the regulated  company at the 
time and there was a clear divide between  that, and the non-regulated activities  
carried out by and paid to Mr S unregulated firm. The introduction  of the Green  Oil 
investment followed  this model and was clearly distinct.
Green Oil was not a UCIS, it was a non-regulated product and activities relating to 
the sale of it were not subject to FSMA, COBS rules  or deemed a regulated activity.
Mr P was an existing client of Mr S unregulated business, so no referral between the 
companies took place.
Mr S intent  in respect of his regulated advice does not confer  regulatory  advice  in 
respect of his non regulated activities or decisions. It has been  established  that he 
received no advice in respect of Green Oil. Mr Ps awareness of the product 
precedes his decisions  and he received no advice  to move his money  prior to 
deciding to take up the product.
In Mr S statement he says, amongst other  things, that:
The alternative investments were not recommended in my capacity  as an adviser of 
Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd. They were introduced under [name of his 
unregulated business] as being of interest to the client  given his investment 
Ref: DRN14238055requirements and diversification  from previous objectives discussed. The nature of 
alternatives were discussed including the types,  risks and background. [First name of 
consumer] was issued  with a [name of his unregulated  business] "Guide to Alternative 
Investments on 14/12/2011, setting out the types and risks inherent with them. The 
non-regulated nature  of them and the typical type and use of assets was discussed.
No advice was given by Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd or [name of his 
unregulated business], [first name  of the consumer] was introduced to the schemes 
and provided with ways in which  he could  carry out his own personal due diligence.
This included but was not limited to Google  Maps, Companies House, Australian 
Land Registry and research independently on the internet  for "green oil". The client 
took as much time as needed to therefore  research the project as being suitable  for 
him.
We met in February 2012 to specifically discuss this. Disclaimers were also issued to 
confirm the nature, and risks of this type of investment
And
The client had built up experience of investments and implemented a realistic 
investment portfolio in keeping with the objectives  and risk assessments (i.e. 
Structured Products, Investment Trusts etc) and the funds allocated to the Green Oil 
alternatives at the time represented  around  10% of the client's asset value.
And
The client was introduced to the product having  expressed an interest during 
discussions in such plans.  Details were  therefore provided in keeping with the 
request and stated  needs.
Because agreement  could  not be reached the complaint was escalated  to me for my 
consideration. I sent my provisional decision, which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, to Mr P and Wealthmasters. I said I thought we could consider the complaint  
against Wealthmasters, as Wealthmasters is responsible for the advice Mr P complains  
about, and that the advice was unsuitable.  I also set out how Wealthmasters should put 
things right. I said that I would consider anything either party  wanted  to add. 
Mr P accepted my findings. Wealthmasters disagreed and made further  submissions. 
Wealthmasters final submissions: 
Key facts that are material to the outcome of the complaint are in dispute. 
Extensive documentation  has been provided  to support its position, we should  be 
relying on contemporaneous evidence ahead  of assertions made by Mr P.
The documentation  was provided  by Mr S unregulated business not Wealthmasters 
to highlight that the introduction was not regulated and not covered by the 
ombudsman. 
Wealthmasters played no role in the events complained about and it certainly  is not 
liable for them.  
The outcome  reached involves concluding  that Mr P would have done something 
differently if he had been advised differently, such a strong assertion cannot 
reasonably be reached on the basis of the case file alone and the file does not 
support the conclusion reached. 
Ref: DRN14238056It is not reasonable to base the outcome  of the complaint on assertions  made  by 
Mr P. 
The case  law cited is not relevant to this case. Mr P withdrawing the funds from his 
investment account and investing  in Green Oil were isolated incidents. Mr P withdrew 
his funds from the investment account  because  of concerns about market  volatility 
and later decided  to use these funds to invest in Green Oil. This action was 
reasonable and just as likely.
Mr P had lots of experience with capital at risk products and had received 
documentation clearly  outlining  the risks involved. He was capable of doing  what he 
did without advice.  
The likely scenario  supported by documentary  evidence  has been ignored.  The 
actions taken by Mr P were not as a result of guidance received from Wealthmasters, 
for which it can be held liable. 
My findings in relation to apparent authority are unfair on the basis  that:
oThe evidence provided does not support reaching this finding,  the only thing 
that supports  it are the unsubstantiated  claims made by Mr P after the event. 
oBased  on Mr Ps ongoing use of the unregulated services of Mr S 
unregulated business,  the distinct documentation, risk warnings and 
confirmation that no advice was being provided,  it is highly likely he 
understood he was dealing  with Mr S unregulated  business and the nature  of 
those dealings. 
oMr P had experience  of receiving regulated advice from Wealthmasters, so he 
knew of the documentation that was provided  in the course  of this such  as: 
fact finds, terms of business  and recommendation reports.  
oIt is highly unlikely  that Mr P did not know the process and requirements  when 
he sought advice.
My findings on vicarious  liability are not reflected by the established facts of the case:
oMr S was not Wealthmasters employee but he was bound by a strict contract, 
setting out his duties when undertaking business for which it accepted  
responsibility. 
oAs documented  the two entities involved are completely separate  Mr S 
unregulated business  and Wealthmasters) with different  names, branding and 
activities that could  not likely be confused. 
oMr P had experience  with both entities and understood the processes and the 
associated documentation. 
oNo evidence has been provided showing Wealthmasters involvement in the 
transaction complained about.  
oThe entire assessment is based  on an unfounded assertion.
If Mr P did receive advice, which it denies,  the process would be akin to execution-
only. He researched the investment and the risks involved and decided  to go ahead 
from an informed position  it cannot  be held liable  for this. 
 
Because agreement  could  not be reached the complaint was passed  back to me for final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN14238057My findings
I have looked  at all of the information provided  by both parties  in order to decide  whether this 
complaint is one we can consider. And, having done so, I have  concluded the complaint is 
one we can consider.  I have then considered all the available  evidence and arguments to 
decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them, for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
I am required to take into account all of the evidence submitted by both parties when making  
my decision  and I reconsidered all of this before making my final decision. It is for me to 
decide how much  weight to attach to a particular piece of evidence.  
The responses to my provisional decision cover a number of different points and arguments. 
I have broken these  down  into the below topics and addressed them  in turn. My attached 
provisional decision forms part of this decision  a number of the arguments  raised  by 
Wealthmasters in response to my provisional decision cover issues that I have  already 
considered and addressed within that decision,  so I have not repeated  my findings in respect  
of all of these at length  again.  
I have reconsidered  all the evidence and arguments both parties have provided on this 
complaint including the responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, I remain  of 
the view that this complaint is one we can consider, that Wealthmasters is responsible  for 
the advice complained about, the advice was unsuitable and Wealthmasters should 
compensate Mr P for the losses he suffered.  
In my provisional decision I found  that:
Mr Ps complaint is about an act or omission in relation  to the carrying  on of the 
regulated activity of giving investment  advice.
Mr S was acting for Wealthmasters when undertaking the activities  complained 
about. 
Wealthmasters represented  to Mr P that Mr S had authority to conduct business of 
the same  type as the business he did conduct.  Mr P relied on those representations.  
Apparent authority  therefore operated and Wealthmasters is responsible for the acts 
Mr P complains  about.
In addition, Wealthmasters  is vicariously  liable for the investment advice Mr S gave to 
Mr P. Although he was not an employee of Wealthmasters, he was an approved 
person with responsibility for carrying on Wealthmasters business of advising  its 
customers and arranging the investments recommended. As such  he carried on 
activities as an integral part of Wealthmasters business and had a sufficient 
relationship to Wealthmasters for vicarious liability to arise. Mr S advice was so 
Ref: DRN14238058closely connected to Wealthmasters  business activities  as to make it just to hold 
Wealthmasters liable  for it.
Wealthmasters is also liable to Mr P under section 150 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000.
Mr Ps complaint is therefore within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service.
Mr S advice  was unsuitable for Mr P in light of his circumstances.
Mr P acted  on the advice and suffered  loss as a result of it.
It is fair and reasonable for Wealthmasters to compensate Mr P for that loss.
Consistency
Wealthmasters has highlighted a number of cases that it believes contradict the outcome 
reached in this case. I understand  that it feels strongly about this and that consistency is 
important. However, having taken into account  its comments and the cases it refers  to, I 
remain satisfied that my findings in relation to the merits of this complaint are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulated activity (evidence of advice)
Wealthmasters says that Mr S did not advise Mr P in relation to the investment complained 
about. 
It is not in dispute  that Mr P had an ongoing advisory relationship  with Wealthmasters. It 
says that Mr P also had an ongoing  relationship with Mr S unregulated  business. I have not 
been provided with evidence  of this. The only documentation issued on Mr S unregulated 
business stationary  was a cover  letter  and alternative investment guide (around the time of 
the sale).  And I remain of the view that the available evidence and sequence of events 
support the finding that Mr S (on behalf of Wealthmasters) advised  Mr P to close his 
collective investment account to invest in Green Oil. 
Wealthmasters held regular reviews with Mr P during which it advised him on his 
investments. One of the investments that formed part of these reviews was the investment  
that was disinvested and closed  and monies  from which were used to make  the Green Oil 
investment. Wealthmasters has argued  that these were separate  events i.e. Mr P decided  to 
encash his investment and later decided to invest in Green Oil. 
The information about alternative  investments was sent to Mr P in December 2011 provided 
that:
Following our recent meeting you have  expressed  an interest in Alternative 
Investments, please therefore find provided  our guide to this area for your perusal. I 
have also enclosed details of several schemes  [sic] for your personal consideration 
and to allow you the opportunity to review Due Diligence carried out by [name  of 
third-party company]  and to facilitate your own research and Due Diligence into these 
Alternative Investment  Opportunities.
Ref: DRN14238059Based on this letter and submissions from both parties I think that the subject of alternative 
investments came about through a meeting between Mr P and Mr S. I have not been 
provided with any evidence of this meeting being  anything other than one of Mr Ps regular 
investment reviews with Mr S, acting for Wealthmasters. 
I do not think that Mr P was an experienced investor. Throughout his relationship with Mr S, 
he appears to have been reliant on Mr S advice.  Based on Mr Ps experience  and 
circumstances I think it is most likely that the subject of alternative  investments was raised 
by Mr S not him. The sequence of events  does not support  the closing of Mr Ps collective 
investment account  and investment in Green  Oil being separate  unrelated events. Mr P met 
with Mr S. During this meeting alternative  investments were discussed, and shortly after this 
the collective investment  account was closed  and when the money  became  available this 
was invested in Green Oil. I think it is most  likely that it would have taken a recommendation 
from Mr S for Mr P to pursue  this course  of action. And, as I mention above, I am satisfied 
Mr S was acting for Wealthmasters at this meeting  I have seen nothing to suggest this was 
separate from the usual interaction  between  Mr P and Mr S, acting as Wealthmasters 
advisor. Furthermore, it is only in his capacity as registered individual  of Wealthmasters that 
Mr S could provide  investment advice. Mr S unregulated business could not provide 
investment advice and its cover letter providing information about  alternative  investments 
confirmed that it was not providing advice. 
Taking everything into account,  including the evidence provided  and sequence of events,  I 
think that Mr P closed his collective investment  account in order to make the Green Oil 
investment and that he was advised to do so by Mr S, whilst Mr S was acting  for 
Wealthmasters. 
I recognise that Wealthmasters strongly  disagrees that advice was given and that it was 
responsible for any such advice but my findings  remain as set out in my provisional decision 
for the reasons set out within that decision and above. 
Apparent authority  
In relation to this, I need to consider whether Wealthmasters placed Mr S in a position which  
would objectively carry Wealthmasters authority for Mr S to conduct  business of the type he 
did in fact conduct.
I note that the case law does not say that apparent  authority  operates  only when a principal  
has represented that an agent has authority to carry out a specific act. Apparent  authority 
also operates where a principal has represented that its agent has its authority to carry out a 
more general class of acts.
For example, Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer referred to a representation  that the agent 
has authority to enter on behalf of the principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of 
the apparent  authority. And in Armagas, Lord Keith said that in the commonly encountered  
case apparent authority  is general in character arising when the agent is placed in a 
position generally regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions  of the kind in 
question.
In Hely-Hutchinson, Lord Denning said that people who see a managing director acting as a 
managing director  are entitled to assume  that he has the usual authority of a managing  
director.  I consider that the usual authority of a managing director  includes a wide variety  
of acts.
Ref: DRN142380510Here, for the reasons  I have already  given  in my provisional decision I am satisfied that 
Wealthmasters represented  to Mr P that Mr S had its authority to carry out the acts which  an 
independent financial  adviser would usually have authority to do  including giving 
investment advice. 
Wealthmasters did not specifically mention the Green Oil investment in its representations, 
but that is not determinative.  Neither  is the point that Mr S did not have actual authority to 
give the advice  he gave. Mr S had Wealthmasters apparent authority to act on its behalf in 
advising Mr P to surrender existing  investments  to reinvest in Green  Oil, because  he had 
Wealthmasters more  general apparent authority to act on its behalf  in giving him that kind of 
investment advice. 
Wealthmasters representations  as to the authority of Mr S
Descriptions of an individuals status contained  in business stationery can, as the courts 
have found, be relevant  representations creating apparent authority. This was the finding in 
Martin v Britannia  Life, by Jonathan  Parker  J on apparent authority based on the contents  of 
a business card. 
Obtaining approval  from the Regulator  for Mr S to advise Wealthmasters customers  about  
investments was also part of the conduct by which  Wealthmasters held him out to the world 
in general as authorised to do that.
The fact that this amounts to a representation does not mean  that Wealthmasters would be 
liable for anything said or done by Mr S relating to anything which might broadly amount  to 
financial advice. The cases of both Martin v Britannia and Anderson v Sense show  how such  
matters can be applied  (and limited) in practice.
I am not saying in this case there  was a holding out that everything  Mr S might  do was 
authorised. But, to the extent that he gave  advice to Wealthmasters customers  such  as 
Mr P, about his investments, this was the type of business he was held out as carrying on for 
Wealthmasters.
It remains my finding that Wealthmasters did represent to Mr P through its conduct that Mr S 
had its authority to act on its behalf  in carrying on the activities  complained about.
Reasonable Reliance
Wealthmasters says that it is highly likely Mr P would have been aware that Mr S was acting  
for his unregulated  business not Wealthmasters. Mr P had experience in dealing  with both 
companies and knew  the process followed when Wealthmasters gave regulated  advice. This 
in addition to the distinct literature would  have made  it apparent  that Mr S was not giving 
advice on behalf  of Wealthmasters. 
Mr P did have lots of experience dealing with Wealthmasters,  he had an ongoing advisory 
relationship with Mr S  through  which he received investment advice, including  in relation to 
the investment  that was closed to invest in Green  Oil. Wealthmasters says he also had 
experience of dealing with Mr S unregulated business but  other than the cover  letter  and 
alternative investment  guide  I have not been provided with evidence  of a relationship  
between Mr P and Mr S unregulated business.  The cover letter explicitly  says that Mr S 
unregulated business was only providing  information, so I dont think this reasonably would  
Ref: DRN142380511have led Mr P to conclude that the advice I have  found he received came from Mr S 
unregulated business. Instead,  I am satisfied  Mr P understood  he was being  advised by 
Mr S in his capacity as an advisor for Wealthmasters, as he had in the past. 
Given the ongoing relationship between Mr S as agent of Wealthmasters and Mr P, and that 
the relevant investment had been advised  on via that relationship, and that there is no 
evidence that Mr S was (or held himself out to have been) acting in a capacity other than as 
an advisor of Wealthmasters when he gave advice,  I think Mr P reasonably relied  that Mr S 
was acting as his investment adviser on behalf  of Wealthmasters. Mr P was a retail  client  
who appears to have consistently  followed the advice of Mr S of Wealthmasters and, based 
on his submissions, it seems he trusted  Mr S to act in his best interests.  
We have not seen evidence of terms of business, fact-find or suitability letter  in relation to 
the advice complained about in this instance.  In the other instances  of advice, we have 
evidence of, Wealthmasters  did provide  such documents, this means  there was a difference  
in the process.  Mr P was an inexperienced  retail investor and I am not persuaded that he 
would consider this to be significant. I have not been  provided  with any evidence  a distinct 
process was highlighted and clearly explained to Mr P, such that he ought to have  realised 
the significance  of the normal documentation not being issued. I remain  of the view Mr P, as 
a retail client, reasonably  proceeded throughout on the footing that Mr S was acting as 
Wealthmasters advisor.  
I have found that this was a straightforward matter of a client dealing with his existing 
Wealthmasters adviser  because he was a Wealthmasters adviser. The same  Wealthmasters 
adviser who had previously provided recommendations in relation to the collective 
investment account  (encashed to make  the Green Oil investment) and was now 
recommending changes.  There is insufficient evidence to find that Mr P knew or should have 
known that Mr S was acting in any capacity other than a Wealthmasters adviser. Mr P 
proceeded on the basis that Mr S was acting in every respect as the agent of Wealthmasters 
with authority from Wealthmasters so to act.
Vicarious liability
Wealthmasters does  not agree that it is vicariously liable for the acts Mr P complains about. I 
considered this matter  in my provisional decision and said that the tests laid down  by the 
Supreme Court in Cox and Mohamud  were  applicable in this case. Since my provisional  
decision was issued,  vicarious liability has been  considered by the Court in WM Morrisons  
Supermarkets plc v Various Claimants  [2020],  and Barclays Bank plc v Various Claimants 
[2020]. However, I have  not reviewed this matter  in light of these new authorities because 
my decision  is that it is clear that Wealthmasters is liable for the acts of Mr S here by virtue 
of apparent authority.
Statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
In my provisional decision I set out that section  150 FSMA provided an alternative route by 
which Wealthmasters is responsible. I have not reviewed  this issue  as my decision is that 
Wealthmasters are liable for Mr S acts by virtue  of apparent authority. 
My findings  as to the merits  of the complaint
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN142380512Neither party has made any further  submissions on my findings in relation to the suitability of 
the advice in this instance or the way I said things should be put right.  And I remain satisfied 
that the findings set out in my attached provisional decision are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Wealthmasters did comment that if advice was given  which it denies  the process was 
more akin to execution-only because Mr P did his own due diligence and then decided to 
make the investment. I do not agree that the advice here could  be seen as akin to a 
execution-only process. Mr S, acting for Wealthmasters,  advised  Mr P to make the 
investment in Green Oil, and the regulatory obligations associated with the provision of 
advice therefore  apply. Wealthmasters is therefore responsible for the suitability of the 
advice. And I am not persuaded that Mr P was an insistent client  or that he was otherwise 
likely to go against suitable advice from his adviser,  had this been given. 
I remain of the view that Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld,  and it is fair and reasonable for 
Wealthmasters to compensate him for the losses he has suffered  as a result  of the 
unsuitable advice.  In addition to the financial losses Mr P has suffered, I think  the unsuitable 
advice and resultant  losses  have caused  him distress and inconvenience, Wealthmasters 
should compensate  Mr P for this as well.
Fair compensation
I am satisfied that if Mr S, giving the advice for which Wealthmasters is responsible,  had 
acted fairly  and reasonably and fulfilled his regulatory obligation to give suitable advice this 
would have put a stop to the transaction and Mr P would never  have invested  in Green Oil.  
Because of this, I find that Wealthmasters should  compensate Mr P for the full measure of 
his losses as set out below.
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr P's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Wealthmasters  do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Wealthmasters  must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Wealthmasters  should also pay interest  as set out below.
Pay to Mr P £350 for the distress  caused  by the loss of a significant amount of his 
investments.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN142380513investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
the monies 
invested in 
Green Oilstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement  (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days  of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date the investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed  to be zero. This is provided Mr P agrees to Wealthmasters taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Wealthmasters to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr P that he repays to Wealthmasters 
any amount he may receive from the investment  in future. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Wealthmasters 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Wealthmasters totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead  of 
deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Capital growth with a small  risk to his capital would have been suitable for Mr P.
Ref: DRN142380514The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing  different asset  classes, mainly  UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some 
risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr P's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mr P into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr P would have  invested 50% of his money  in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr P could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective  and risk attitude.
My final decision  
For the reasons  set out in this decision and the attached provisional decision, this complaint 
does fall within my jurisdiction.
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wealthmasters Financial Management  Ltd should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd should  provide details of its calculation to Mr P in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2021.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL FINDINGS
I have looked at all of the information provided by both parties  in order to decide whether this 
complaint is one we can consider. And, having done so, I have concluded the complaint is one we 
can consider.  I have  then considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  what's fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. I have addressed each  point in turn below.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position and I am 
grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to be the 
central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in 
detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching
them.
My provisional findings on jurisdiction
The ombudsman service operates under a set of rules  and guidance that tell us what  we can
Ref: DRN142380515and cannot look at. These  are published as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook  
 in a section called Dispute Resolution:  complaints (the DISP rules).  Under DISP 2.3.1R, this 
service can only consider  a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to:
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more  of the listed activities (which includes 
regulated activities); or
any ancillary activities carried on by a firm in connection with those  activities.
And the guidance at DISP  2.3.3G says:
Complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which  the
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent  for
which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This means  there are three questions I need to answer  to decide whether  this complaint can
be considered  under  our compulsory  jurisdiction:
1.What are the acts that are the subject of Mr Ps complaint?
2.Were the acts about  which  Mr P complains done in the carrying on of a regulated activity or 
an ancillary activity  carried on in connection  with a regulated  activity?
3.Were those  acts ones for which Wealthmasters was responsible? 
What are the acts that are the subject of Mr Ps complaint?
Mr Ps complaint focuses on the losses he suffered as a result of investing  in Green Oil. He says that 
he was advised to encash  his collective investment account in order to invest in Green Oil. So, I think 
that Mr Ps complaint encompasses advice  to encash his collective investment account,  advice to 
invest in Green  Oil and the facilitation of all of this  Mr P says that Mr S completed all of the forms so 
he just had to sign them.
Were the acts about  which Mr P complains done in the carrying on of a regulated activity or an 
ancillary activity  carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
Regulated activities  are set out in Part II of The Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000
(Regulated Activities) Order  2001 (the RAO). They include:
Advising on investments  where the advice  relates  to buying, selling, subscribing for or 
underwriting a particular investment which  is a security or a contractually based investment  
(article 53 RAO).
Arranging deals in investments  for another  personto  buy, sell, subscribe  for or underwrite a 
particular investment  which is a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO).
Wealthmasters says that no regulated  activity was undertaken  by it in respect of the complaint raised. 
Whereas Mr P says that Mr S, in his capacity as adviser for Wealthmasters,  advised him to encash 
his collective investment account in order to invest in Green Oil. There is limited documentary  
evidence from the time of sale and, as noted above, the testimony provided by the parties involved is 
contradictory.
It is not in dispute that Mr S, in his capacity as adviser  for Wealthmasters,  had been providing Mr P 
with regulated  advice for a number of years prior to Mr P investing in Green Oil. Mr S also 
recommended that Mr P take out the investment that was encashed  to invest in Green Oil. Numerous 
investment reviews were held. These included revising how the relevant  collective  investment account 
was invested.
Ref: DRN142380516In accordance with Mr S testimony Mr P was introduced to alternative investments following a 
discussion they had, during which  he expressed an interest in such investments. I think  it is most  
likely that this discussion  took place  during one of Mr Ps regular meetings  with Mr S (of 
Wealthmasters) to discuss  his investments. Shortly after this the collective  investment account was 
encashed  and, once  the monies were received  the application to invest  in Green Oil was signed and 
submitted. Taking  into account the sequence of events and the information we have, I think it is clear 
that the investment was encashed in order to invest  in Green Oil.
I think  it is more  likely  than not that Mr S recommended  this course  of action.  Mr S had an ongoing  
advisory relationship with Mr P. Throughout this Mr P was reliant on Mr S advice in respect of his 
investments. The relevant collective  investment account formed part of the portfolio Mr S was 
reviewing on a regular basis. I think it would  have  taken a recommendation from Mr S for Mr P to 
have pursued  the course of action that he did, particularly  when taking into account his investment 
experience. In turn, I think  that Mr S actions  in respect of the complaint raised   amounted to the 
regulated activity of advising  on investments.  I think Mr S actions most  likely also amounted to 
making arrangements in investments but having  found that Mr S gave advice I have focused  on this.
Having concluded  that the acts that are the subject of the complaint were carried  on in
connection with a regulated  activity, I have gone on to consider if those acts were acts for
which Wealthmasters was responsible.
Were those acts ones for which Wealthmasters was responsible?
As set out above, DISP  2.3.3G says:
Complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which  the
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for
which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
There are two parts to this question  and the answer  needs to be yes to both in order for me
to conclude Wealthmasters was responsible  for Mr Ss actions:
1.Was Mr S acting on behalf of Wealthmasters when the acts complained  about happened?
2.And if Mr S was acting  on behalf of Wealthmasters, was it business  Wealthmasters had 
accepted responsibility for?
Was Mr S acting on behalf of Wealthmasters when the acts complained  about happened?
Around the time Mr P invested in Green Oil, Mr S acted  in two different capacities   on behalf of 
Wealthmasters (which  was regulated); and on behalf of his own unregulated business. If he was 
carrying out regulated activities  as I have  concluded  he was  he ought to have been acting on 
behalf of Wealthmasters  at the time.
Mr P says he never knowingly had dealings with Mr S unregulated business. He said he had 
historically had dealings with it under its previous  name when  it was a regulated  business. But he said 
that since it had changed  its name and become  unregulated, his business  had all been with 
Wealthmasters as far as he was aware.
Wealthmasters has provided:
A cover letter to Mr P dated 14 December  2011 which  said:
Following our recent meeting you have expressed an interest in Alternative
Investments, please therefore find provided our guide to this area for your
perusal. I have also enclosed details of several schemes  for your personal
consideration and to allow  you the opportunity to review  Due Diligence carried
out by [a third party] and to facilitate your own research  and Due Diligence
Ref: DRN142380517into these Alternative Investment Opportunities
This guide is purely for information purposes and should  not be used or relied
upon for investment  decisions.  [Mr S unregulated  business] does  not provide
advice in connection with the suitability  of alternative investments or any other
type of investment. Alternative Investments  are Not currently regulated by the
Financial Services  Authority and are therefore not covered by the Financial  Services 
Compensation Scheme  or the Financial  Ombudsman Service.
An alternative investments guide   which it has provided as a sample of what  wouldve been 
included with the above cover letter. This appears to be from Mr S unregulated business.
A commission voucher for Mr Ps investment  dated 13 March 2012. This read:
Claimed By:
[Mr Ss unregulated business]
And it included an email address for Mr S that is linked to his unregulated  business.
Taking everything into account, I am satisfied Mr S only had access  to information about Mr Ps 
investment because of his role as a registered individual of Wealthmasters.  And, I think  it is most  
likely that he held himself  out as acting as a registered individual of Wealthmasters when carrying out 
regulated activities.  Indeed, Mr S could  not legitimately undertake regulated activities in his 
unregulated capacity and I am not persuaded that Mr S would intentionally act in breach of the 
general prohibition.
Wealthmasters says it received no fees or commission  in respect of the transaction complained 
about. I accept this may be the case. But that does not mean Mr S was not advising Mr P in his role 
as a registered  individual of Wealthmasters  when  he recommended Mr P withdraw money  from the 
collective investment  account he had at the time. I am satisfied  he was.
As Ive already explained, Mr S acted for Wealthmasters and his unregulated business. So, Mr S was 
one man with two hats, so to speak.
For the reasons  set out above I believe the process of advice and encashment began  with Mr S 
wearing his Wealthmasters hat. It does seem as though there was some involvement  from Mr S in his 
unregulated capacity  that is reflected in the paperwork I have been provided  with. Specifically, the 
promotional material in relation to alternative investments  was issued by Mr S unregulated  business. 
That literature highlighted that the business did not and could not give advice. The fact that the 
promotional literature was issued  by Mr S unregulated business does not mean Wealthmasters has 
no responsibility for what happened from that point.
The evidence  points to the Green  Oil investment being  in Mr S contemplation  when he was acting for 
Wealthmasters. I think it is most likely that the conversation  about alternatives came about via one of 
Mr Ps regular meetings with Mr S (as adviser  for Wealthmasters). I have also found that Mr S, in his 
capacity as adviser for Wealthmasters, recommended that Mr P encash his collective investment 
account  the purpose of this was to invest in Green Oil. Mr S knew  his later intentions when giving 
Mr P the advice to withdraw money from his collective investment account.  The evidence does not 
support there being a clear  separation between the disinvestment and the Green Oil investment. It is 
clear to me that the disinvestment  was intended to facilitate the investment Mr P made. So, the 
disinvestment and the Green Oil investment were intrinsically linked.
In saying  this, I note the alert issued by the regulator in January  2013 which  said:
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation  will enable investment  in unregulated 
items you cannot separate out the unregulated  elements from the regulated elements.
Ref: DRN142380518I acknowledge this came  after the events complained about here. But I do not think  this
means it is not relevant  to this complaint. I say this because the alert was a reminder  of
existing obligations.
I have concluded that Mr S was acting on behalf of Wealthmasters when he advised  Mr P to
encash his collective investment account in order to make  the Green Oil investment. So, I
have gone on to consider whether this was business  for which  Wealthmasters had accepted
responsibility.
Was it business Wealthmasters had accepted responsibility for?
There are a number of ways  in which  a principal can be responsible for its agents activities
(actual, apparent,  vicarious).
Wealthmasters relationship with Mr S:
The FCA register lists Mr S under Individuals  in Wealthmasters Financial Management
Ltd.s listing,  this says:
This list shows the individual(s) who works  for, or used to work for, this firm and is
considered an approved  person.

[Mr S full name] [Mr S reference number]  Active
On Mr S individual page he is listed as active:
Mr [Mr S full name]  Status: Active (Reference number  [Mr S reference number])
This is an individual (and some firms) that can perform some tasks in an authorised firm. 
These individuals and firms are known  as 'approved persons' and the tasks as 'controlled 
functions'.
Under controlled functions it is recorded that he is currently CF30  Customer at Wealthmasters and 
has been since early  2011.
Under historic controlled  functions   in so far as relevant  it is listed that he had been:
CF1 Director  Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd; and
CF30 Customer   Wealthmasters Financial Management
On companies  house it is recorded that Mr S had been an officer of Wealthmasters.
The agreement between Wealthmasters and Mr S, which  appointed  him as its registered individual 
and set out the business for which Wealthmasters accepted responsibility,  said:
WHEREAS
A. The Company  is regulated by the Financial  Services Authority (FSA) Registration  Number 
536087 and wishes to appoint the Consultant [Mr S] as an agent  of the Company to carry  
Investment Business as defined  in the FSA Supervision Manual and Non-Regulated  Business 
and advisory  services under the terms of this Agreement.
B. The Consultant has agreed to become a Consultant of the Company to carry  out all 
Investment business and Non-regulated Business and advisory services through the 
Company to the exclusion of any other parties  in accordance with Clause  3 of this Agreement  
Ref: DRN142380519and to act at all times in compliance with the applicable  rules and regulations  applicable from 
time to time of the FSA and of any other regulation applicable to the Agreement.
And
1. DEFINITIONS
In this Agreement to the following expressions  shall have the meanings set out
below:-

Applications means applications for any Contract or services of the kinds
from time to time dealt in or provided by the Company;

Contract (s) means any policies of assurance, annuity contracts, pension
plans or policies,  permanent health insurance policies,  medical insurance policies,
terms assurance, any business regulated  by the FSA and also insurance or financial
products and services  of any such nature as shall for the time being  offered or dealt
with by the Company  (whether regulated under the Act or not);

Institution means any assurance or insurance Company, life office, fund
manager, unit trust manager, stockbroker, finance house, financial institution, trust
Company or any other similar institution approved by the Company with which  the
Company has, for the time being, established an agency for Contracts from time to
time for the purposes of this Agreement;
Investment means any investment business as defined in the glossary of
the FSA Handbook;
2. APPOINTMENT
2.1.1 The Company  hereby  grants to the Consultant with effect from the date hereof  to 
provide advice comprising Regulated and Non-Regulated Business and to obtain Applications  
upon the terms set out in this Agreement subject to the Consultant  at all times being properly 
registered with the FSA as a registered individual.
And
3.5 The Consultant shall only submit Applications to Institutions approved by the Company;
3.8 The Company in its absolute discretion may impose  restrictions upon the type of advice 
that the Consultant may give to Clients from time to time. The Consultant  shall comply strictly 
with any such restrictions upon being notified by the Company in writing.
And
5.2 All Applications must  be accompanied  by the following documents:-
5.2.1 A completed  Confidential Client Questionnaire Form and Suitability Report in a form 
prescribed by the Company demonstrating that the Consultant has given proper consideration  
to the Clients circumstances and requirements  and has given the best advice appropriate
The agreement gives Mr S authority to give investment  advice, there does not appear to be any 
restriction on the type of investment advice  as such. The agreement  also authorises Mr S to 
Ref: DRN142380520undertake non-regulated activities on behalf of Wealthmasters. It does, however,  seek  to limit Mr S to 
submitting application only to those providers  which Wealthmasters has approved.
I am not persuaded that this would stop Wealthmasters from being  responsible for Mr S advice to 
encash the collective  investment account. I think that that advice falls within the scope of authority 
provided to Mr S under  the agreement  and, the encashment  advice was sufficiently closely  linked to 
the sale of Green Oil.
The process  followed and lack of documentation produced  is not compliant  with the process
Wealthmasters prescribed. Again, I dont think that the absence of paperwork proves  that
Mr S was not acting on Wealthmasters behalf  or, that it is not responsible for his actions
as a result of the process followed.
That said, in order for Mr S to be acting with actual authority, he had to be acting honestly and on 
behalf of the principal (Wealthmasters).
In this instance,  Mr S was moving Mr Ps investment away from an investment on Wealthmasters 
books to an unregulated product that his unregulated firm not Wealthmasters received commission 
for. Given the involvement (at least to a degree) of Mr S unregulated firm and that the transaction 
appears to be in the interests of that firm rather than Wealthmasters, I think it is possible that Mr S 
was not acting  with actual authority in line with the above. So, I have gone on to think about whether 
or not there are any other ways in which  Wealthmasters could be responsible for the advice that Mr P 
complains about.
What is apparent authority?
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual authority of his agent. But if the agent acts 
outside of that actual  authority, the case law shows that a principal may still be liable to third parties  
for the agents acts if those  acts were  within  the agents "apparent authority".  This is the case  even if 
the agent  was acting fraudulently and in furtherance of his own interest  provided  the agent  is acting 
within his apparent  authority.
This type of authority was described  by Diplock  LJ in Freeman  & Lockyer v Buckhurst
Properties (Mangal) Ltd [1964]  2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authorityis a legal  relationship  between the principal and the 
contractor created by a representation, made by the principal  to the contractor, intended to be 
and in fact acted  upon  by the contractor,  that the agent has authority to enter on behalf of the 
principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the "apparent"  authority, so as to render 
the principal  liable  to perform any obligations imposed upon him by such contract.  To the 
relationship so created  the agent is a stranger. He need  not be (although he generally  is) 
aware of the existence of the representation but he must not purport to make the agreement 
as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by the contractor by entering into a 
contract with the agent, operates as an estoppel, preventing the principal from asserting that 
he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the agent had actual authority to enter 
into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the "actual" authority of the agent.  His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agents  actual authority  is. All that the contractor can know is what they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority...
Although Diplock LJ referred to "contractors", the law on apparent authority applies to any third party  
such as Mr P in this instance  dealing with the agents of a principal.
Ref: DRN142380521In Hely-Hutchinson  v Brayhead  Ltd [1968]  1 QB 549, Lord Denning  said (at 583):
"Ostensible or apparent authority is the authority  of an agent as it appears to others. It often 
coincides with actual authority. Thus,  when  the board appoint one of their number to be 
managing director,  they invest him not only with implied  authority, but also with ostensible  
authority to do all such things as fall within the usual scope of that office. Other  people who 
see him acting as managing  director are entitled to assume that he has the usual authority of 
a managing director but sometimes ostensible  authority exceeds actual authority. For 
instance, when the board appoint the managing director they may expressly  limit his authority 
by saying  he is not to order goods worth more  than £500 without the sanction of the board, in 
that case his actual  authority is subject to the £500 limitation, but his ostensible authority 
includes all the usual authority of a managing  director. The company is bound by his 
ostensible authority  in his dealings with those who do not know of the limitation. He may 
himself do the "holding-out". Thus, if he orders goods worth £1,000 and signs himself 
"Managing Director for and on behalf of the company," the company is bound  to the other 
party who does not know of the £500 limitation."
So, where  a person, by words or conduct,  represents or permits  it to be represented  that an agent has 
authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that agent  with respect to anyone dealing with 
the agent  on the faith of any such representation, to the same extent as if the agent  had the authority 
that the agent  was represented to have, even if the agent had no such actual authority.
What kinds of representation are capable of giving  rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot  arise  on the basis of representations made  by the agent  alone. For 
apparent authority to arise there must be a representation by the principal that the agent  has its 
authority to act. As Diplock LJ said in Freeman:
The representation  which  creates "apparent" authority may take a variety  of forms of which  
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principals business  with other persons. By so doing  the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with other persons of the kind which 
an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  "actual" authority to 
enter into.
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999]12 WLUK 726, Parker J quoted the relevant principle  as stated in 
Article 74 in Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency  16th edition:
Where a person,  by words  or conduct,  represents or permits it to be represented that another  
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority.
In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834  Comm,  Jacobs J 
referenced and agreed  with Parker Js approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in particular  
paragraph 5.3.3) that, in order to establish apparent authority, it is necessary  for the claimants 
to establish a representation  made by Sense  [the alleged principal],  which was intended  to be 
acted on and which was in fact acted on by the claimants, that MFSS  [the alleged agent] was 
authorised by Sense  to give advice  in connection with the scheme
I also agree with Sense that there  is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the compulsory 
wording relating to the status of MFSS and Sense  appearing at the foot of the stationery and 
Ref: DRN142380522elsewhere  which can be read as containing any relevant representation as to MFSSs 
authority to do what they were doing  in this case: i.e. running the scheme  and advising in 
relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more than identify the regulatory status of MFSS 
and Sense and the relationship between them. I did not consider that the Claimants had 
provided any persuasive reason as to how the statements on which they relied  relating to 
"status disclosure"  could  lead to the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised to provide advice 
on the scheme that was being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible authority requires  
much more than an assertion that Sense conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As 
Martin shows, it requires a representation  that there was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe  relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even  unwittingly 
led a customer to believe  that an appointed representative or other agent is authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct.  
Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions  in Martin. That case was not concerned 
with any representation  alleged to arise from "status" disclosure. In Martin, the representation 
by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was 
regarded as a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage 
in that case) which were ancillary  to insurance products.  In the present case, there is nothing  
in the "status disclosure" which contains any representation that MFSS  or its financial 
advisers could operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme  that MFSS  was 
running.
The representation may be general  in character. In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas SA [1985]
UKHL 11, Lord Keith said:
In the commonly encountered case, the ostensible authority is general in character, arising 
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question. Ostensible  
general authority may also arise where the agent has had a course of dealing with a particular  
contractor and the principal  has acquiesced in this course of dealing  and honoured 
transactions arising out of it.
Must the third party rely on the representation?
The principals representation that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf will only fix the 
principal with liability  to the third party (Mr P in this instance) if the third party  relied on that 
representation.
In Anderson, Jacobs J summarised the approach to be taken  as to whether or not there is sufficient 
evidence of reliance on the representation  as follows:
a relevant  ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of the 
representation alleged: see Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency 21st edition, paragraph [8-
010] and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan  Parker J. held that the relevant 
representation in that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every 
respect as the agent of [the alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal]  so to 
act.
On the particular facts of that case, Jacobs J placed weight on the fact the majority of the claimants 
had never  heard of the defendant, Sense  Network, and that those who had heard of it made  their 
decision to invest in the relevant scheme before they saw the stationery which they later said 
contained the representation on which they relied.
As the case law makes  clear, whether or not a claimant has relied on a representation is
dependent on the circumstances of that individual  case.
Ref: DRN142380523Here, I must consider  whether, on the facts  of this individual  case:
Wealthmasters made a representation  to Mr P that Mr S had its authority  to act on its behalf 
in carrying out the activities that are the subject of this complaint;  and
Mr P relied on that representation in entering into the transactions that are the subject of this 
complaint.
Having considered  the law in this area, including Lord Keiths comments  in Armagas , so far as 
representations are concerned I need  to decide  whether Wealthmasters placed Mr S in a position 
which would objectively  generally be regarded  as carrying its authority to enter into transactions  such  
as the investment in Green Oil and the surrender of the existing investment in order to do so. Put 
another way, did Wealthmasters knowingly   or even unwittingly  lead Mr P to believe that Mr S was 
authorised to conduct business on its behalf  of a type (namely, advising  and arranging  investments) 
that, in the circumstances,  Mr S did not have actual authority  to undertake?
I also need  to decide whether Mr P relied  on any representation Wealthmasters  made. Having 
considered Parker Js comments  in Martin, if Mr P proceeded  throughout on the footing  that in giving 
advice Mr S was acting  in every respect as the agent of Wealthmasters with authority  from 
Wealthmasters so to act, then this suggests I should conclude that Mr P relied  on Wealthmasters 
representation.
Who was Mr S acting  for when  he carried out the acts complained of?
In this case, I have found that it is more likely  than not that Mr S advised  Mr P on the merits
of encashing his existing  investment. I think Mr S also advised on investing in Green Oil.
As I have said above, I have  found that Mr S was acting as an agent  of Wealthmasters when he gave 
advice to Mr P to surrender  his existing investment in order to invest in Green Oil. Indeed,  this is the 
only capacity within which Mr S could  legally give this advice. Although some promotional  literature 
was issued  by Mr S unregulated business, this confirms that it was not giving advice. I remain of the 
view that it is most likely that Mr S advised Mr P to encash  his existing investment in order  to invest in 
Green Oil.
Mr P has said that he understood Mr S to be acting as Wealthmasters adviser when he gave that 
advice. I accept that it is more likely  than not that this was the case.
Did Wealthmasters represent to Mr P that Mr S had the relevant authority?
Mr P had an ongoing relationship  with Mr S [as investment  adviser on behalf of Wealthmasters]. This 
dated back a number of years to when Mr S had been directly authorised. During this time,  Mr S gave 
Mr P investment advice  several times (including in relation to the investment which was surrendered  
in order to invest  in Green Oil).
I have not seen any evidence that Mr P received a terms of business  agreement  in relation
to the disputed  advice. Generally, taking the wider  evidence into account. I am satisfied that
in principle  Mr S was authorised to:
Advise on the surrender  of an existing investment in order to make new investments, such as 
Green Oil; and
Advise on the merits of making  an investment  such as Green Oil.
Prior to and around the time of the advice that is the subject of this complaint Mr S undertook such  
activities as those that are the subject of this complaint on behalf of Wealthmasters as part of his 
ongoing relationship with Mr P.
A client agreement from 2011 between Mr P and Wealthmasters  provided, amongst other things,  that:
Ref: DRN142380524Wealthmasters Financial Management is authorised  and regulated  by the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA). Our Registration Number is 473876.  You can check  this on the FSAs  
Register
And
Wealthmasters Financial Management classifies  all clients as retail clients  for investment 
businessthis means you are afforded all protections under the rules  of the Financial  
Services Authority (FSA).
And
Wealthmasters Financial Management is permitted to advise on and arrange (bring  about) 
deals in investments and non-investment insurance  contracts.
And
Investments  We offer products from the whole market.
The activities  that are the subject of this complaint  are activities that fall within the class of activities 
that IFAs are usually authorised to do. Any restrictions on the authority to give such advice would  not 
have been visible to Mr P. So, for example, he would  not know  that an adviser should only 
recommend approved investments or should present the advice in certain ways.
Wealthmasters placed Mr S in a position which would, in the outside world,  generally be regarded as 
having authority to carry out the acts Mr P complains about. Wealthmasters authorised  Mr S to give 
investment advice on its behalf. Wealthmasters arranged for Mr S to appear on the FCA (then FSA)  
register in respect of Wealthmasters as an approved person. And Mr S was approved to carry on the 
controlled function  CF30 at the time of the disputed advice.
Based on the available information, Wealthmasters presented itself to consumers as an independent 
financial adviser that offered  products and gave advice  on the whole of the market based on its 
assessment of the clients needs. I have not seen any evidence that clients  in this case  Mr P  were 
provided with information about the agent only being  authorised  in relation to approved products.
Generally, I think it was Wealthmasters intention for it to be understood that Mr S was authorised to 
give investment advice  on its behalf and for clients to act on that representation.  It is clear  that giving 
investment advice is a key aspect of Wealthmasters  business and an integral part of it carrying on 
that business was for people to treat Mr S as having authority  to give investment advice  and act on 
this accordingly.
To be clear,  I am not saying that Wealthmasters should or could  be held liable for all of Mr S
acts and omissions  but, I do think that it may be responsible for acts or omissions  involving
transactions of the kind that it represented  Mr S had the authority to carry out.
Did Mr P rely on Wealthmasters representation?
Mr P has told us that he believed Mr S was acting as his adviser and an agent of Wealthmasters 
throughout the transaction complained  about. Taking everything into account, I think that Mr P 
proceeded on the footing  that that was the case and that he did so reasonably.
At the time of the advice complained about Mr P had an ongoing relationship  with Mr S that dated 
back several years. This appears to have consistently been with Mr S in his capacity as investment 
adviser. Mr S gave Mr P investment advice  as an agent  of Wealthmasters on numerous  occasions, 
including in relation to the investment that was ultimately  encashed in order to make the Green Oil 
investment, which Wealthmasters was the investment manager  of. Mr P appears to have consistently 
Ref: DRN142380525followed the advice he received and he did so on the basis that Mr S was his investment adviser and I 
think he did so in this instance too. I believe  this transaction came about through one of Mr Ps regular 
meetings with Mr S as investment adviser for Wealthmasters  and that it is in that capacity  that he 
recommended that Mr P encash his investment  account.
I have not seen any evidence that a separate  process/relationship was explained to and agreed by 
Mr P. As I have explained, some correspondence (an alternative  investment guide and the cover  
letter) was produced  by Mr S unregulated  business. The correspondence issued confirmed  that that 
business was not giving advice. I do not think that Mr P is likely  to have appreciated the significance  
of this information  coming from Mr S unregulated business  and, in any case, the paperwork 
confirmed that no advice was being given by that business, so I dont think  this reasonably would  
have led Mr P to conclude  that the advice he received came from Mr S unregulated business. I am 
not persuaded  that Mr P knew or that he should have known that Mr S was acting in any capacity 
other than as Wealthmasters adviser  in respect of the advice that is the subject of this complaint.
Is it just for Wealthmasters to be required to bear any losses  caused by Mr S?
The courts have taken into account whether it is just to require a principal  to bear a loss caused by 
the wrongdoing  of his agent. I have considered  whether  it is just to hold Wealthmasters responsible 
for any detriment Mr P has suffered as a result of the advice he received from Mr S.
I think  it is just to hold Wealthmasters responsible for the consequences of its putting  Mr S in the 
position where  Mr P could suffer loss as a result of his actions. In particular, I note:
Wealthmasters was in a position to monitor Mr S actions.
The advice came  about  through Mr S ongoing relationship with Mr P as Wealthmasters  
adviser.
Wealthmasters agency  agreement  acknowledges that it will be held responsible for the 
wrongs of its agents  and includes and requires the agent to provide it with an indemnity it 
respect of any losses etc. it suffers  as result of such wrongs.
So overall, I consider that it is just for Wealthmasters to be required to bear any losses caused by any 
wrong doing  done by Mr S whilst carrying  on a controlled function assigned  to him by Wealthmasters.
Vicarious liability
I think  it is also appropriate  for me to consider whether Wealthmasters is vicariously  liable for the 
actions of Mr S  independently of whether apparent authority also operated  such as to fix 
Wealthmasters with liability  for the actions of its agent in this instance.
What is vicarious  liability?
Vicarious liability is a common law principle of strict,  no-fault liability for wrongs  committed by
another person.
Not all relationships are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. The classic example  of a
relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability  is the employment relationship, but Mr S
was not an employee of Wealthmasters.  However,  the employment relationship is not the
only relationship capable of giving rise to vicarious  liability.
Broadly, there is a two stage  test to decide whether vicarious liability can apply:
Stage one is to ask whether there is a sufficient relationship between  the wrongdoer
and the principal  (Cox v Ministry  of Justice [2016] UKSC 10).
Stage two is to ask whether the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be held liable 
(Mohamud  WM Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016] UKSC 11).
Ref: DRN142380526There is some uncertainty  in the law as to how widely  the test in Cox should  be applied. I note that in 
Frederick v Positive Solutions [2018] EWCA Civ 431 the Court of Appeal explicitly declined  to decide 
whether the test in Cox applied to the relevant principals relationship with one of its registered  
individuals.
If it were  the case that vicarious liability  could  never have anything  to do with principals and agents, 
then I consider it likely that the Court of Appeal would have  simply said so. But, in any event, the 
relationship between  Mr S and Wealthmasters was not just an agency relationship. Mr S was 
registered with the FCA (then FSA) as an approved  person able to carry  out regulated activities on 
Wealthmasters behalf, and this complaint is about the regulated  activities of advising on and 
arranging deals in investments. I consider that it would be wrong  for me to simply  ignore or set aside 
the regulatory background  in reaching my decision.
I am not aware of any case  law concerning the exact set of circumstances that Mr P complains  about. 
But that does not prevent  me from applying the law as I understand  it to be applicable. In Cox, Lord 
Reed said:
the words used by judges are not to be treated as if they were the words of a statute. Where 
a case concerns circumstances which have not previously been the subject of an authoritative  
judicial decision, it may be valuable to stand back and consider whether the imposition  of 
vicarious liability would be fair, just and reasonable.
If Mr P had directed  his complaint to a court instead of this service, I think it is likely that the court  
would have to have applied the approach  suggested by Lord Reed. So, I have done the same.
The stage one test
It is now accepted that a variety of relationships, not just those of employer  and employee,
may be capable of giving rise to vicarious  liability. In Cox, Lord Reed  said:
The result [of the approach adopted by Lord Phillips in Various Claimants v Catholic Child  
Welfare Society [2012] UKSC 56; [2013] 2 AC 1] is that a relationship other than one of 
employment is in principle  capable of giving  rise to vicarious liability  where harm is wrongfully 
done by an individual who carries on activities as an integral part of the business activities 
carried on by a defendant and for its benefit (rather than his activities being entirely 
attributable to the conduct  of a recognisably  independent business of his own or of a third 
party), and where the commission of the wrongful act is a risk created by the defendant by 
assigning those activities to the individual in question.
I am satisfied  that Mr S carried on activities (giving  investment advice) as an integral part of the 
business activities carried  on by Wealthmasters   and, that he was carrying on such  activities in 
undertaking the activities that are the subject of this complaint. I say this because:
I consider that the provision of, and subsequent implementation  of, investment advice is an 
integral part of Wealthmasters  business.
It was Mr S job to give investment advice on Wealthmasters  behalf in accordance with his 
contract.
Mr S title referenced in Wealthmasters literature was Principal  Consultant.
Wealthmasters status as an authorised firm meant that it was not in breach of the general  
prohibition when it gave investment advice to members  of the public. So, when  Mr S gave 
investment advice on behalf of Wealthmasters,  carrying out Wealthmasters business 
activities, Mr S was not in breach of the general  prohibition either.
Mr S was given permission  by Wealthmasters to give investment  advice and it had appointed 
him to carry out the controlled function of CF1 Director and then CF30 Customer.
SUP 10A.10.7 defines  CF30 or the customer function as:
Ref: DRN142380527The customer function is the function of:
(1)advising on investments other than a non-investment insurance contract  (but not
this is advising on investments in the course of carrying on the activity  of giving  basic advice 
on a stakeholder product) and performing other functions related to this such  as dealing and 
arranging;
(2)giving advice to clients solely in connection with corporate finance business and performing 
other functions related  to this;
(3)giving advice or performing related activities in connection  with pension transfers,
pension conversions or pension opt-outs for retail clients;
(4)giving advice to a person to become,  or continue or cease to be, a member of a particular  
Lloyds syndicate;
(5)dealing, as principal or as agent,  and arranging  (bringing about) deals in investments other 
than a non-investment  insurance contract with, for, or in connection  with customers  where the 
dealing or arranging  deals is governed  by COBS 11 (Dealing and managing);
(6)in relation to bidding in emissions  auctions, acting as a bidders representative  within the 
meaning of subparagraph  3 of article 6(3) of the auction regulation.
I think  it is clear that Mr S was engaged to carry out activities that were  an integral part of 
Wealthmasters business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance as to when it considers a person to be carrying on a 
business in their own right,  set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although the guidance was published 
some time after the events  Mr P complains of took place, the relevant  parts of the legislation (in 
respect of permissions to give regulated financial advice) have  not changed  substantively. I therefore 
consider it appropriate for me to take into account the guidance in PERG,  which  says:
In practice,  a person is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the grounds that 
he is not carrying on his own business if he is an employee or performing a role very similar to 
an employee.
Wealthmasters clearly  intended Mr S to fall outside the general prohibition when acting on 
Wealthmasters behalf in giving and implementing investment advice. As I have said,  I consider that 
the only way in which  Mr S could have fallen outside the general prohibition   in relation to the 
investment advice complained about  would be on the basis that he was carrying on Wealthmasters 
business rather  than his own.  In my view,  the guidance therefore  provides support for the contention 
that Mr S relationship with Wealthmasters was very similar to employment  relationships.
I am also satisfied that Mr S activities were  not entirely  attributable to the conduct of a recognisably 
independent business his. As I have explained, I am satisfied that Mr S was acting on behalf of 
Wealthmasters when  undertaking the activities that are the subject of this complaint  in particular, 
when he advised  Mr P to encash his collective investment  account in order  to invest in Green Oil. Mr 
S did have  his own unregulated  business (which  appears to have provided promotional  material about  
Green Oil) but the activities  Mr P complains  about concern the giving of regulated investment advice  
and those activities  fall entirely within  Wealthmasters  business.
In allowing Mr S to give investment advice on its behalf, Wealthmasters was creating  the risk that he 
might make errors  or act negligently in doing  so. Wealthmasters assigned  to Mr S the customer facing 
task of giving regulated financial advice to Wealthmasters customers, and it is always possible for 
that task to be carried out negligently. I am therefore satisfied that the activities complained about  
were entirely attributable to Wealthmasters.
Ref: DRN142380528The stage two test
The stage two test asks whether the wrongdoers action is so closely connected with the business  
activities of his principal as to make  it just to hold the principal liable.
As Lord Dyson said in Mohamud,  the test requires a court  to make  an evaluative judgment in each 
case having regard to all the circumstances  and having regard to the assistance provided by previous 
decisions on the facts  of other cases. That is not a precise test, but the courts  have recognised the 
inevitability of imprecision given the infinite range  of circumstances where the issue of vicarious 
liability arises.
In the particular circumstances  of this complaint, I consider that it is just for Wealthmasters to be held 
responsible for the actions  Mr P complains about. I note:
I think Mr S gave Mr P investment advice, that activity  is closely linked  to the business  
activities of Wealthmasters,  a firm which  provided  investment advice to its customers 
(including Mr P).
If Wealthmasters is not vicariously liable here, then Mr Ps ability to obtain compensation  
would depend  on whether the investment adviser  he dealt with was an employee of 
Wealthmasters. In Cox, the court suggested it would have been  unreasonable and unfair for 
the claimants ability to receive compensation  for the injury she suffered  while working  in a 
prison kitchen  to depend  on whether  the worker who injured her was an employee or a 
prisoner. I consider  that argument has even more relevance here  at least  Mrs Cox is likely  
to have either known or had the ability  to find out who was an employee  and who was a 
prisoner. But Mr P had no way of knowing Mr S employment status.
Wealthmasters received no benefit from the acts Mr P complains about,  and in particular  it did 
not receive any commission. But as Lord Toulson explained in Mohamud,  vicarious liability 
can apply even where an employee  has abused his position in a way that cannot  possibly 
have been of benefit to his employer   such as carrying out a private fraud or assaulting a 
customer. In Frederick, the principal was found not to be vicariously  liable despite having 
received commission. The commission issue is not determinative.
I acknowledge that the conclusions  I have  reached are different to the conclusions reached
by the court in Frederick . In that case, the principal was found not to be vicariously liable for
the conduct of a named Mr Warren.
However, the facts  in Frederick are so different  to the facts here that I do not consider that
the same outcome is inevitable in this complaint. In particular, I note:
In Frederick, the claimants were  approached  by a Mr Qureshi  who was not a registered 
individual of the defendant. Mr Qureshi induced them to invest  in a property scheme, which 
he was running jointly with Mr Warren. The claimants  had no personal dealings with [Mr] 
Warren and did not meet  him or receive  any written communications from himthere was no 
semblance of an advice process. Here, Mr P had personal dealings with Mr S, 
Wealthmasters registered  individual.  He met with Mr S who provided  him with advice. Mr S 
carried out business activities of a type that had been specifically assigned  to him by 
Wealthmasters, and which  he could  only (lawfully) perform on behalf  of Wealthmasters.
Mr Warren submitted dishonest and fraudulent mortgage  applications for loans on behalf of 
the claimants. Mr P makes no allegation of fraud. He only complains  about  the suitability of 
the advice. Mr Ps allegation is one of negligence  and/or breach of statutory duty. He does not 
say as such that Mr S was dishonest.  There is therefore no need for me to consider whether 
Wealthmasters would  have been vicariously  liable for any dishonest acts by Mr S.
Mr Warren was only able to submit the mortgage applications  in the way he did because  he 
was an agent of the principal. But the claimants  in Frederick did not say they had suffer[ed] 
any loss through  the actual  re-mortgaging  or their receipt of monies from [the lender].  
Instead, they suffered  losses  only when  they handed the money over to Mr Warren  (or to the 
Ref: DRN142380529company of which Mr Warren and Mr Qureshi were directors). In contrast, Mr P says he 
suffered losses as a direct  result of the advice  given to him by Mr S, in his capacity as a 
Wealthmasters financial adviser, to surrender his collective investment account and invest in 
Green Oil.
What if the tests in Cox and Mohamud are not applicable to this complaint?
I recognise that a court might take the view that the specific tests set out in Cox and Mohamud are not 
applicable to Mr S, Wealthmasters, and the specific acts Mr P complains about.  The applicability of 
those tests to agency relationships is unclear, as is their applicability to some or all of the reliance-
based torts, possibly including  negligent  misstatement.
Even if those  specific tests  are not applied, I still consider that it would be appropriate for a court to 
consider whether Wealthmasters  is vicariously liable for the actions of Mr S. The earlier  cases, 
including Armagas and the Christian Brothers case [2012]  UKSC 56, make clear that justice is the 
courts overriding concern in such matters.  Where the claimant and the defendant are both innocent  
parties, the court will consider whether the circumstances under which  the wrongdoer committed  his 
wrong were such as to make  it just for the defendant to bear the loss.
Bearing in mind  the regulatory position, I consider that in the particular circumstances of this case it is 
just to require Wealthmasters to bear any loss caused by negligent investment  advice provided by Mr 
S.
From a public  policy point  of view, one of the purposes of FSMA was to make provisions for the 
protection of consumers. The approved person regime was one of the ways in which  both FSMA and 
the FSA gave  effect  to that protection. Mr S was a Wealthmasters approved person. In view of 
section 59(1) of FSMA, I consider that when Mr S carried out the regulated activity of advising on 
investments, and arranging deals in investments,  those activities  were the activities of Wealthmasters.  
Wealthmasters is clearly  responsible for its own activities. I see no support in FSMA   or anywhere 
else  for the belief that Wealthmasters  responsibility  for its approved  persons was dependent on the 
precise nature of its contracts with those people  (agency/non-agency). Similarly,  I do not see anything 
to suggest Wealthmasters responsibility depends on whether the approved persons  conduct is 
classified in terms  of one type of tort (reliance-based) or another. I would be surprised if a court  were  
to take the view that such  distinctions were relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
I therefore  consider  that Wealthmasters is vicariously liable for the acts Mr P complains  about  
regardless of whether  Mr S carried  out those acts with apparent authority on behalf of Wealthmasters. 
(However, as I have  said I consider  that Mr S did in fact act with Wealthmasters apparent authority 
when he carried out the acts complained of.)
Statutory responsibility under section  150 of FSMA
For the reasons  Ive give above, I am satisfied that when  Mr S gave the advice complained of, he was 
acting in his capacity  as Wealthmasters approved  person for the purpose of carrying on 
Wealthmasters regulated  business. He was not carrying on a business of his own.
That means Wealthmasters is subject to the Conduct of Business (COBS) suitability rules in respect 
of Mr S advice. If Mr S advice  was not suitable, then (subject to the recognised defences) 
Wealthmasters is responsible in damages  to Mr P under  the statutory  cause of action provided  by 
section 150 of FSMA. I therefore consider that section 150 of FSMA  provides an alternative route by 
which Wealthmasters is responsible for the acts complained of.
Summary of my provisional findings on jurisdiction
Having considered  all of the circumstances here, as well as the legal  authorities,  I am
provisionally satisfied that:
Ref: DRN142380530Wealthmasters represented to Mr P that Mr S had Wealthmasters authority to advise  on the 
encashment of his existing investment and the re-investment in Green Oil.
In addition  or in the alternative  Wealthmasters is vicariously liable for the acts Mr P 
complains about.
Wealthmasters also has statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA for the acts 
complained about.
I have found that Wealthmasters  is responsible  for the acts that are the subject of this complaint,  so I 
have gone on to consider the merits of the complaint. Even  if I am wrong about one or two of the 
above three conclusions, I still consider that the third means that Mr Ps complaint about 
Wealthmasters falls within  my jurisdiction.
My provisional findings on merits
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other  words, what  I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything  wrong in respect of the 
individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the business has done something 
wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by the 
complainant.
Suitability of the investment
Mr S has said in his statement, amongst other things that:
[Mr Ps first name] became  a client in 2008 having recently  been made redundant
from [name of his employer] and had started up his own business as a [details  of Mr
Ps work].
And
[Mr Ps first name] has built up a significant level of investment  knowledge and
experience during our discussions  over the years and in keeping with his attitude to
risk had built a varied portfolio and profited  from it as highlighted on page 27 with the
list of investments, including:-
Structured products
Investment/Unit Trusts
ISAs
And
[Mr Ps first name] was deemed  to of [sic] had a Realistic  attitude to risk for the
regulated investments at the time:-
An investor adopting this risk category would  like to preserve short term financial
security through low risk: investments, but also wish to benefit  from the prospect of
good long term returns from higher risk investment types, which may include  some
Ref: DRN142380531lower risk share/equity based investments.
Those funds  invested represented a small  portion  of the clients overall Net asset
value.

Clients would have been Risk Assessed at several occasions during the regulated
investments on risk profile questionnaires  due to the investment/retirement
objectives. Those funds invested represented a small portion of the clients overall
Net Asset Value.
During our meeting to specifically discuss Green Oil, [consumers first name] already
had the [Mr S unregulated firm] literature as mentioned previously including a guide
to alternatives, Risk Disclaimer, due diligence and the clear distinction  that the non
regulated introduction was by [Mr Ss unregulated  firm] was explained  and stressed.
This was the sole purpose of the meeting.
And
[Mr Ps first name], having  carried out enquiries  of his own, and in light of the amount to be 
invested as a percentage of his overall  assets was prepared to consider  the investment,  the 
risk [sic] were apparent to him as well as having been provided with copies of the Due 
Diligence that had been carried out. At no point was it guaranteed  as safe, the measures 
used to help protect his interest were explained regards ownership  of the land, the harvesting, 
the income streams  etc.
Any correspondence in respect of the Green  Oil application  processing would have been via 
[Mr Ss unregulated firm]. Correspondence from Wealthmasters  Financial Management Ltd 
after this point  referring to the above would have been to issue  a valuation of the clients 
overall assets which were  issued regularly.
Based on the evidence I have seen;  Mr P had limited investment experience. At the time of
the advice he had invested  in a couple of structured products and held ISAs  and the collective 
investment account  these were taken out on the advice  of Mr S and regularly reviewed by him. He 
also had a workplace pension  from a previous employer.  I am not convinced that this amounted to 
Mr P having significant investment experience or that it meant  he understood the risks involved with 
investing in a high risk unregulated esoteric investment.
Mr S also makes a number of references to this investment being a small part of a varied  portfolio. I 
disagree. At the beginning of 2011, it was recorded that Mr P had an income of £15,000 and his main 
residence was valued at £155,000  in terms of savings  and investments  he had:
ISA (this was moved to a structured capital  at risk product on the advice  of Mr S in February 
2011)  £12,152
Current account  £13,000
Structured  product  £11,100
Collective Investments  £22,262
So, he had just under  £60,000 in investments and savings (we do not have details  of his pension  
entitlement), that includes  his current account. £20,000 of that was invested in Green Oil. Looking  at 
Mr Ps circumstances I cannot agree with Mr Ss assessment  £20,000 was a small proportion of Mr 
Ps investable  assets.
By the time the Green Oil investment was made over half of Mr Ps investable  assets outside  of 
monies held in his current account were tied up in structured products and the rest was about to be 
put into a single unregulated  esoteric investment;  that is not what  I would consider to be a varied 
Ref: DRN142380532portfolio  nor is it one that I think was suitable for an individual with a relatively modest portfolio  and 
income.
Taking everything into account, I am satisfied that Mr S advice to encash Mr Ps collective investment 
account in order to invest in Green  Oil was not suitable. In light of Mr Ps circumstances, I think  that a 
cautious to moderate investment would  have  been  suitable for Mr P. I think this could have been 
achieved via Mr Ps existing  investment account  or by reinvestment via a different investment 
wrapper, so long as this did not result in Mr P incurring  additional fees unnecessarily. If Mr P had 
been given suitable  advice, I think  he would have listened to this.
Having found that Wealthmasters is responsible for the unsuitable advice, it is fair and reasonable 
that it compensate  Mr P in full for the losses he has suffered as a result of that advice. In addition to 
the financial loss that Mr P had suffered, I think that losing a large portion  of his investments has 
caused him a significant amount of distress  and upset.
In summary, I have found that:
On balance,  it is more likely than not, that Mr S did recommend that Mr P encash his 
collective investment  account in order to invest in Green Oil.
Despite the issues raised, Wealthmasters is responsible for that advice.
The advice was not suitable for Mr P in light of his circumstances.
In turn I think it is fair for Wealthmasters  to compensate Mr P for the financial  loss he has suffered. In 
addition, I think that the loss of a considerable amount of his savings would have caused  Mr P 
significant distress and that Wealthmasters  should compensate him for this.
Ref: DRN1423805