K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of Mr D that Standard Life Savings Limited (Standard Life)  failed  
to give adequate notification that a trade had not been processed,  resulting in a loss of profit.
background
Mr D held some shares in a Standard Life WRAP. He instructed Mr H to sell a set number of 
shares on his behalf.
Mr H placed an order online, in line with his usual practice.  A pop up came up and he 
assumed the sale had gone through. Three days later Mr H became aware that the trade 
had been rejected. He notified Mr D, but by this time the share price had dropped.  Mr D 
retained the shares but they have not yet reached  the same value.
It is said on Mr Ds behalf that Standard  Life failed  to provide adequate information  about the 
order failing; it was rare for a broker to reject a trade. It has been  suggested that the pop up 
should have been more  prominent and should have been followed up by an email.
Standard Life say that a quote was received  and sent to Mr H, acting for Mr D. But when the 
order was accepted, it was rejected immediately because trading on the instrument had 
temporarily stopped.  Standard Life have provided  records to show the rejection was issued 
within the same minute as the request to sell was placed. They  say the following pop up 
would have appeared on Mr Hs screen,  Your order has been rejected by our execution-only 
stockbroker. Please re-key your order. Standard Life further point out that no contract  note 
would have been received  and this would also have  indicated that the trade  had not gone 
through.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Standard Life hadnt  done anything 
wrong, the pop up gave  enough information to Mr H to explain that the sale hadnt gone  
through. Further there was a legitimate reason why the order was rejected.
Mr H, on behalf of Mr D, doesnt agree with the view. So the matter  has come  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about this matter  and I appreciate that Mr H was not expecting the 
trade to be rejected. But ultimately it was for Mr H to action the instructions given by Mr D 
and to check that the sale had completed. 
On balance, I prefer Standard Lifes account  that the trade wasnt  accepted because trading 
had been temporarily suspended. I consider it is more likely  than not that a pop up did state 
the trade had been rejected and I accept Standard Lifes  records which show this information 
was provided contemporaneously,  namely within the same  minute  of the order having been 
placed. I think there was enough information to be able to understand that the trade had 
been rejected  at the time.  Further the lack of a contract note would  also have indicated that 
the trade had not been successful. So I cant  fairly  say that Standard  Life did anything  wrong  
here.
Ref: DRN10362242Mr H believes  that Standard Life should take more steps to highlight that a trade  has been 
rejected, but our service has no disciplinary or regulatory role, so were not able to tell a 
business how to operate.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D, but for the reasons  given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1036224