K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about a series of administrative and customer  service  failings  by Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, in connection with a credit card he took out last year.
background
In November 2018 Mr G took out a credit card with Halifax. But despite the agreement 
showing his current address, his first statement in December  2018 was sent to a previous 
address. Mr G also complained that the bank  was using an out of date mobile phone number 
 now belonging  to his daughter  for text messages. 
Halifax explained that a system error  had resulted  in old contact details  being  used. It 
apologised for its mistake and paid Mr G £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Also in December, Mr G made a manual payment to clear his account balance. Mr G says 
he was told that his direct debit payment  would  be suspended. But on 4 January 2019, the 
outstanding balance was taken by direct debit. Mr G explained that, although  there was no 
immediate financial impact on the account, he was distressed by what mightve  happened  
had he had insufficient funds to cover  the second payment. And he was out of pocket and 
inconvenienced by time taken making calls to Halifax and his bank to recoup the second 
payment through the direct debit guarantee scheme.   
Halifax accepted  it had made  a mistake and paid Mr G £100 for the inconvenience caused.  It 
also paid him £24 to cover the cost of calls. 
In the process  of sorting  out the problem  with the January  direct  debit, Mr G spoke to one 
call handler  C  and was unhappy that C wouldnt talk to him about the problems he was 
having and that his called was terminated.
Halifax didnt uphold  this part of Mr Gs complaint  as they felt C had dealt with Mr G politely 
and had explained he was ending the call because  other staff were  dealing with the 
complaint.  
Mr G wasnt happy with the responses  he received  from Halifax so he referred  his complaint 
to us. One of our investigators looked  into things for him. She agreed that the level of service 
hed received had fallen  short of expected  standards. But overall, she thought  the 
compensation paid to Mr G was fair and reasonable. So she didnt ask Halifax to do anything 
more. 
Mr G disagreed. He didnt think wed acknowledged the time taken and stress caused by the 
problems hed had, or addressed the fact that his personal data was sent to a previous 
address. He asked  for an ombudsman to look at his complaint and issue  a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Halifax  
needs to do anything else to put things right. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused by the problems 
Mr Gs had with Halifax. I do appreciate that sending his information to the wrong address 
Ref: DRN16829722will have caused stress and worry. I also accept that Mr G has been  further  inconvenienced 
by the problems with his December payment going through via direct debit when it shouldnt 
have. And as part of that inconvenience, hes had to spend time dealing  with Halifax and his 
bank to get things sorted out.
Regrettably, mistakes  happen, but Im pleased to see that Halifax has acknowledged where 
it thinks there were failings and tried to put things  right at an early opportunity. 
Unfortunately, although  Halifax was able to listen to the call with C before responding to 
Mr Gs complaint, the call was no longer accessible when  our investigator requested 
information from the bank. Ive listened  to a related  call with another  adviser, made whilst 
Mr G was trying to recover his money  through  the direct debit guarantee. Mr G was 
understandably frustrated by whatd happened. So I can appreciate that being unable to 
pursue matters with C and having a call ended wouldve been upsetting. 
This was a series of issues that was clearly distressing and frustrating  for Mr G. I appreciate 
that he was worried  about possible consequences of the data failings and what mightve 
happened had he not had enough money in his account to accommodate the December 
direct debit payment  taken in error. But, aside  from the worry and inconvenience, it doesnt 
appear theres been any additional harm resulting from the data failings.  And I wouldnt 
expect a business to compensate for losses that havent happened. 
So overall, I think the compensation and call costs already paid by Halifax are fair in all the 
circumstances. I wont  be asking Halifax to do anything  more to put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Jo Chilvers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1682972