K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Amtrust Europe  Limited unfairly declined their claim  made under 
their legal expenses  insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust,  this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
For ease of reading Ill mostly refer to just Mrs P. 
background
In 2011 Mr and Mrs P were in dispute with a company in relation to the building  of a 
conservatory at their home. They took steps  to negotiate and mediate a solution, but by 
2013 it became  clear  that this wouldnt be possible.
In 2013 Mrs P sought legal advice and a solicitor recommended they contact their home  
insurer to see if they had cover for legal expenses. Mrs Ps policy  did provide cover for 
certain legal  expenses and was provided  by Amtrust. 
But when she called  to speak about  this she was told that there wasnt any cover available 
as they hadnt made the claim within 90 days of the start of the dispute. Amtrust highlighted 
part of the policy document  to support their decision.
In 2018 Mrs P got back in touch with Amtrust, the dispute had been  ongoing  and she wanted 
to clarify the reasons for her claim being declined in 2013. Amtrust again  explained  the 
relevant policy  term. Mrs P said shed acted  reasonably by trying to resolve things without 
the need for legal action, she was unhappy  with Amtrusts decision and brought  her 
complaint to our service. 
Whilst the complaint  was with our service  Amtrust  highlighted  an additional exclusion to the 
policy, this states that disputes relating to building work are excluded from cover. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  
He concluded  that Mrs P had made  her claim outside the required 90 day period. But he 
didnt think it was fair for Amtrust to rely on that term to decline  the claim, unless they could 
show their position  had been  prejudiced. But overall, he didnt think Amtrust needed to take 
any action as the claim could fairly be declined on the second exclusion which related to 
disputes about building work. 
Our investigator recommended that Amtrust  should pay Mrs P £100  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience caused through some of the service theyd given. And through 
not fully explaining the reasons  for the claim being declined. Both Amtrust and Mrs P 
disagreed and both asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I agreed with much  of what our investigator  had said. But I didnt think Amtrust needed to 
pay any compensation. So I got in touch with both parties  and explained that as the claim 
had never  been  accepted, I didnt think Amtrust using a different policy term had caused 
distress and inconvenience. And whilst  I acknowledged one of the phone calls they had with 
Mrs P couldve gone better, I wasnt persuaded that the service was so poor as to justify  
compensation.
Ref: DRN18822752Amtrust responded  and said they had nothing further to add. Mrs P responded and still 
disagreed her claim had been fairly  declined. She also felt that compensation was due 
particularly in view of the effort she had to go to in making her complaint. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from the findings Ive previously set out. I understand  this will be disappointing  for 
Mrs P, so let me explain why. 
Mrs Ps policy says There is no cover in respect of Claims notified  to Us more than 90 
days after the insured event.  A specific  definition  of Insured Event is given as The incident  
or the start date of a transaction or series  of incidents which may lead to a claim 
By Mrs Ps own evidence, the dispute she was involved in had been ongoing for more  than 
90 days before Amtrust  were notified of the claim. So I agree that this policy  term applies.  
But I also agree  with our investigator that it would  only be fair for Amtrust to decline the claim 
solely on the basis of this term if they can show their position has been prejudiced as a result 
of not being involved sooner. 
But there is a further policy term which says There  is no cover in respect ofClaims arising 
from or relating tothe  construction  of or structural alteration to buildings or parts  of 
buildings. In their submissions to our service Amtrust say this exclusion also applies.  I dont  
think this policy term is unclear or ambiguous.  
Mrs P says her dispute is about a proposed alteration to a contract, so she doesnt think  the 
exclusion applies. But Mrs Ps contract  dispute  arises from the construction of a 
conservatory and so I think it is fair for Amtrust to rely on this policy term to decline the claim. 
So I dont  think Amtrust need  to take any further  action  in relation to the claim itself. 
There is further dispute about the impact of Amtrust  only relying on the 90 day term to 
decline the term and not raising the second exclusion until our service was involved. I 
wouldnt necessarily expect an insurer to list all the policy terms and exclusions  that apply 
when declining  a claim. But I think the term about building work  is clearly applicable and it 
wouldve been good practice  for Amtrust to have also made reference to it to further explain 
their decision  to Mrs P.
Where a business makes  a mistake, I expect them to as far as is possible to put their 
customer back in the position they wouldve been  in, had the mistake  not happened.  So if I 
take Amtrust not providing a fuller explanation  to be a mistake, I have  to look at what would 
have happened, were  it not for that error. 
In the circumstances of this complaint,  Im not persuaded  it wouldve made any difference. 
Had Amtrust  also listed the building work exclusion when initially declining the claim, the 
result would have  been  the same. Amtrust  never accepted the claim, so this isnt a situation 
where Mrs P had her expectations raised.  
Ref: DRN18822753Ive also listened  to some of the calls between Mrs P and Amtrust. In one of those calls, the 
call handler couldve done a better  job of explaining the 90 day policy term. But I dont think 
the service provided  was so poor that compensation needs  to be paid.
Mrs P says that there  was considerable work in trying to establish who the underwriter 
responsible for this complaint was. She also points  out there were many  calls with Amtrust  
not just the one referred to. Ive considered  this, but I think  there is always going to be an 
amount of effort involved in bringing  a complaint. And on the evidence Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded that there were  significant service failings by Amtrust or that compensation needs 
to be paid. 
I understand that going through a protracted legal dispute is always going to be a very 
distressing experience and I dont underestimate the impact of this on Mrs P and her health. 
But I can only make  directions in relation to the actions of Amtrust. And I dont think theyve 
acted outside  the policy terms or unfairly.  So Im not directing  them to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1882275