K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained about the provider of her furniture warranty, Society of Lloyds (SOL). 
It declined her claim for stained and chipped dining chairs.
background
Mrs S purchased a dining table and six chairs along with a warranty  that offered cover  
against single incidents of staining and damage. In September 2018 she made a claim to 
SOL. It sent two assessors  to Mrs Ss home. They both reported excessive and overlapping 
staining (estimated  50 stains across six chair seats). The second assessor noted various 
dents, chips and scratches in the wooden parts of the chairs. He said the wood underneath 
didnt look as if it had been freshly revealed.  Both conclude  damage had occurred over time. 
The claim was declined.  When SOL reviewed  that decision following Mrs S complaining  to it, 
it felt that decision  was fair. Mrs S complained to this service.
Our investigator said given the expert  reports  and the policy wording, he felt the decision to 
decline the claim had been fair. Mrs S disagreed. She said the assessors were, of course, 
going to find in favour of SOL. She said you couldnt tell from photos  how or when things like 
stains had occurred. Mrs S said shed definitely reported things to SOL in time as everything 
had happened  in just five or six incidents.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs S but Im not upholding her complaint as I think the claim was 
fairly declined. The policy doesnt offer cover in the event of damage occurring over time, 
across different incidents. The assessors felt this is what had happened.  Whilst they are 
working for SOL they are the only experts  who have given an opinion.  Ive considered what  
theyve said against  the photos  provided and their comments seem reasonable.
The experts explained that some  stains overlap. That is indicative of them  having occurred 
during different incidents. The second expert  explained that the revealed wood where chips  
etc had occurred,  didnt look new. I think it is possible  to identify and differentiate  between  
newly exposed wood  and that which has been laid bare and open to the world  around it for 
some time. 
Importantly, as well as the experts opinions, Mrs S herself says this damage all happened  in 
five or six incidents. Whether that is a conservative estimate or not, it still shows that there  
wasnt just one spillage  or accident  following which Mrs S reported the damage to SOL.
If Mrs S had reported the first instance  when damage had occurred then SOL would have 
been able to deal with that  even if multiple  stains had occurred during the one incident.  But 
she didnt, and it is the build-up  of damage over time that is the difficulty. Its reached the 
stage now that even if Mrs S were  able to say which damage  occurred  during  that first event, 
the later damage/stains would likely prevent SOL from being able to resolve that damage. 
Further, as SOL would  have  no liability for the other,  later damage,  any work it did do would 
have little overall effect on the look of the chairs. So I can understand why SOL has declined  
the claim in its entirety.
Ref: DRN14522782my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1452278