K820x#14complaint
Mr E is unhappy about the problems hed suffered with the car hed acquired via a hire 
purchase agreement  with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) following 
it receiving a software update. Mr E says the redress offered by MBFS wasnt  sufficient.
background 
In August  2016  Mr E entered into a four year hire purchase agreement  with MBFS for a new 
car. The car is considered to be a luxury performance car. 
In December 2017 the car was recalled  for a software update. But after the software was 
installed Mr E complained that the driving  performance of the car was poor.  He took the car 
to the dealership in January 2018  for the car to be examined. The dealership said it couldnt  
find any fault with the car. 
In April 2018 Mr E again reported the cars performance was poor.  The car was tested and 
work carried out to the strut and offside front shocker. But Mr E remained unhappy at the 
cars performance.
In May 2018  Mr E complained to MBFS as he was unhappy that the dealership wouldnt 
investigate the car further despite  his concerns  about how the car was driving. 
MBFS liaised with the manufacturers technical  team to obtain  advice as to how to 
investigate the matter further. 
In June 2018 the car broke down and was repaired at the roadside.  The fault was attributed 
to the EML limp mode and following the repair this issue hasnt reoccurred. 
In July 2018 Mr E was asked to take the car in for it to be tested against  a comparable car. 
Mr E was informed that the manufacturer had issued a new software  update for the car. This 
software update  was completed and the nearside front strut was replaced. Mr E reported 
that the cars  driving performance  had improved and no further problems  have arisen. 
MBFS agreed that Mr E hadnt received an acceptable service  from the dealership and that 
his cars  performance  had been affected from December 2017 until July 2018.  Taking into 
account his overall  experience MBFS offered as a gesture of goodwill 15% of the payments 
hed made  from December 2017 for the nine month  period  which it took to get the matter  
resolved for the loss of enjoyment of the car together  with £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience and distress caused. This made a total payment of £1385.68. 
Mr E was unhappy at the offer as he felt it didnt  adequately compensate  him for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused to him. He complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Es complaint  should  be upheld.  She said that 
although the investigation into the issue with the car had been  long and frustrating for Mr E 
she thought MBFS  had acted fairly in the gesture  it had made to Mr E. 
The adjudicator said she appreciated that the car had been into the garage four times but Mr 
E had been  provided with a courtesy car during  those periods. And although the car wasnt 
of the same  spec the refund of 15% of the monthly  payments had recognised  that as well as 
the loss of enjoyment of driving the car for the nine month period it had taken to rectify  the 
Ref: DRN12170082issue. The additional  £250 payment had recognised the distress  and inconvenience caused 
by the length of time it had taken  for Mr Es complaint to be resolved.
Mr E disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said that MBFS had told him it would raise  a 
complaint against  the dealership and the manufacturers technical team  on his behalf  but 
hadnt done so. He believed the dealership and technical team hadnt been open  about the 
issues the car had suffered following the first update. 
Mr E said that for nine months the performance and safety of the car had been seriously 
compromised. A fair settlement would be for MBFS to reimburse him a proportion of the 
original deposit  together  with 50% of the monthly  payments made  over that nine month 
period.
As the parties didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS has agreed that the service provided by the dealership  to Mr E over this matter  wasnt  
acceptable. Mr E says there was a lack of transparency  about the fault his car developed 
and about the eventual  resolution with the new software update.  He requested  the technical 
reports for his car but MBFS says these  werent created as the updates were correctly 
installed.    
Ive seen that MBFS didnt pursue raising  a complaint with the dealership and the technical  
team on Mr Es behalf.  It says it considered it had offered a fair settlement for Mr Es 
complaint and so closed  his complaint. MBFS says Mr E can complain directly  if he wishes 
to do so.  
I dont think MBFSs response  to its failure  to raise the complaint on Mr Es behalf is 
unreasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate Mr E had thought  MBFS would start the 
complaint process  for him but it would be more  straight forward for him to do so directly. It 
was reasonable  that MBFS had considered his complaint closed once it had paid Mr E the 
settlement.
I appreciate Mr Es enjoyment  of his car was spoiled for a number  of months.  Trying  to get 
this matter resolved  has resulted in him suffering unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
The car was in the garage four times. The longest period the car was being  examined for 
was 16 days.  Mr E was always  provided  with a courtesy car though this wasnt of the same 
spec and wasnt the luxury performance car Mr E had chosen.
MBFS says it calculated  the 15% reimbursement  of the monthly payments based on the 
lower spec courtesy car and that for the remaining time he had full use of the car although 
his driving experience was disappointing.  Mr E has said the car wasnt  driven  as much due 
to his concerns  over its safety.
Ive seen that during the period December 2017 and July 2018  Mr E had driven around 
4,000 miles. However, looking at the previous mileage recorded  in December 2017 when the 
car received the first software update I dont think Mr Es usage  of the car was particularly 
impacted, although  I accept Mr Es actual driving experience wasnt as enjoyable.
Ref: DRN12170083I think MBFS reimbursement of the proportion of the monthly payments is a fair approach. 
Mr E says that a 50% repayment would be fair but taking into account that he was able to 
use the car and, when  it wasnt  available and was provided with a courtesy car I think that 
percentage is too high. I think the 15% calculated by MBFS is reasonable for the loss of 
enjoyment for that period.
Mr E has requested that he receives a proportion of the deposit back. He has calculated that 
£1125 would  be fair as this represents 9/48th  of the deposit hed paid.  This calculation 
reflects the nine months it took for the issue to resolved,  and that the agreement was for 48 
months. However I think that figure  is excessive  looking at the impact  this matter has had on 
Mr E. I appreciate that this has been  a frustrating and upsetting experience but I think  the 
£250 figure is fair and reasonable for the additional  distress caused on top of his loss of 
enjoyment.
 
So I think MBFS has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it has dealt with Mr Es 
complaint. I understand that it has already paid the compensation to Mr E so Im not asking it 
to do more and Im not upholding  Mr Es complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1217008