K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with a claim made under the mobile phone  insurance policy  he has with 
Asurion Europe  Limited (Asurion). 
background
Mr T damaged his phone  so made  a claim under  his mobile  phone  insurance policy in 
March 2019. He wanted the phone to be repaired as the phone  held photos of sentimental  
value. Asurion accepted the claim but under the policy Mr T has, it doesnt  repair  phones   
it provides a replacement.  
Mr T has found  an independent third party  that has said its able to repair the phone so the 
data on the phone is not deleted  so Mr T will be able to keep on to the photos he doesnt 
want to lose. Mr T asked  Asurion to pay for this repair  to the value of £300.  Asurion  has 
not agreed and Mr T is unhappy with this.
Mr T is also unhappy with the way the claim has been handled  and the time it has taken. 
Hes unhappy his phone still has not been repaired  and hes been without a phone  since  
March 2019  which in turn has caused him a lot of inconvenience. He has raised  a 
complaint with the executive team at Asurion but hes unhappy  he has been  ignored. 
Mr T also feels the mobile phone insurance  policy was mis-sold.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. As Mr T didnt agree the complaint  has now 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive separated the complaint points  and Ill address them in turn. 
Mr Ts claim
Mr T made a claim on 3 March 2019 for accidental damage when his screen was cracked 
after he dropped  his phone. Under  the terms and conditions, if Mr T has damaged his phone  
Asurion would provide a replacement phone.  It also says  
As soon as you receive your replacement  device, the original claimed-for  device (the faulty 
or damaged device  or the lost or stolen device, if later recovered), becomes the property of 
the Insurer and must  be returned to us within 15 days.
Mr T didnt  want  to return the phone as he wanted to keep the photos on it. I do appreciate 
the sentimental value  of the photos Mr T has on his phone. And I understand the importance 
of wanting to keep a hold of them. 
But the agreement  Mr T entered into with Asurion wasnt one where  Asurion would repair a 
damaged phone. And as Ive explained,  part of the agreement  is that if Asurion replaces a 
phone, the original phone becomes  its property. So all Asurion had agreed to do, in return 
for the premiums Mr T paid, is replace Mr Ts phone if it was damaged.  And itll only do that if 
he returns the damaged  phone. 
Ref: DRN29207922Asurion has accepted the claim and it was on track to send Mr T a replacement phone  in 
March 2019. But as Mr T wasnt prepared to return the damaged  phone, it hasnt done so, 
which I think is reasonable. I appreciate this means  Mr T has been without a phone  since 
March 2019 but I dont  think this is because of anything Asurion has done wrong.
So taking everything in to account,  I dont think Asurion has done  anything wrong by not 
repairing the phone or paying  for an independent third party repair. 
Asurion has now cancelled Mr Ts mobile  phone insurance policy.  But it has confirmed, as 
this claim was made while the policy was still in place it would still consider it. So to clarify, if 
Mr T wants to continue  with the claim, he can do so. 
Mr Ts communication  with the executive team
I understand Mr Ts representative has contacted  Asurions executive team as shes been 
unhappy with Asurions outcome on his complaint. Shes unhappy her calls and emails have 
been ignored and unacknowledged. 
The rules, which set out what I can look into, dont  include complaint handling by a business.  And 
the way a financial business has communicated  (or not communicated)  with a consumer is not 
something that would  I could consider.  So Im unable  to look in to this aspect  of Mr Ts complaint. 
Mr Ts complaint about the mis-sale of the mobile  phone insurance
Mr Ts representative  has said in her correspondence that Mr T was mis-sold the mobile  
phone insurance  policy. However, Asurion didnt  sell the policy  to Mr T. So it isnt able to 
comment on the sale of the policy or provide any information about what  happened when it 
was sold. Mr T will therefore  need  to complain to the business who sold the policy separately 
about any concerns  he has about the sale.
 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Asurion has done anything  wrong.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2920792