K820x#14complaint
Ms H, represented by Mr D, says that Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance Limited didnt provide 
a fair cash  settlement for damage sustained to their belongings  during a house removal.
background
Ms H and Mr D were  moving home in July 2018. Beforehand they contacted Lloyds  to clarify 
whether or not Ms Hs insurance policy would cover their contents during their house 
removal. They were told that, subject to certain  conditions, it would.
Unfortunately there were  problems with the move and Ms H needed  to make a claim  on her 
policy after some of her belongings were damaged. But when  Ms H and Mr D contacted  
Lloyds they were told there wasnt cover for accidental  damage.  
After Ms H and Mr D complained, Lloyds  realised it had been responsible for giving them  the 
wrong advice about Ms Hs policy cover.  It had prejudiced their position and so it decided  the 
right thing to do would be to meet the cost of the claim, as if insurance had been  in place.
After some to and fro between Ms H, Mr D and Lloyds about the value of the items that had 
been damaged,  in November 2018  a payment of around £9,600 was issued in respect  of the 
claim.
Ms H and Mr D had a number of concerns about what  had happened.  In particular they say 
Lloyds undervalued three of the damaged items. They also feel the way Ms Hs claim was 
dealt with was poor.  
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Ms H disagreed, so her complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Ms H and Mr Ds complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
Although Ms H didnt  have insurance  cover for accidental damage, thats because Lloyds 
gave her incorrect advice.  If it had got things right then Ms H wouldve had cover for her 
belongings. I can see it said sorry and made  a small payment in recognition of its mistake. It 
was also right that Lloyds  stepped into to provide cover. So, I think  the way it dealt with this 
original issue was satisfactory. The focus of this decision  is about what happened next.
Firstly, I thought it would be helpful to outline  a couple of important  principles about  the way 
insurance should work.
Contents insurance is generally  a policy of indemnity. That means the aim is to put the 
policyholder back  in the position they were  in just before  the loss or damage happened. 
Taken literally, that means putting  them  back in the exact same position. The insurer should  
try to do that. But sometimes its simply not possible.  In these cases a reasonable settlement 
can be one that puts the policyholder into a broadly similar  position  to the one they were  in. 
Ref: DRN28591272But I dont expect Lloyds  to pay for things where this would mean Ms H and Mr D receive 
betterment. By that I mean they end up in a better  position than they were  prior to the loss or 
damage  because that would go beyond indemnifying them and would give them more than 
an insurance policy strictly entitles them to.
Lloyds agreed  to meet Ms Hs claim. Typical of how insurers work, the policy  allowed it to 
choose how to do that. There were  three  main alternatives: repairing the damage; replacing 
the damaged  items; or paying cash to cover  the cost of repair  or replacement.  In this case  
Lloyds decided to settle the claim with a full and final cash payment of around £9,600  in 
November 2018.  This comprised  a mix of valuations  for what it thought it would  cost Ms H to 
repair or replace  the various  damaged  items.
I can see that Mr D contested the cash settlement  when it was proposed  and before it was 
paid. I can also see that even when he called to accept  payment, he made clear he saw the 
payment as interim and that he wanted a further review of the valuation of three items in 
particular. Ill now consider the position  for each of these disputed items.
the sofas 
Ms H has a cream Italian leather lounge suite which was passed down to her through  her 
family. It comprises  an L shaped  three seater and corner sofa and a separate  two seater 
sofa. Although  several years old, Mr D told us it had recently been renovated. He said the 
renovator had commented that it was well worth the hundreds of pounds paid to have the 
refilling done because of the quality of the suite. 
Lloyds appointed a personal  claims consultant  to help with Ms Hs claim. I can see from the 
case notes there were discussions about  whether  certain items could be restored or would 
have to be replaced. Mr D feels Lloyds pushed the restoration route and that it took up a lot 
of time getting the estimate. But from what Ive seen I think Lloyds made clear to Ms H and 
Mr D that it would choose the most  cost effective  route to put them back in the position they 
were in before they moved. 
I note that it was initially the policyholders preference for the suite to be replaced. But Lloyds 
wanted to understand how much it would cost to repair. Positions changed  over time. By 
October 2018 Mr D had obtained  an estimate  for restoration costs from an upholsterer. This 
came to about £6,400. Lloyds thought it would be more economic to identify an equivalent 
replacement, which provided a reasonable match. It researched the cost and made an offer 
of about £4,000.
I note that Lloyds made contact with the upholsterer who had provided Mr D with the quote 
to restore the suite. The case notes record that it assessed the sofas  were not top of the 
range. Just to make  it clear to Mr D, Ive not seen  any reference to anyone  saying the 
furniture was of poor,  cheap quality, as he felt had been  alleged.  
I can also see the upholsterer informed Lloyds that its charges would be more than a high 
street supplier because  it would have to buy in the hides. And that restoration of the suite 
would cost more  than its current equivalent replacement value.  
While I recognise what  Ms H and Mr D feel about the quality of the existing lounge suite, 
based on the upholsterers advice, I dont  think Lloyds has acted unreasonably.  It wouldnt 
be fair for me to direct it to have their sofas renovated because the cost would be in excess  
of its replacement value.
Ref: DRN28591273Mr D has acknowledged its difficult to find something of similar style nowadays. I suppose 
its inevitable that preferences and designs  change.  But I do think  Lloyds have made  a fair 
attempt to research  the cost of furniture that would be reasonably  equivalent.
the coffee table
The next item where there was a dispute about the valuation was with regard to a black  
Italian high gloss finish coffee table. Ms H and Mr D said this had cost £1,100 about ten 
years ago. They asked  a furniture restorer  to assess how much it would cost to repair  the 
chip sustained during the move. He said the table was beyond  economic repair.
Lloyds made  contact with the restorer for a fuller explanation. He explained that a localised 
repair to the chip would  show up and that the whole table would need to be dipped  as part 
of the restoration  process to obtain  a consistent  finish. He didnt have those facilities and he 
didnt know what the replacement value would be.
Lloyds then sought the advice of one of its own suppliers. It described the table and the 
damage and asked for a second opinion.  Based  on the information it was provided, the firm 
confirmed it had its own dipping facility and was confident that a successful restoration could 
be achieved, and easily within a budget  of £650.  
On balance, Im satisfied that Lloyds offer was fair. But a further issue  has emerged in 
relation to the table. When Mr D responded to the investigators view he mentioned that the 
coffee table was part of a matching set. He said that one of the reasons  the restorer  thought  
it was beyond economic  repair was because  he couldnt guarantee a match after restoration.
So before the damage, Ms H and Mr D say they had a fully matching set of tables  and now 
they dont. In that situation, even if an insurance  policy specifically only covers damaged  
items, we think a compromise can be the fair and pragmatic way forward. Some 
compensation might be appropriate for loss of match. 
I cant see that the issue of matching sets has been  raised previously, for example in the 
loss list, in descriptions of the table or in the detailed  case file notes.  I cant see Lloyds or its 
advisers have had an opportunity to respond to this point either.
It maybe that restoration would result in no issues of mismatch with the remaining tables. It 
may be that the damaged  table could be restored to a high standard  and yet there could be 
a matching problem.  So Ms H and Mr D may want to make  a new claim and substantiate 
what theyve said about matching tables.  Lloyds would then have an opportunity to consider 
this aspect of the claim, including seeking advice from its supplier based on fuller 
descriptions and photographs of all the tables. 
If an effective  restoration  is feasible, while maintaining a match with the rest of the set of 
tables, then Lloyds  could arrange for the work  to be done once Ms H and Mr D have 
returned the £650. Of course, it would be possible for them  to keep this element of the cash  
settlement and arrange for the repairs themselves. 
If Lloyds supplier doesnt think restoration could  be done while maintaining a match with the 
whole set of tables, then Lloyds will want to consider whether it should make  an appropriate 
supplementary payment  to reflect  that loss of match.  
Ref: DRN28591274Of course its initially a matter for Ms H to make  such a claim, and then for Lloyds to validate 
and respond to the claim in the normal way. Hopefully an amicable outcome will be achieved 
without the need for the further involvement of this Service.  
The palm  trees
The final item in dispute is a set of artificial palm  trees. Ms H and Mr D say they shouldve 
made a claim for four trees, although they accept  the claim form submitted only identifies 
three. The only photos Ive seen of the trees also only show  three trees. I assume  had there 
been evidence  of more trees this wouldve been  submitted by now, so Ill work on the basis 
of the original claim.
Lloyds have offered  £417 (£139 each)  as the replacement cost for the trees.  It had 
researched alternatives  online. Mr D told us couldnt  find any trees  online that are remotely  
the same. He thinks Lloyds valuation is too low and based on smaller and inferior  product. 
But Mr D hasnt provided evidence to support his assertion. He hasnt been able to produce  
documentation from the original purchase or identify  more  suitable replacements.
So, based  on what Ive seen, including the photos  associated with the claim and alternatives 
available online,  although not based  on an exact  match I think the settlement Lloyds 
provided for the palm trees is reasonable. 
handling of the claim
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint, Ill think  about whether it's fair to award  
compensation for trouble  and upset. This isn't intended  to fine or punish a business   which  
is the job of the regulator. But when something's gone wrong, a business's  recognition  of the 
emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Theres agreement Lloyds  didnt  provide  the service to Ms H that it shouldve done at the 
outset when it gave  her the wrong  advice about  the cover she had. But it said sorry for that 
and made  a small payment in compensation. And it agreed to consider the claim.  What I 
need to think about is what happened after that.
We're all inconvenienced occasionally  in our day-to-day lives, including in our dealings  with 
other people, businesses and organisations. For me to award compensation, I need to 
decide what the impact  of Lloyds actions was. Thats separate from the trouble and upset 
caused by the original  event itself, the consequences  of what the policyholders did or didnt 
do and their situation. These things were beyond Lloyds control.
I recognise moving home is in itself stressful. So when Ms H and Mr D found that many of 
their possessions had been damaged I can see this wouldve been very upsetting - more so 
because some of the items were heirlooms and irreplaceable. I can also see that during the 
claims process Mr D became very ill, and this made things even more  difficult  to cope  with. 
So I can see the position they were  in was tough  - but I dont think this situation is Lloyds 
fault.
Ref: DRN28591275Ms H made her claim in July 2018 and it was four months before they received a cash 
settlement. I can see there  were  some delays at Lloyds,  for example when the personal  
claims consultant was on holiday. But actually  they were responsible for some of the delays, 
for example in terms of the time it took to submit the detailed schedule  of losses; the 
unpacking of all their belongings  to check for breakages; and in the to and fro of negotiations 
around settling. 
I want to be clear, Im not being critical of Ms H and Mr D here. The time they took was 
necessary for them to sort matters  out properly and these things are not unusual when 
making a claim. But neither would it be fair for me to hold Lloyds responsible for not moving  
things along in much quicker time.  
So, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. Lloyds doesnt need to do anything  more in relation 
to the original claim. But as Ive pointed out, there  may be an issue  in relation to the 
damaged table, which Mr D has now said was part of a matching set. Ms H will want  to 
consider making  a supplementary claim, giving Lloyds the opportunity  to consider this matter 
properly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2859127