K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complained that she was given unsuitable  advice by Legacy Private Wealth  Limited 
when she transferred the preserved benefits she held in a former employers occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS) to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP).
She says that the transfer should  have been  arranged as a buddy transfer so that she could 
retain the option of taking benefits at 50 (and not 55).
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below. I said that I intended to uphold  the complaint and explained why. Legacy Wealth said 
it had no comments to make.
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said, in summary;
Legacy Wealth had been negligent.  She was not informed  of the possibility  of using 
the buddy arrangement.
Whilst there has been no loss, her work  has been intermittent and she has been  
forced to use her savings as she cannot access her pension. This has caused her 
stress.
Legacy Wealth reiterated that it had not been  Mrs Ms intention  to retire before 55.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive decided not to 
change my provisional conclusions. I uphold the complaint but I think  the offer Legacy 
Wealth made was fair so I dont make any additional  award.
I agree  that Mrs M should have been  advised of the option of the buddy arrangement which 
would have secured her right to access her pension from fifty years of age. But as she 
accepts, she has not suffered  any direct loss a result of not being able to access  the pension  
funds. She has had to use other funds but that does not mean  there is a loss. 
I fully accept that the lack of the option  to access the pension funds will have caused 
frustration and stress but I think the offer of £10,000  is fair compensation for that.
So I dont  make any further award.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Legacy  Private Wealth Limited. It must pay Mrs M £10,000. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28969322extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M complained that she was given unsuitable advice  by Legacy Private Wealth Limited when she 
transferred the preserved  benefits she held in a former employers occupational pension scheme  
(OPS) to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP).
She says that the transfer should  have been arranged  as a buddy  transfer  so that she could retain 
the option  of taking benefits at 50 (and not 55).
background
Mrs M was a member  of an OPS for approximately 23 years until she left the employer in     2013.  
After leaving employment  Mrs M began studies with an aim of achieving professional qualifications  in 
a new discipline. 
She met with Legacy  to discuss her retirement options. It was noted  that Mrs M wanted the option of 
being allowed  access to her pension  from the age of 50 as she had no income from teaching and 
would be studying.  A suitability report confirmed  that the only income that she was receiving was 
investment income from a second property  which would not be sufficient to live on.
The OPS scheme had a facility to protect  existing members allowing  them  to draw pension benefits  
from age 50. For those  members that had transferred their pension this could be available  under the 
Buddy Scheme  with an actuarial reduction.
Following advice from Legacy in September 2016, Mrs M agreed to transfer her pension to a SIPP. 
The amount transferred  across from the OPS to the SIPP was approximately £350,000.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into this complaint  and recommended it should be upheld. He said:
Mrs M shouldnt have  been advised to transfer her OPS. The discount rates published since 
the industry wide pension review gave an indication  that, with fourteen years  to retirement, a 
growth rate of 5.2% would be needed. Shed  have needed an additional  growth of 0.7% in 
order to simply  match the benefits given up in the OPS  transfer.
No calculations had been provided for if the benefits were to be taken  at age 50 from the OPS 
and then compared to the SIPP using  the buddy basis.  
Mrs M needed to be shown the comparison  at age 50 as she had no earned income from 
teaching.
Legacy did not agree.  It questioned why the adjudicator  had considered  the wider suitability  of the 
transfer rather  than limiting  the investigation to the specific  complaint that had been made. It also said 
Mrs M was aware of the risks involved but intended to carry  on working after her studying. It said she 
wouldnt be taking benefits  at age 50 especially in light of the actuarial reduction that would  have been 
applied to her OPS. Legacy  made an offer to settle the complaint but on a different basis to the 
adjudicators recommendation. 
Mrs M subsequently rejected  its offer.
The adjudicator considered Legacys comment but was not persuaded to change his opinion. 
Therefore this complaint  has been referred to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator 
and so Ive decided to make  this provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN28969323Under the old OPS  arrangement Mrs M could access the benefits  from age 50 if necessary.
Mrs M has made a very specific complaint that had she been treated as part of a buddy (or block)  
transfer arrangement  by Legacy she could  have retained the ability to access the benefits  from age 
50.
Mrs M did not complain about the advice to transfer.  The original complaint was only that if her 
transfer been  arranged  as part of a bulk transfer arrangement by Legacy she would  have been able to 
draw benefits  from age 50 if she needed to.
This service does have  an inquisitorial remit and we can look at issues beyond those  that a consumer 
raises expressly. But in this case the complaint made was very specific and on a very narrow issue.  
Mrs M is unhappy that she cant access the benefits before age 55. But I think the gist of the issue is 
that she may have liked to access her benefits flexibly before 55 and not that she may have wanted to 
take the benefits in full before 55. That is what she would have  had to have done within the OPS. In 
all the circumstances I dont think it is fair to look at the wider advice  in this case. I think  Mrs M had 
sufficient awareness  to make the complaint  she intended.
 
I think  Legacy acknowledge that Mrs M could have kept the right to take benefits from age 50 if the 
transfer to the new SIPP had been  carried  out on a buddy transfer (or block transfer) basis. It has 
offered Mrs and Mrs M jointly £20,000 in respect of this issue.
Mrs M hasnt suffered a financial loss. She has lost the opportunity to start to take pension  benefits  
between 50 and 55 years of age. Its not apparent  that she intended  to take benefits  this early.  But it 
seems to me that it would  have  been a valuable  benefit given that she has decided to study and is 
without an earned income. 
In all the circumstances I think that the sum offered by Legacy is not unreasonable. Assuming  that 
offer can be considered as £10,000 to each I think it is fair. Im not currently minded to make a further 
award.
my provisional  decision
Im minded to uphold  this complaint about Legacy Private Wealth Limited.  It must  pay Mrs M £10,000. 
But this is my provisional decision and I will reconsider my conclusions once the parties have made 
any further comments.
Ref: DRN2896932