K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy in 1989  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. Due to 
the time that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs D applied  for their mortgage or PPI 
policy, but Mr and Mrs Ds recollection  is that it was in branch. 
I dont think its an unreasonable assumption  to make in the circumstances of this complaint 
that the policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs D for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  as 
well as permanent total disability  subject to its exclusions and limitations. Lloyds has told 
us it offered  to repay £332.90  a month  towards Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £29.16 a month. 
At the time,  Mr D was employed  as a butcher and he told us he worked fewer than 16 hours 
a week and had been doing so for less than three months. He says he was entitled to 
between six and twelve months pay if he was too unwell  to work as well as redundancy pay 
but didnt have any other means of repaying his mortgage should he have been  unable to 
work. Mr D told us he had suffered from depression  in around 1986,  had seen a doctor  and 
been prescribed medication.
Mrs D was employed as a payroll  officer. She has told us she was entitled to between six 
and twelve months pay if she was too unwell to work and redundancy benefits. She referred  
to Mr Ds income as her other means of repaying  her mortgage should she be unable  to 
work. Mrs D has said she was in good  health  at the time of the sale.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2007. 
Lloyds has given us different  information about  Mr Ds circumstances at the time of the sale.  
After Mr and Mrs D made their complaint to Lloyds it asked Mr and Mrs D about their 
employment status when they bought  the policy. Lloyds told us Mr D advised that he had 
been employed full-time  as a butcher and with the same employer for more than ten years.  
We referred back to Mr and Mrs D to relay what Lloyds had told us and asked for further  
details, but we didnt hear back from them with any disagreement about  what Lloyds had 
said. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ds representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
Ref: DRN24179962The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1989 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
Ref: DRN24179963s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN24179964-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs D 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs D 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to give us any documentation that would have been referred to or 
completed at the time of the sale. I dont find this surprising because of the time since  the 
sale and businesses are not obliged to hold onto paperwork indefinitely.  But Mr and Mrs D 
havent said anything  that would cause  me to think they were either told they had to have the 
policy or that it was added without their knowledge. So, in the absence of such  testimony to 
make me think otherwise, taking everything into account, I think its more  likely that Mr and 
Mrs D knew the policy was optional  and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
As Ive said above,  there isnt any paperwork from when the policy  was sold but 
Mr and Mrs Ds recollection from the time of the meeting  which they say took place, is that 
advice wasnt given.  
Lloyds for its part, cant  be sure whether the policy was sold at a meeting or whether advice 
was given. But to be fair to Mr and Mrs D, it has assumed that it did provide advice at the 
time of the sale and during a meeting. This doesnt  seem unreasonable as it was the most 
likely method of sale in 1989.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. It seems  Mr and Mrs D cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  I think  it more likely the adviser had 
some limited  information about Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances, but there is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mr and Mrs D would  
have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant the 
policy did not fully meet their needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds 
considered whether Mr and Mrs D had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN24179965Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given their circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable care and skill.
As Ive explained above, when Mr and Mrs D bought  their complaint to this service  their 
recollection from the time of the sale was that Mr D was working less than 16 hours a week  
as a butcher.  But Lloyds  told us it had previously contacted  Mr and Mrs D to clarify the 
circumstances of their employment at the time of the sale and were told Mr D was working 
full-time as a butcher and had been doing  so for many years. As Mr and Mrs D didnt come 
back to us when  we put this different recollection to them, I think  its reasonable to conclude 
its more likely that what they told Lloyds at an earlier date about their circumstances from the 
time of the sale is a clearer  recollection. I say this because if what they had remembered 
was significantly different, I would have expected them  to have let us know further to our 
enquiries.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ds ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the redundancy 
benefits and sick pay Mr and Mrs D say they would have been entitled to. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ds employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding the pre-existing medical condition  
Mr D has told us about  the depression he suffered from in 1986  Mr D hasnt told 
us that this illness had caused him to seek medical advice or of any further problems 
since it occurred, which would suggest it wasnt ongoing. And because I dont 
consider Mr Ds condition was ongoing  (importantly theres nothing to suggest  hed 
seen a doctor about this condition in the six months prior to the start date)  Im also 
mindful that even  if he had seen a doctor in this period the policy would have allowed 
claims for this condition if it had recurred  six months after the start date of the policy  
 I dont think the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs D. There  were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and 
Mrs Ds circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (for disability meaning that 
Mr or Mrs D couldnt carry out the duties of their normal employment,  unable to do 
any other work and any similar  paid occupation  for which they were qualified in view 
of their training,  education and ability. And the requirement that Mr and Mrs D be 
disabled or unemployed for 60 days before they could  make  a claim and the fact the 
policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim), the 
policy still provided valuable cover given:
Ref: DRN24179966Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 60-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs D be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs D unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs D 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ds. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN24179967Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs D suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs D. So, I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs D suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs D would have still taken  out the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs D have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs D would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believes I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I dont if know Lloyds told them the exact  premium  at the point Mr 
and Mrs D applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs D would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
Ref: DRN24179968years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs D would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ds 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr and 
Mrs D knew about  or ought to have known about and for which they had consulted  or 
received treatment from a doctor during the six-month period prior to taking the policy  
and which caused disability within the first six months after taking the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs D werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr or Mrs D 
couldnt carry out the duties of their normal employment, unable  to do any other work 
and any similar paid occupation for which they were  qualified in view of their training, 
education and ability;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr D says he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work within six months  of taking the policy because  of this condition  (and as 
Mr D hasnt told us he saw a doctor  in the six months before taking the policy  this exclusion 
might not be relevant in any event), I dont think better information  about this exclusion would 
have put them off agreeing to it. I say this because from what  Mr D has told us, it seems 
unlikely this was an ongoing condition. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Ref: DRN24179969If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to carry 
out the duties  of their normal employment and unable to do any similar  paid occupation for 
which they were qualified in view of their training,  education and ability, it might have played 
into their thinking about  what they would have done.  And I accept it may have given them 
pause for thought  although its possible  they may not have been overly concerned given 
that if Mr and Mrs D unable  (through  disability)  to carry on their own occupation the chances 
that they would be able to take up a similar  occupation would also,  in all probability,  be 
limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs D that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs D would have received full sick pay for, 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs D would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs D be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Ds sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs D were  made redundant,  or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs D found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN241799610Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs D think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1989  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 January  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2417996