K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold Privilege and 
Privilege Premier packaged bank  accounts to him in 2002 and 2011 respectively.
background
Prior to this complaint Co-op  agreed that it had mis-sold the Privilege account  and refunded  
the account fees plus interest in line with our approach therefore we did not look into this 
sale.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Cs complaint about the Privilege Premier 
account and she didnt think that Co-op  had mis-sold it. Mr C didnt accept this and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. Ive used this approach  to help 
me decide what to do about Mr Cs complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that Co-op mis-sold the packaged  
account to Mr C. And so it doesnt  owe him any compensation. Id like to explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr C was given a choice in taking  the packaged 
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  having weighed up what  Mr C and Co-op  
have been able to provide me with.  
Mr C has not said that he was forced to take out this particular account rather, 
he says he took out the Privilege Premier account as he was interested in getting an 
overdraft. I can see that Mr C had held an £100 overdraft prior to this upgrade  so I think  that 
he would  reasonably have been aware that he did not need  to hold a Privilege Premier 
account in order  to get an overdraft. But I can see that this account  did come with a 
guaranteed £300 interest free overdraft  which  is what he increased  his overdraft to at this 
time. So I think that this is likely that he took out the account in order  to get an increased 
interest free overdraft  rather  than because he thought it was the only way to get an overdraft. 
So overall I think that he took out this account knowing that he did not have to and he 
agreed to it as he was interested  in this benefit.
The Privilege account came with a number  of other  benefits such as travel insurance, mobile 
phone insurance  and breakdown cover and Mr C has confirmed that by the time he 
upgraded to the Premier  account he did drive, had a mobile phone and travelled. He has 
also not said that he had alternative cover so I think that these benefits may also have been 
something that interested Mr C at the time the account was taken out. I accept that Mr C 
may not have been told everything about all the other benefits that the Privilege Premier 
account came with but I cannot see anything specific that he was not told that I think  
wouldve changed his decision  to take out the account.
Mr Cs main issue with this account  seems to be that he felt that he was forced to keep the 
account in order  to continue to have  a Privilege Premier savings account.  But as the 
Ref: DRN23595832Privilege Premier savings account was a benefit for Privilege Premier account  holders only if 
Mr C wanted to continue  to receive  this benefit  he would indeed need to keep the account.  I 
dont think that it is unreasonable for Co-op  to only offer the benefits that come with a 
particular account  to people who hold the relevant account.
I understand that with hindsight Mr C may not think he shouldve taken out the account 
especially as he says he took out the account  for an overdraft that he also says he never 
subsequently used. But ultimately  Mr C took out an account for a benefit that was provided 
knowing that he did not have to upgrade if he did not want  to so I do not think that Co-op 
mis-sold this account or did anything wrong  in relation to the restrictions surrounding  the 
Privilege Premier savings account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2359583