K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are complaining that an adviser who worked for Dhanda  Financial, an 
appointed representative of TenetConnect Services Limited (Tenet) , induced them to give 
him money  that he then misappropriated for his own ends. The adviser  has since  been  
convicted of fraud and imprisoned.  As Dhanda Financial was an appointed representative of 
Tenet, Mr and Mrs M feel its responsible for their losses.
background 
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
partly upheld. An extract is attached and sets out the background to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional  findings, but also said theyd like to emphasise their 
feelings about other advice they received from the same adviser to take out a life insurance  
policy they believe was inappropriate  and led to them being uninsured.
Tenet didnt  accept my findings in respect  of payments 1 and 2 to the adviser.  In summary, it 
made the following key points:
Mr and Mrs M have  described payment 1 as a loan and didnt mention it as being  
related to the surrender  of their Cofunds investments.
Payment 2, which Mr and Mrs M have also described as a loan, was transferred to 
the adviser shortly  before Mrs M received a large  payment  from her pension scheme. 
It believes this was made because they knew the money in their account  would  be 
replenished imminently.
In 2014, Mr and Mrs M complained that the money they received from Cofunds was 
used to fund their Prudential investment bonds and they were compensated for that 
at the time. While it concluded they hadnt lost out by switching their money to 
Prudential, it paid £200 for their trouble and upset. It subsequently paid a sum of 
£2,800 to cover the early surrender charge when the Prudential  bonds were cashed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
I note Mr and Mrs Ms comments  about  advice they received in connection  with their life 
insurance arrangements and Im aware they raised  a number of issues in their initial  
complaint to Tenet. But as I said previously, I understand  an agreement  was reached about 
these points of complaint.  When  they approached us, Mr and Mrs M only asked us to look 
into the fraud and this is what  Ive focused  on in this decision. If they still have  concerns  
about the outcome of the other aspects  of their complaint, they can discuss  them with Tenet 
in the first instance  or they may be able to raise them with us as a separate complaint.
Tenet seems to be saying  payments 1 and 2 to the adviser cant have been funded by the 
sale of Mr and Mrs Ms Cofunds investments because  they complained in 2014  that this 
money was used to fund their Prudential bonds. But I dont think these events have to be 
mutually exclusive. The sale of the Cofunds investments produced more than they invested 
Ref: DRN24779202with Prudential, so its perfectly feasible the proceeds (or at least  part of them) were  also 
used to fund the fraudulent loans.
Mr Ms witness statement, the relevant  section  of which I quoted  in my provisional  decision, 
refers to the adviser telling him and his wife their existing investments werent performing 
well and offering  a return of 5% per year on a personal loan as an alternative.  And it appears  
the reference in the 2014  complaint to discussions (later documented in the advisers 
suitability letter of 3 March 2012) around lowering  the risk/volatility  of their investments and 
that led to the Prudential  investment took place around the same  time. So I think we can say 
both the Prudential investment and personal loans were recommended  in preference  to 
existing investments, quite likely at the same meeting. I think  this means theres an overlap 
in Mr and Mrs Ms recollections, but I certainly dont see it as a conflict  or inconsistency.
Analysing the sequence of events, all the transactions  occurred over a short  period  of time 
and that makes it more  difficult to determine  precisely which one funded  another.  But of the 
original £40,000  Prudential investment and payments 1 and 2 to the adviser, Im satisfied the 
advice to sell the Cofunds investments was given so that both could happen.  The proceeds 
werent enough to fund all the payments so Mr and Mrs M clearly also found money from 
other sources.
I think its practically impossible to separate things further at this stage and that its fairest  to 
approach this chronologically as the link between the advice to sell and the reinvestment is 
stronger the closer those  payments are to the sale proceeds being received. I think its fair to 
say the second Prudential  investment on 16 March 2012 is the least likely to be linked to the 
Cofunds surrender  as it was the last payment  and was made  after Mrs M received money 
from her pension. Of the other transactions, both loans to the adviser were  closer  in 
proximity to the Cofunds sale than the first Prudential investment and so I think, on balance,  
the additional money Mr and Mrs M found  from other sources was most likely  used  to fund 
the Prudential  investments  rather than the loans.
I think the evidence  is clear the adviser  was involved in the sale of the Cofunds investments 
and that this was a regulated activity.  Tenet  doesnt  seem to be disputing that. I also believe  
its correct to see payments 1 and 2 as part and parcel of the overall  advice Mr and Mrs M 
received to sell their Cofunds investments.  If the adviser hadnt met with them about that, I 
think its fairly clear they wouldnt have  made  the fraudulent payments. On that basis, Im 
satisfied its appropriate  to hold Tenet responsible for the loss.
I think this view is supported by the judgement  in the recent case  of Tenetconnect Services  
Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018].  This was a judgement  made after Tenet 
disputed an ombudsmans decision on a complaint about similar  actions by the same  adviser  
involving another of the advisers  clients.
In his judgement,  the judge  said the following:
I would have concluded, even had the Ombudsman  not, that the advice  to buy, to put 
it simply, though taken  by itself and in isolation, was unregulated, was here all part 
and parcel of the advice to sell, and was "regulated". This is not a case  where the 
advice to sell arose  from the need to dispose  of an underperforming  or risky asset,  
whereafter the IFA would look for something better.  It is not simply that the advice 
was given at the same  time, or that the trades took place so closely  in time. That 
helps to evidence  that the advice to buy was what led to the advice to sell. The 
advice to sell was given  so that the alternative  unregulated investments could be 
Ref: DRN24779203made; they were compared, and their advantages  persuaded Mr and Mrs T to accept 
the advice to sell. The advice, put simply was that, because they could do better in 
unregulated investments, they should sell the specified investments. The advice on 
unregulated investment justified the advice  on the specified investments, and in that 
way, became part of the regulated advice. The Ombudsman was bound to conclude 
that they were  part and parcel of the same advice. I conclude  that the whole advice 
was regulated activity,  and that the Ombudsman had jurisdiction.  
The judge  went  on to say that if one piece of this advice was the responsibility of Tenet then 
it would  be responsible for the whole of the advice. The agreement  between Dhanda  
Financial and Tenet didnt  limit the advisers  activities in advising on the sale of existing 
investments. As Tenet accepted responsibility for that part of the advisers activity, it follows 
that its also responsible  for the other parts of that regulated activity, including  the 
unregulated payments to the adviser that wouldnt  have happened otherwise. That means  
this aspect of the complaint falls within our compulsory  jurisdiction  and that its appropriate to 
hold Tenet  responsible for the resultant loss.
Ive considered what Tenet has said about  Mr and Mrs Ms previous  complaint carefully.  But 
this doesnt affect  my overall conclusions. When responding in 2014, Tenet appears to have 
accepted the Prudential  investments were  unsuitable and I dont think  the fact they might 
have been partly funded differently to how it was originally assumed would necessarily affect 
that conclusion.  In terms of the settlement, all Tenet did was reimburse the early surrender 
charge. It didnt properly  consider whether Mr and Mrs M had lost out compared to what  they 
would have done instead, it simply concluded there  was no loss on the basis  the bonds were 
worth more than they originally invested.  So I dont think theres any need to make  allowance 
for the amount it paid in the compensation award  Im making here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs M accept  my decision, TenetConnect Services Limited must pay them  
compensation calculated using the method set out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24779204extract from provisional decision:
background
Mr and Mrs M say they first met the adviser in January 2012, at which time they agreed to pay a 
monthly retainer of £50 for his services. During  the rest of 2012,  Mr and Mrs M made  significant 
payments to the adviser. Some of these were described as personal loans, which he promised  to 
repay with interest, and some were for an overseas  property investment. From an analysis of their 
bank statements and Mr Ms police witness statement, I can see the following key transactions  took 
place:
27 January - payment  1  a £15,000 loan to the adviser.
8 February   Mr and Mrs M received £55,000 from selling existing unit trust and ISA 
investments with Cofunds.
28 February  payment 2 - £10,000 loan to the adviser.
2 March  £40,000 investment into a Prudential bond. I understand Tenet  dealt with a 
complaint about this advice  separately.
9 March  Mrs M received £84,000  from her employers pension  scheme following her 
retirement.
13 March  payment  3 - £40,000 to the adviser for the overseas  property investment.
13 March  payment  4 - £10,000 to the adviser for the overseas  property investment.
16 March  £10,000  investment into a Prudential bond. As above, I understand  Tenet dealt 
with a complaint  about this advice  separately.
28 March  payment  5  £5,000 to the adviser  for the overseas property investment.
4 April - payment 6  £5,000 to the adviser for the overseas property investment.
20 December  Mr and Mrs M borrowed  a further £30,000 from their offset  mortgage using 
the in-built overdraft  facility.
21 December  payment  7 - a £2,000 loan to the adviser.
28 December - payment 8 - a £28,000  loan to the adviser.
Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements also show they paid a regular monthly  fee of £50 to the adviser for 
ten months between February and November 2012. After this, I understand the fee was incorporated 
into the loan repayments  the adviser had promised. In total, Mr and Mrs M have said they received six 
repayments of £287.50 between April and November  2012 and a further 13 repayments of £237.50 
between December 2012 and February 2014.
Since the adviser was convicted, Mr and Mrs M have received back  some of the money they gave 
him from the court. They  say theyve been told theyre entitled to £40,014.71. I understand they 
received payments totalling  £8,885.82  in 2017 (£2,400.40 on 8 January,  £6,277.66 on 6 February  and 
£207.76 on 4 May) but have received nothing since. 
Tenet initially didnt accept Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It said the loan and property investment were  
unregulated arrangements  between  them and the adviser.  And that these types of arrangement  
werent covered by its agreement with Dhanda  Financial, meaning it didnt authorise them and cant  
be held responsible.
Ref: DRN24779205The most recent investigator to review this complaint  felt Tenet should  be held responsible  for 
payments 1, 7 and 8 to the adviser and recommended  it pay appropriate  compensation.
Tenet didnt accept the investigators  conclusions and made the following key points:
Payment 1 was transferred to the adviser before  Mr and Mrs M received the proceeds of the 
Cofunds investments.
The correspondence  throughout the complaint relating to the surrender of the Cofunds 
investments says it was intended to be reinvested in the Prudential bonds. 
The advisers  suitability letter dated 3 March 2012  didnt mention the proceeds of the Cofunds 
investments being  used  to fund a £15,000 loan. Instead, it talks about a £40,000 investment 
with Prudential with a view to top-ups in the future.
Its not been provided  with sufficient evidence  that the adviser gave regulated advice when 
speaking to Mr and Mrs M about  borrowing  money against their mortgage account  in 
December 2012.
Mr and Mrs M have  emphasised  their view that the losses they suffered were  preventable and the 
result of inadequate supervision  by Tenet  of its appointed representative. They  also said their aim 
when they chose to employ an adviser was to get the best advice for investing their money and they 
strongly feel their investments should  be classed  as regulated.
my provisional  findings
Both parties have  made detailed submissions in this case  and I havent necessarily  tried to address  
every point raised in this decision. Instead, Ive concentrated on what  I think  are the key issues.  Ive 
explained why I think we can consider  part of this complaint and also what  I think  Tenet  should  do to 
put things right.
Throughout my decision,  Ive referred to the rules I must follow in assessing all aspects  of this 
complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules, published  as part of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook.
As the industry regulator, it would be for the FCA to monitor Tenets oversight and supervision  of 
Dhanda Financial  and I wont be commenting on that. The only thing I will say is that this complaint is 
the result of a sophisticated fraud. But that doesnt mean Tenet isnt ultimately responsible  for some of 
the advisers actions.
In reaching this decision, Ive relied on the following  key pieces of evidence:
Mr Ms police witness  statement dated 22 January 2014.
a covering letter from Dhanda Financial to Cofunds dated 30 January 2012,  enclosing an 
instruction to cash Mr and Mrs Ms ISA and unit trust.
a bank statement  showing Mr and Mrs M received  payments of £1,467.02, £11,819.77, 
£18,707.49 and £23,096.73  from Cofunds on 8 February 2012.
Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements for 2012, showing a bank  transfer for £10,000 on 28 
February 2012 and regular  monthly payments  of £50 to the adviser between  February and 
November 2012.
If Tenet hasnt  seen any of this information and would like to, it can ask the investigator for copies  
before responding to this provisional decision.
Ref: DRN24779206jurisdiction
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms view that their investments  should  be classed as regulated,  but in 
considering what aspects of their complaint we can look at, I have to apply the relevant  rules as 
theyre written. We can consider a complaint under  our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates  to an act or 
omission by a firm in the carrying out of one or more listed activities, including regulated activities,  or 
any ancillary activities carried on by the firm in connection with those  activities (DISP 2.3.1).
Complaints about acts or omissions  by a firm include complaints about acts or omissions in respect of 
activities for which the firm is responsible, including  the business of any appointed representative for 
which the firm has accepted responsibility  (DISP 2.3.3G).
So there are two questions to be considered before I can decide whether this complaint falls within 
the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:
1.Were the acts being  complained about done in carrying out a regulated activity?
2.Did those  acts constitute business  for which Tenet accepted  responsibility?
were the acts being complained about  done in carrying out a regulated activity?
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (the 
RAO) and include  advising  on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment  which is a 
security or a relevant investment (article  53 RAO), and making arrangements for another  person  to 
buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO).
The fraudulent property investment and loan are not relevant investments as defined  in the RAO, 
meaning advising  on and/or  arranging them wasnt a regulated activity. But Ive also carefully 
considered whether the investment and loan were made in connection  with other activities that were 
regulated, or other  activities specified in DISP 2.3.1.
Advising on the merits of buying or selling  an investment that is a security or relevant  investment, and 
making arrangements for another  person to buy or sell or subscribe to a security or relevant  
investment, are both regulated activities. If any of the payments Mr and Mrs M made to the adviser 
were funded by the sale of a security  or relevant investment, and the adviser advised on and/or 
arranged the sale, that payment would  be part and parcel of that regulated activity and so fall within  
our jurisdiction. Ive considered  each  of the payments listed above in turn.
payments 1 and 2 - £15,000 on 27 January and £10,000 on 28 February 2012
In his police witness statement, Mr M said:
On Friday 27 January  2012, my wife and I held another meeting with [the adviser] at his office 
on XXXX. The purpose  of this meeting  was to lower  the risk of our investments.
Shortly after this meeting,  I received a letter from [the adviser] detailing our discussions.
During this meeting, [the adviser] informed  us that most of our investments were  not 
performing well, and our return was very small. I can remember him telling us, that if we 
invested our money  with him, by way of a personal  loan,  then he would guarantee us a return  
of 5% on our investment.
My wife and I were impressed with how [the adviser] was portraying himself, and we agreed 
to invest  £15,000 by way of a personal  loan to [the adviser].
Ref: DRN24779207[the adviser] gave us his personal bank details, and after our meeting we called into a branch  
of [bank] after our meeting,  and made a bacs transfer of £15,000 into the personal bank 
account of [the adviser].
I did not receive any paperwork or loan agreement for this payment,  but I believe that he told 
us that he would make a monthly  repayment to us, which included 5% interest.
On Tuesday 28 February 2012 my wife and I invested  a further £10,000 with [the adviser]  by 
way of personal loan, after he told us again, that he would guarantee a 5% return  on our 
investment.
On balance, I think  payments 1 and 2 were  part of the overall activity that also involved the surrender 
of their Cofunds investments, with payment 1 being made in contemplation  of receiving the proceeds 
and payment 2 being funded by them.  In addition to Mr Ms witness statement, which I think is 
compelling evidence, an analysis of their bank statements  appears to show he and his wife didnt  
have enough money at the time to fund both payments from other sources. And I note the Cofunds 
instruction forms  were  dated Monday 30 January 2012 - the working day after Mr M says he and his 
wife discussed the loan with the adviser and the first payment was transferred.
I think  its also clear  the adviser was involved in the Cofunds sales. As well as copies of Mr and Mrs 
Ms instruction forms, Cofunds has also provided a covering letter from Dhanda  Financial showing it 
sent them  in. 
I note Tenet believes the proceeds of the Cofunds investments were used to fund the Prudential  
investments only, but I dont  think this view ties in with the order of events and other evidence  Ive set 
out above.  Im also conscious payment 2 pre-dated  the second Prudential investment, which  was 
actually made  very shortly  after Mrs M received  a significant sum from her employers pension, which 
I think  was far more  likely to have been  how that was actually funded.
I appreciate the advisers suitability  letter didnt  mention the Cofunds investments being  used to fund 
anything other  than the Prudential investments. But given the fraudulent nature of the other 
arrangements he was making for Mr and Mrs Ms money, I dont think its a surprise he decided not to 
document them in that way.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ms Cofunds investments  were relevant investments. And that by either 
advising on and/or arranging their sale, the adviser  was carrying out a regulated  activity. I think  the 
evidence shows payments 1 and 2 were linked  to this activity and are therefore covered by our 
compulsory jurisdiction.
payments 3 to 6
As Ive explained above, the proceeds  of Mr and Mrs Ms Cofunds  investments funded payment 2 and 
their initial investment with Prudential. Shortly after that, Mrs M received a lump sum from her 
employers pension. This appears to have been the source of payments 3 to 6 and their statements 
dont show significant sums were received from any other source  at this time.
Any part the adviser may have played in Mrs M deciding to take her pension when she did and how 
much of it to take as a cash sum wouldnt have been a regulated activity  under the RAO. And without 
evidence of a regulated  activity that was connected, I have to conclude  payments 3 to 6 are outside 
our jurisdiction and we cant consider them.
payments 7 and 8
These payments were  funded by money Mr and Mrs M borrowed against their mortgage account.  
They didnt arrange  a new mortgage, but instead used a facility on their existing  mortgage allowing 
them to borrow back money theyd previously  repaid. Ive no reason to doubt it was the adviser  who 
suggested they release  money in this way. But contrary to what  the investigator previously suggested, 
Ref: DRN24779208that wouldnt have constituted formal advice  or any other kind of regulated activity  as defined  in the 
relevant rules and regulations.
Without evidence the adviser carried out a regulated  activity in connection with payments 7 and 8, I 
have to conclude these are also outside our jurisdiction to consider. My view on this point is different 
to that expressed  by the investigator.
did those acts constitute business for which Tenet accepted responsibility?
On the subject of appointed representatives,  section  39 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 
(FSMA) says:
The principal of an appointed  representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The words Ive emphasised  here are particularly important. This means  a principal (Tenet in this case) 
can appoint a representative (Dhanda  Financial) but limit the scope of the regulated activities that 
representative can carry out and that it will be responsible  for.
The activities  Dhanda  Financial was permitted to carry out as an appointed representative  of Tenet 
were set out in an agreement  between the two businesses. Tenet has confirmed  this agreement  
meant the adviser:
was not restricted  in his ability to advise  on the surrender of investments  insofar  as he could 
advise on the surrender of investments from any provider.
In other words, Tenet authorised the adviser  to arrange  and make recommendations for the sale and 
surrender of investments  and it accepted responsibility  for these activities.  So Im satisfied advising 
Mr and Mrs M on and/or  arranging the sale of units in their Cofunds investments was included in the 
activities Dhanda Financial and its advisers  were permitted by Tenet to carry  out. And that Tenet, as 
principal, is therefore responsible for this regulated  activity and other activities connected to it, 
including the advice to use the proceeds to fund an unregulated loan to the adviser.
conclusions
Im satisfied the fraud Mr and Mrs M are complaining  about in respect of payments 1 and 2 (to use the 
proceeds of existing investments to fund a loan to the adviser) was part of a regulated activity (the 
sale of units in their Cofunds  investments).  Im also satisfied Tenet, as principal,  accepted 
responsibility for that regulated activity by its representative. As a result, this aspect  of the complaint 
falls within our compulsory jurisdiction.
I dont think we have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about the other payments to the adviser  
because they werent connected to a regulated  activity or any other activity for which Tenet  accepted 
responsibility.
I appreciate this isnt entirely the outcome Mr and Mrs M were  hoping for and that it doesnt fully 
address the losses theyve  suffered. But I have  to apply the relevant rules and for the reasons Ive 
explained, Tenet cant be held responsible for all of the advisers actions.
Given my finding that Tenet is responsible for the part of the fraud  carried out by the adviser  in 
respect of payments 1 and 2, I think its fair and reasonable to require  it to pay compensation for any 
loss that resulted.
Ref: DRN24779209monthly fees
In his police witness statement, Mr M said he his wife agreed to pay the adviser  a monthly  fee of £50 
as a retainer for his services.  Unfortunately theres no written record of an agreement with the adviser  
regarding fees. But I do find Mr Ms evidence, given its contained in a formal  police witness 
statement, compelling.  And bank statements show ten regular monthly  payments of £50 to the adviser 
between February and November 2012.
The provision of ongoing  investment advice is a regulated activity and was therefore  covered  by 
Dhanda Financials  appointed  representative agreement. This means  Tenet  is responsible for the fee 
agreement and I need  to consider whether compensation should be paid for that too. 
Comparatively speaking, Mr and Mrs M had relatively straightforward  investment arrangements. The 
adviser charged £50 per month essentially, it appears, as a retainer. This seems excessive in the 
absence of evidence he planned to do anything more than occasional reviews of those  investments. 
Im also conscious the ongoing contact  with the adviser  Mr and Mrs M paid for led to the 
misappropriation of significant sums  of their money. In the circumstances,  I think its also fair and 
reasonable to require Tenet  to return  the fees as set out below. 
putting things  right
In assessing whats fair compensation, my aim is to restore (as far as possible) the position that would 
have existed but for the part of the fraud Tenet is responsible  for.
Its not clear exactly what Mr and Mrs M would have done with the money  they took out of their 
Cofunds investments without  the advisers  intervention. But Ive seen nothing  to indicate  they were 
looking to sell them before they met him. So without his intervention,  I think its most  likely the money  
would have stayed where it was. On that basis, I think the current value  their money  would  have 
achieved if left invested  with Cofunds should form the basis of the compensation  payment.
In calculating compensation,  I also think it would  be reasonable for Tenet  to take account of:
the monthly repayments Mr and Mrs M received  from the adviser in respect of the loan under 
payment 1 and 2 only. 
As payments  3 to 6 have  been described as investments,  where  Mr and Mrs M expected 
returns to be based rent and price rises  from what they thought was an overseas  property 
investment, and since the amount of the monthly repayments  didnt change after they made 
these payments to the adviser, I think the first seven repayments received between  February 
and November  2012  should be seen  as linked  to payments 1 and 2.
By the time, Mr and Mrs M received the repayment in December 2012, theyd made  a further 
two payments (payments 7 and 8) to the adviser  that (according to Mr Ms witness statement) 
were described as loans on which they were expecting to receive interest payments. So I 
think its reasonable  to believe the monthly repayments from December  2012 onwards  
reflected all four loans  payments 1, 2, 7 and 8. 
Payments 1 and 2 totalled  £25,000, which is approximately 45% of the total of the four loans. 
So I think its fairest to assume 45% of all repayments received from December 2012  related 
to payments 1 and 2.  
the money Mr and Mrs M have received from the court in respect of payments 1 and 2 only.  
Payments 1 and 2 account  for approximately  22% of the £115,000  they paid to the adviser 
overall. So I think  its fairest to assume the same proportion of the court payments related  to 
these loans.
Ref: DRN247792010To put things right, I currently think Tenet should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of D - H, where:
A.= the amount the £25,000 loaned to the adviser in January and February  2012 (payments 1 
and 2) would now be worth  if it had remained invested with Cofunds.  I think  it would be fairest 
to assume this £25,000  would have been invested in the same funds as it had been 
previously and in the same  proportions  as their overall investment. Cofunds should be able to 
provide figures for this part of the calculation;
B.= each monthly fee Mr and Mrs M paid to Dhanda Financial between  February 2012 and 
November 2012;
C.= simple interest at 8% per year on each  amount  in B from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement. Income  tax may be payable on the interest, which is to compensate Mr and Mrs M 
for not having the use of this money;
D.= A + B + C;
E.= all monthly loan repayments Mr and Mrs M received from the adviser between February  
and November  2012;
F.= 45.5% of all monthly loan repayments Mr and Mrs M received from the adviser from 
December 2012 onwards;
G.= 22% of all payments  Mr and Mrs M have received from the court;  and
H.= E + F + G.
Id expect Tenet to calculate  compensation due at the date of my final decision. If this amount isnt 
paid within 28 days of the date on which  Mr and Mrs M accept my decision,  it would need to add 
simple interest  to the whole amount from the date of my decision to the date it makes payment.
If Tenet is concerned  Mr and Mrs M may recover more money from the advisers remaining assets, it 
should be entitled to require them to sign over their rights to 22% of any future  payments they receive 
as part of this settlement. Id expect Mr and Mrs M to agree to that. It would be for Tenet to arrange 
and pay any costs  associated  with drawing up an appropriate agreement.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs M and that it only goes a small 
part of the way to addressing their situation. Theyve been  the victims of fraud and I have great 
sympathy with the situation  they find themselves in through no fault of their own. But as Ive 
explained, this is as much as Im able to do given the nature of their complaint and the rules 
concerning our jurisdiction.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to partly uphold  this complaint. I currently think  TenetConnect  
Services Limited should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation calculated  using the method set out above.
Ref: DRN2477920