K820x#14Complaint
Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund transactions
he says he didnt make.
Background
Mr K was living abroad from February  2017 to January  2018,  where  he was receiving 
medical treatment. During this period,  he said a local bank took money from his account,  
totalling £10,966.12, without his knowledge or consent.
He said he first noticed the transactions when he checked his account online at the end of 
August 2017.  He reported his concerns on 31 August 2017. As the disputed transactions 
were made with his debit  card,  Halifax  cancelled  his card and issued a new one. It also 
gave him advice on how to keep his card and PIN safe. But it didnt refund him.
He contacted Halifax again on 20 January 2018, after discovering that the same  bank had 
taken more money.
Mr K raised a fraud  complaint with Halifax and asked for a refund of all the disputed  
transactions. He said he never used this bank.  He used another  nearer bank for cash  
withdrawals.
Halifax decided not to refund him. It said there was no reason to suspect fraud  because  
the transactions were made with his debit card, which was still in his possession, and his 
PIN. And hed told Halifax he hadnt  shared his PIN with anyone or written  it down. It had 
also advised him in August 2017  to keep his PIN and card safe,  but the same thing 
happened again. It concluded  that he must  have  authorised the transactions.
Halifax later suggested  that Mr K might have used the money for his medical fees. However,  
Mr Ks son explained  his grandmother paid for Mr Ks treatment.
Mr K didnt think Halifaxs decision was fair, so he asked this service  to investigate. 
I issued a provisional decision, setting  out the events leading up to this complaint, and how I 
thought best to resolve it. In summary, I thought it was more likely than not that Mr K had 
authorised the transactions. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions. 
Response to my provisional decision
Mr K didnt accept my provisional  decision. His son responded  on his behalf.  Ive included 
his comments below.
Ref: DRN27990252Halifax said it had nothing  more  to add.
This case has now come back to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Im afraid I have disappointing  news for Mr K. Ive read his sons  reply  to my provisional 
decision, but Ive seen  no new information  which has persuaded me to change  my decision.  
Ill explain  why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions  of the customers account. And I 
have taken that into account  when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The regulations also require Halifax to refund the amount  of an unauthorised transaction. But 
Halifax can hold Mr K liable for any disputed transaction, if the evidence suggests  that its 
more likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  Mr K says he didnt make  the 
disputed transactions  and he wants a refund. So, my primary concern is to come to a view 
about whether  or not I think he authorised the transactions.
The disputed transactions were cash  withdrawals,  which were made over the counter in a 
local bank. Mr Ks son said its possible  for card fraud to take place  without the card or PIN 
being present.  Thats  true sometimes, but its not what happened here. The banks technical  
evidence shows that for each cash withdrawal, the chip in Mr Ks card was read by the 
machine. This means his physical  card was used for the withdrawals. In fact, two different 
debit cards were used, because the first card was replaced by a second card after he made  
his first complaint in August  2017. 
Halifax also confirmed that a transaction failed because either the wrong PIN was entered or 
there wasnt a PIN. It said this proved that a PIN was needed to make  the successful  
withdrawals. 
Ive seen the transaction reports for each disputed cash withdrawal, including the one that 
was declined. Having  reviewed the technical  evidence, Im satisfied Mr Ks genuine cards  
and PIN were used  in order for the disputed cash withdrawals to take place.
But even if his cards  and PIN were used, I still need  to consider if Mr K authorised the 
transactions and if he didnt, then how was it possible for a third party to get hold of his cards 
and PIN?
Mr K maintained the cards were always with him. He hadnt  lost his cards  when he reported 
the fraud in August 2017  and again  in January  2018. He said he might  have left a
card on a table and someone might have taken and returned it. He told Halifax  he had never 
shared his PIN with anyone, he hadnt  kept a written note and the PIN wasnt  guessable. 
Ref: DRN27990253This means  a third party  couldnt use the cards without the PIN. He later this service that he 
shared his PIN with his daughter and son, but I understand  they werent living  with him at the 
time.
Mr Ks son said it may well be the case that there  was no point of compromise, but fraud can 
take place without the physical card or PIN. However, as Ive already mentioned, the 
evidence shows that the physical card was used with the PIN. Moreover, I think the 
frequency of the disputed cash withdrawals suggests an ease and confidence in taking and 
returning the card without  fear of repercussions. I think this makes  it more likely than not that 
Mr K authorised the disputed cash withdrawals, either by making them  himself  or by giving 
someone he knew permission to use his cards and PIN.
Halifax also said Mr K made genuine online transactions in between the disputed ones, 
which proved he still had his card and was using it. Mr K was also registered for online 
banking. The online banking audit shows he logged in multiple times in August 2017  before 
raising his concerns on 31 August  2017.  Halifax said when  he logged in, he would have 
seen the disputed cash withdrawals and the decreasing balance. However, he didnt raise  
his concerns immediately.  
Mr Ks son said just because someone uses a card online, it doesnt  mean  they are logged  
into their online bank  account. And he said that some of the online payments were direct  
debits. According  to the bank statements, many of the genuine  transactions are shown as 
debit card payments.  However, these payments arent in dispute. And Mr K admits he still 
had his card so its irrelevant how the genuine payments were made. 
But there is evidence  that Mr K logged in to his online banking. Ive seen  the audit for the 
online banking. This shows Mr K logged in multiple  times throughout August 2017 and 
September 2017. It appears he made a couple of transfers to his son, so he would have 
seen the lower balance on his account.  And he ought to have seen the disputed cash  
withdrawals from February to August 2017.  However, he didnt raise  his concerns until the 
end of August  2017. Similarly, he didnt raise any concerns about the second set of disputed 
cash withdrawals until January 2018.
I think its plausible someone close to Mr K was using his card but, only with his consent. I
understand the only other person in the household  was Mrs K and she might have known
the PIN. But theres no suggestion that Mrs K was using the card. His son said he might
have had a carer, but the carer wouldnt have helped with financial tasks  and so it seems
unlikely the carer had access to the card. Besides, and more importantly, there is no
evidence of how the carer would have  known his PIN.
If someone else were using the card, then he must  have shared his PIN with them  at some
stage. He told this service his daughter and son knew  the PIN, but they werent  living with 
him. Unfortunately for Mr K, the regulations also state that Halifax can still hold him liable if
he has, with intent or gross negligence, failed to take all reasonable steps to keep his
personalised security  features safe. And sharing his card and PIN would be doing just that.
Mr Ks son said that Halifax should  have done  more to stop the payments, especially after 
the first fraud complaint  was made.  As I said at the outset, a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. In this case, Halifax  had 
cancelled his debit  card. Its internal  notes  show that it gave him advice  on how to protect  his 
card and PIN when  he contacted it in August 2017. There were further cash  withdrawals 
Ref: DRN27990254from the same local bank for a further five months, which  he disputed.  Yet these were made 
with the replacement debit card. I dont think there was any reason for the bank to be 
suspicious where the cash withdrawals were  made  with a recently  issued card. 
And besides, Mr Ks personal circumstances hadnt changed. There  was a limited  number  of 
people who might have  had access to the card  only Mrs K and, possibly,  a carer. It 
appears Mr K took no steps to protect his card or change his PIN. So, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that hed authorised the disputed cash withdrawals or 
had allowed someone else to use his card and PIN.
For all the reasons Ive given, I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax to refuse a refund of 
the disputed cash  withdrawals on the basis they were authorised by Mr K.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2799025