K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained  that they were mis-sold a loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from July 2019, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I 
invited BoS and Mr and Mrs H to send in any further  comments or evidence  they wanted  me 
to consider by 31 August 2019,  before I reached a final decision. Both responded before that 
date, so I can now issue my final decision.  Mr and Mrs H said they had nothing further to 
add. BoS sent in a response  to say that it agreed the complaint should be upheld.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither BoS nor Mr and Mrs H 
provided further evidence or arguments for consideration, and BoS has agreed that the 
complaint should  be upheld,  Ive no reason to change the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. So I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
what the business needs  to do
BoS should put Mr and Mrs H in the position  theyd  be in now if they hadnt  taken  out PPI. 
So BoS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  BoS can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give Mr and Mrs H 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Bank  of 
Scotland plc should pay them the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28471162COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained that they were mis-sold  a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mr and Mrs H bought the PPI policy when they took out a secured personal loan in March 2000. The 
loan was for £3,500 over 36 months.  BoS said that the PPI sale took place in a meeting and that it 
advised Mr and Mrs H to take out the policy. Mr and Mrs H agreed that there was a meeting at BoS,  
but didnt say whether or not they remembered being advised to take the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H raised a number of complaint points. Among other things,  they said they didnt have a 
choice about taking the PPI - it was just included  as part of the package  and they didnt need the 
cover as they had good employee  benefits. They were also concerned that Mr H wouldnt have been 
able to claim  on the policy  because of his occupation, which they thought  wouldve been deemed 
high-risk.
The policy provided  life, accident, sickness and unemployment  cover for Mr H only (as the first-named  
borrower) at a monthly cost of £11.64.  If Mr H had made a successful unemployment claim, the policy 
wouldve covered the loan payments for up to 12 months per claim. For accident  and sickness, the 
policy couldve paid out for up to the remaining term of the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  This was because, although she 
considered there  to have been shortcomings in the sale, she thought  the policy  was suitable for Mr H 
and that he and Mrs H would still have taken the policy. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, and asked that their 
complaint be referred  to an ombudsman for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Im proposing to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H first said that the PPI was presented as part of the package  so they didnt really  have 
a choice  about taking  it. I have some documents from the sale - BoS sent in copies of its computer 
records of Mr and Mrs Hs loan account, along with copies of the loan agreement and the PPI policy. 
BoS could not provide Mr and Mrs Hs application  form, but they sent in a sample copy of a form from 
around the same  time,  and I think its reasonable to take that as representative of what  Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve filled in. 
The sample  application form shows  that the first named borrower (in this case Mr H) wouldve  had to 
sign to say whether or not he wanted PPI  - the form clearly shows separate yes and no boxes for 
this purpose. And his signature would have been separate from his and Mrs Hs signatures for the 
credit application. 
The loan agreement that Mr and Mrs H signed, later on, also shows yes and no boxes alongside the 
question Do you want Personal  Loan  Repayments Insurance? In this case  the yes box is marked 
with a cross.
I accept that, as the PPI was sold in a meeting,  I cant know  how the PPI was presented by the 
adviser. But from whats on the documents, I think its more likely than not that they were given a 
choice about taking the cover, and decided to do so. I note that BoS said that it recommended the 
Ref: DRN28471163policy  and Ive no reason  to doubt that  so it may be that Mr and Mrs H may simply have 
misremembered a suggestion that they should  take the PPI as a requirement that they must have it. 
As Ive said BoS told us it advised Mr and Mrs H to take the PPI. So it shouldve  made sure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr H (as the person  insured). I dont think it was.
I cant  know  how the adviser  explained the policy  details  - especially the things not covered. But I 
cant see that Mr H wouldve  been affected by any of these. Mr H said he was in good health at the 
time of the sale, and although he and Mrs H expressed concern that Mr Hs occupation  would be 
deemed as high-risk  and therefore affect his ability to claim on the PPI - theres nothing in the 
policy to suggest that this was the case. 
I note that Mrs H said she had some health conditions  at the time of the sale  but as she wasnt 
covered by the policy, these wouldnt have  impacted  on any claim by Mr H.
However, Mr H said he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of twelve months  pay. 
He further  said he wouldve been entitled to redundancy pay and death-in-service benefit. Whilst  not 
covered by the policy, Mrs H was also employed, and she too said she had good employee  benefits. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt mention having savings  at the time, although I note that BoSs computer records 
do mention them holding savings accounts (albeit  with no balances shown).
Whilst I accept I cant be certain that Mr Hs sick pay would all have been at his full pay rate, I do think 
that, given his occupation,  hes likely  to have  had a good level of sick pay. In terms of redundancy  
pay, I note that Mr H said hed been with his employer for some ten years,  and again I think its likely 
that, in the event of redundancy, he wouldve  received  a good pay-out. Mr H also said hed have been 
entitled to death-in-service  benefit, and Ive no reason  to doubt that. 
I accept that the loan was secured on the Mr and Mrs Hs home, but it was for quite a small amount 
and a short term. BoSs computer records do not suggest a high level of other commitments. And as 
Ive said,  Mr H was not the only income earner. So if Mr H had been off sick, or been made  
redundant, it seems  to me that they would  most likely have been  able to maintain the loan payments 
for quite some time without  great difficulty. 
In this particular case, and taking all of these factors  into account, Im not satisfied that there was a 
strong need for the policy. So overall, I dont think that the PPI was suitable. It follows that I dont think 
Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken out the policy if they had been properly advised.  This means  they are 
worse off as a result  of what BoS did wrong, so it should put things right.
what the business needs to do
BoS should  put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out PPI. So BoS 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim  under the PPI policy,  BoS can take off what  they got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  BoS to take off tax from this interest.  BoS must give Mr and Mrs H 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN28471164my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im proposing  to uphold this complaint, and to require Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay them  the compensation Ive described.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2847116