K820x#14Complaint
Mr C has complained as a partner of D, a limited liability partnership, that Nationwide  
Building Society wrongly retained funds in its own security deposit account  when it had 
agreed to hold them to cover  the partners tax liabilities. 
Background
Mr C took out business  loans  with Nationwide on Ds behalf and, in 2004, entered into a 
debenture which gave Nationwide a floating  charge over all property and assets owned by D 
then and in the future.  
Following the expiry of the loans D owed Nationwide around £5,000,000.  Mr C said he sold 
properties on a consensual basis to reduce the debt. Mr Cs complained about Nationwides 
actions following the sale of a property that Ill refer to as W. 
Mr C said hed understood Nationwide was holding  £89,879.20   Ws sale proceeds   in a 
security deposit account for the partners  tax liabilities. He said D no longer owed Nationwide 
any money as it had confirmed a nil balance on Ds account in March  2016. However in 
August 2016 Nationwide closed the account  and used this money to off-set  some  of the 
£4,000,000 loss it had incurred in relation to the money it had lent to D.
Nationwide disagreed. It said the account  was held in its name and not Ds following  the 
payment of £89,879.20 for the society to release  its charge over W. Nationwide said the 
application form showed the account was set up by its employees and not Mr C. It said Ds 
name was on the account for reference only and the authorised signatories were its 
employees. The society also said it hadnt  released the debenture and D still owed money, 
so it was entitled to use it to off-set  what D owed.  Nationwide said it wasnt responsible  for 
the partners tax liabilities.  
Mr C asked why Nationwide didnt  tell him the account was in its name  and said hed been 
led to believe it was in Ds name.  He said the society  should have off-set  the money against 
Ds debt at the time it received it if that was its ultimate intent. He said the implications  of 
Nationwides actions  meant Ds statutory accounts were  wrong,  his personal tax returns 
incorrect and D trading when it would actually  have been insolvent.  
Mr C asked why this money had been treated differently to the money from sales of other 
properties. He referred  to emails between him and Nationwide from 2013 where he asked 
about how the money would be held. He said as the receivers hadnt accounted for this 
money that showed  it wasnt Nationwides. Mr C said his solicitors  could  provide  confirmation  
of the basis on which the money was released  and that the solicitors wouldnt have released  
the money if Nationwide  were going  to take it. Mr C asked for copies of the interest accrued 
on the account as he thought the money  should  be his. Mr C also said Companies  House  
showed the debenture has been discharged in 2016 so Nationwide shouldnt have moved 
the money when  it did.
Nationwide said it had agreed in 2013  that the money would be held in escrow until a way 
forward could be agreed but this had been  followed up with an email saying the money 
would be held by Nationwide. The society was satisfied the emails  between it and Ds 
solicitors made clear it had been  paid the money to release the security charge on the 
property. It said it had also made clear that it wouldnt  be able to assist  with the partners tax 
liabilities. And the money was its property to hold or move when it wanted to. 
Ref: DRN23560492Nationwide said it appointed receivers in 2014  because the relationship with Mr C and D had 
broken down and the society wanted  to call in the debts and recover  as much money as it 
could from the sale of Ds remaining assets.  So by that time it had already received the 
money for W which is why the receivers didnt report on it. It said it wouldnt provide details 
of the interest  accrued on the account  as it was its account and not Mr Cs. It also said the 
release of the debenture on Companies House didnt mean  Mr C no longer had any 
obligation to pay what he owed. But in any event the money  had been Nationwides since  
2013 so that wasnt relevant. 
Mr C said:
Hed acted in good faith without  a formal agreement and the spirit  of the emails 
meant the money should be held in Ds name  until wider discussions were held. 
The society sent statements showing the closing account balance was nil. 
His solicitor  had emailed Nationwide referring  to Ds security deposit account and it 
hadnt corrected  him. 
His proposals in 2012  that the money be held for the partners tax liabilities  were  
never disputed and both he and Nationwide  had proceeded on that basis. 
I asked Nationwide  for further clarification about  why it didnt off-set  the money it received to 
release the charge on W earlier. It said it had agreed to hold the money in a separate  
account to see how Ds plan and strategy unfolded. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 July 2019 where I explained why I 
didnt intend to ask Nationwide to do anything more. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for, and Ive set out my 
reasons below.
Mr C has raised  a number of issues and questions hed like us to respond to. While I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about his complaint were an informal  dispute resolution 
service, set up as a free alternative  to the courts. In deciding this complaint, Ive focused on 
what I consider to be at the heart  of the matter  rather than commenting on every issue  in 
turn. This isnt intended  as a discourtesy to Mr C. Rather it reflects the informal  nature of our 
service, the remit of the Financial Ombudsman  Service and my role in deciding  this 
complaint.
As well as the complaint points set out in the background  Mr C has also raised concerns 
about Nationwides actions prior to the loan ending. However as that wasnt the crux of this 
complaint and Nationwide hasnt responded to those points  in its final response  letter  I 
havent dealt with here. If Mr C remains concerned about Nationwides  actions at that time it 
will need  to be dealt  with as a separate complaint. 
As set out above, Nationwide and Mr C have different  recollections  of what  agreement was 
reached in relation to the proceeds of Ws sale. There are limited  recordings of the 
discussions that took place at the time so its difficult to know  exactly what was discussed.   
So Ive based  my decision on what I thinks most  likely to have happened using the 
information provided by both parties.  I havent  seen anything that shows  there was a formal 
agreement for D to keep  the money  to cover the partners  tax liabilities. Mr C also recognises 
Ref: DRN23560493that there  wasnt a formal  agreement for him to keep  the money but says he acted in good 
faith on the basis of what  was agreed in conversations at the time. 
Mr Cs provided  a detailed  timeline  of his contact with Nationwide since  2011.  I understand 
he recalls being  told by the representative  that the money would be held to pay for tax 
liabilities. Hes also provided a statement from his funding advisor that says this was agreed  
in a face to face meeting.  
While I dont doubt they understood this to be the case I find it unlikely that Nationwide  would 
have agreed to return the money if there was still an outstanding debt. It was owed a 
substantial amount of money and although any tax payment that became due would add to 
Ds liabilities and its overall  solvency  position,  they werent the societys concern in as much 
as they werent  debts  it was going  to take on. Nationwide  said it agreed to hold the money in 
a separate account to see how Ds plan and strategy unfolded. I think its most likely  
Nationwide agreed  to hold the money  to one side for a while  and there was a 
misunderstanding about what would eventually happen to the money if D wasnt  able to clear 
the outstanding loan.
Ive seen emails between Nationwide and Mr C from 2013. On 17 April 2013 Mr Cs solicitor 
asked if Nationwide  have credit approval  authorising the release of the mortgage. On       
16 May 2013 Mr C emailed Nationwide to say hed exchanged contracts  on W. He said hed 
met with a representative  from Nationwide whod agreed in principle to the sale proceeds 
being held in escrow until the next meeting where  a way forward could be agreed. He asked 
how and where  the money would be held but understood at that point it would  be held 
entirely to Nationwides  order. He also said D could continue if some  proceeds from the 
sale of W were  retained. Its clear  from this Mr D wanted to keep the money from the sale of 
W to cover Ds tax liabilities and understood  the money would be held to Nationwides  order 
while they discussed how to move forward. 
On 21 May 2013 Nationwide told Mr C a security  deposit account was being  opened to take 
the proceeds of the sale from W. That email says the money will be held by Nationwide  
under our mandate. I think this email  set out that the money wouldnt be held in escrow but 
by Nationwide  for its own use. However I do think Nationwide  should  have directly 
addressed Mr Cs point  that he wanted  to keep the money to cover the partners tax 
liabilities. It was a query  Mr C raised  in writing  and I dont think Nationwide  clearly answered 
him. 
I havent seen  anything to show Nationwide directly  addressed that point  until the following 
year. In an email, dated April 2014,  Mr C said all parties had worked throughout on an 
agreed basis that D would be left with enough  funds to cover the partners tax liabilities. In 
response Nationwide said there will be no option to cover the partners tax liabilities Im 
afraid and all efforts will be applied towards  retaining as much  value to reduce the significant 
losses that Nationwide has been  left with. 
While I can understand why Mr C might not have been clear initially  that Nationwide  
intended to keep the money to off-set against  Ds debts,  I think it was very clear from this 
email. And Ds reporting from that point onwards could have taken account of this.
I appreciate Mr C said he acted in good faith and without formal  agreement.  But I think  its 
more likely than not Nationwide  would have confirmed to Mr C in writing if it had agreed to D 
keeping almost £90,000  money  that the society was entitled to given  the debt D owed it 
and the agreement made which allowed the sale of W. Nationwide also said any agreement 
Ref: DRN23560494to return the money  would have needed signing off at a senior level and that process didnt  
happen. 
Nationwide needed  to provide details of the account to Mr Cs solicitors for the money to be 
paid into. I appreciate Nationwide  told Mr Cs solicitors the name of the account would be D. 
But I dont find it unreasonable that it would use that as a reference as the account  had been 
set up to receive the money from the sale. I also dont think the email  confirms the account 
was Ds. 
Nationwide said the account was set up by its employees and Mr C wasnt a signatory. I 
havent seen anything to suggest Mr C was a signatory of this account.  So I think  its most 
likely this was an internal account opened  by Nationwide for its own purposes and not Ds 
account. That means I dont think D is entitled to details of, or to receive, any interest  the 
account generated as the money belonged to Nationwide. 
Mr C also signed a debenture with Nationwide in 2004 which covered all Ds assets both at 
the time and in the future.  The debenture says it will be held as a security for all Ds debts 
and other  liabilities  owed  to Nationwide. 
Nationwide said the debenture  hasnt been released as the full debt hasnt been  paid.  I 
understand why Mr C feels that Nationwide had written-off his outstanding debts by 
providing him with an account statement that said Ds account having been  closed in March 
2016 with a nil balance. I think this was confusing  and Nationwide  should have been clear 
about the status of Ds outstanding debts as Mr C had asked for the information for the 
company accounts.  Im pleased to see that Nationwide  clarified  the amount outstanding on 
the loan in its final response letter.  
But thats not enough to persuade me the society shouldnt  have taken any further money  it 
was entitled to. Ds loan accounts may well have been closed but that doesnt necessarily 
mean the loan was written-off.  The terms of the debenture says it secures the debt and acts 
as a security even if the account has been  settled. 
Companies House  show the debenture having  been satisfied in 2016, so Mr C doesnt  think 
this means it should apply. But the £89,879.20 was transferred  to Nationwide in 2013 to 
release the charge on the property. Im satisfied  this was an internal account and Nationwide  
was entitled to keep the money  it received in 2013 for its own means.  So I dont think  
whether the debenture  applied at the time Nationwide moved the money from its own 
account is relevant.   
When considering  all the information  available  Im not persuaded that Nationwide  needs  to 
give D the money it received for W. It received the money in 2013 which is when it became 
the societys property.  Also,  I think its fair and reasonable  that Nationwide  would want to off-
set any money it was able to from the £4,000,000 D owed and it was entitled to do so. 
I think Nationwide should have been  clearer in answering Mr C when he asked  about  holding 
the money for the partners  tax liabilities  and for a statement. But I dont think  hes been  put 
in a worse position  than if it had been  clearer. I also dont think  it would produce a fair and 
reasonable outcome for me to award  any compensation for this given  that Nationwide isnt 
attempting to recover the outstanding debt from D. Mr C said if hed known the money  wasnt 
being kept for the partners tax liabilities he might  have  liquidated  the partnership  sooner. But 
I think this is unlikely as it seems from emails at the time that he was keen for D to keep 
Ref: DRN23560495trading. And Nationwides been clear since 2014  that the money wasnt being  held for the 
partners tax liabilities. 
Overall, I can understand Mr Cs frustration given  his belief  that Nationwide  was holding the 
money for the partners tax liabilities.  But I currently think the money was Nationwides and it 
was entitled to use it towards Ds outstanding  debt.  And while  Nationwide  should have been 
clearer when Mr C asked for the account information, it doesnt  mean  it had actually written-
off the debt or made  a mistake in off-setting the debt with the money  it received  to release 
the charge over W at the time it did. So I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
Nationwide didnt have  any further  comments in response to my provisional decision 
however Mr C strongly disagreed with it. He said the statements Nationwide  sent him clearly  
showed the balance of the debt had been  written-off  before it moved the money.  He also 
said Nationwide still hadnt accounted for the money  and it hadnt  provided him with any 
updated information about whether the loan was outstanding. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to depart 
from my provisional findings.  
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration with the wording on the statement. I dont think the statements  
Nationwide sent him in June 2016 were  clear and I can understand why he thought  the debt 
had been written-off due to the wording  used in them. However  Nationwide  wrote to Mr C in 
April 2017 to say there  was a final shortfall of £4,000,000 and it had transferred  £91,141.56  
to reduce that shortfall in August 2016.  In that letter it also said the funds in the security 
deposit account were  covered by the debenture from 2004, which required D to pay all 
money due. So I think  Nationwide was clear here that the debt hadnt been written-off.
I still dont think it would  produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint if I told 
Nationwide to give D £90,000  when D owed around £4,000,000  just because it was 
unclear in the wording of its statement. And I still havent seen anything  to persuade me that 
Nationwide being  unclear  between June 2016  and April 2017  caused D a loss. 
Im still satisfied the money was correctly transferred to Nationwides own account  in 2013 
when it released  the charge on W. In releasing  the charge  it kept the money as security 
against Ds loans.  And I think  it was fair and reasonable for it to ultimately use it to off-set  
some of the shortfall  of the debt because the money belonged to the society  and Ds loans 
hadnt been re-paid. 
Mr C said Nationwide hasnt provided  any update  about the balance of the loan. However I 
can see it confirmed details of the outstanding loan amount in April 2017 and in the follow  up 
to its final response letter  in December 2017. As the money from the sale of W belonged to 
Nationwide since 2013, I dont think any interest it accrued from that date belonged  to D. So 
Im not going  to ask Nationwide to provide any further details to Mr C about the money  within 
that account or interest  accrued on it. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for, but Im not going  to ask Nationwide 
to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN23560496My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN2356049