K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss B took out a PPI policy  for a mortgage  in 1997. Miss B paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her mortgage payments in case 
she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Miss B, I dont think this particular PPI policy  was mis-sold  
Ill go through my reasoning.
I certainly understand why Miss B would like to see evidence of how the PPI was applied for. 
But this sale was over two decades ago, and the account has long since  closed.  So its not 
surprising that neither  side have the documents from the time. Indeed, under data protection 
regulations, Halifax  were required to destroy  Miss Bs data rather than hold onto it for too 
long. Miss B doesnt  remember  taking out PPI, but I also think thats unsurprising,  given  just 
how long ago it was, and given that buying  insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought  
carefully about whats most likely  to have happened, based on the information I have.
Miss Bs mortgage was approved  and started without PPI. So by the time it was sold, she 
wouldve known that she didnt have to buy the policy to get approved for her mortgage.  It 
would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the PPI without Miss Bs 
permission, and Ive not got any evidence which shows thats  what  Halifax  did. Nor have 
I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. So I think  its more  likely than 
not that Halifax gave Miss B a choice about  buying  PPI, and that she chose to take it at the 
time  even  if, understandably, she no longer remembers  doing so.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss B, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  Miss B wasnt  
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. She said she had good sick 
pay through work, but the PPI offered more comprehensive cover, especially for when the 
sick pay reduced or ran out. And it doesnt look like Miss B had any other cover in case  she 
lost her job, aside from very limited  savings. Its worth bearing in mind  that Miss Bs 
mortgage was a very large, long-term  commitment, and there was no guarantee shed still 
have the same benefits or savings over the years. Importantly, the mortgage payments were 
Miss Bs sole responsibility, and if she fell behind on them she couldve lost her home. So 
I think the PPI couldve  been useful for Miss B in protecting her home and giving some 
peace of mind.
Ref: DRN20391282Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Miss B about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I explained above,  Miss B wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her if something went  
wrong. The policys cost wasnt  high, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And if 
Miss Bs circumstances changed,  she couldve cancelled  the PPI at any time without a 
penalty. So overall, I dont think that better  information was likely to have put Miss B off 
taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2039128