K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc has changed the service it offers  for 
telephone banking but it hasnt provided  reasonable adjustments for him to continue to 
access its services.
background
Mr H told us that NatWest recently  changed its telephone banking  system so its not 
available after 8pm except for lost cards.  He works  shifts so at times he can only use 
telephone banking at night. He can only use telephone banking because  he has difficulty  
using online and mobile banking. And he cant use automated cash  machines (ATM). He has 
also been refused  service  inside a branch because he went to the counter instead of using 
an AGM. A particular incident happened on 22 January 2019  which  embarrassed him and 
led to him having  to leave the branch.
When Mr H complained to NatWest it just offered him statements in braille  despite  him not 
being visually impaired,  it suggested adding a third party to his account despite him not having  
anything wrong  with his mental capacity, it thought he could  use its online webchat but that 
only directs him to telephone or online  banking,  and it suggested talking ATMs which  he hasnt  
yet found. So he doesnt think its made enough reasonable adjustments  for his condition. 
NatWest has given  him £25 compensation which he says is not adequate for the way hes 
been treated.  He wants NatWest to offer a 24 hour telephone banking  service again.
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  should  do anything more.  He explained that NatWests 
decision to change the way it operates its telephone banking system is a commercial  
decision and is not one we can ask it to change.  He said Mr Hs work  shifts wouldnt always 
stop him from phoning the bank during the day. And he could add a third party  to his account 
because that option is not just for someone who doesnt have the mental capacity to deal 
with their money.
He could see that the incident in the bank had distressed  Mr H particularly due to his 
condition. But the staff member who had dealt  with him in the queue  wouldnt have been 
aware of his condition  at the time. And the branch manager has offered  to explain the 
queuing system to Mr H personally when he next visits  the branch. So our investigator 
thought £25 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr H says that due to his shift pattern  he could  have to wait up to five days  to make his 
banking transactions  so he could miss payments. And he doesnt know anyone to add to his 
account as a third party. He doesnt  think these are reasonable adjustments.  And it would be 
belittling to have to go and speak to the branch manager which would involve him travelling 
35 miles to the branch.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr H wanted to speak  to an ombudsman on the phone  and I can see how strongly 
he feels about this. Having looked carefully  at all the evidence from both parties and 
considered carefully  all the points Mr H has raised with our investigator Im satisfied that isnt 
necessary and that I have enough  information  to make my decision.
Ref: DRN28066162As our investigator explained we cant ask NatWest  to change its decision to alter the way it 
offers telephone banking  to its customers. Thats  because our role is limited. We try to sort 
out individual complaints  between consumers and financial  institutions where  the consumer 
thinks he or she has lost out. We cant comment on processes which  apply to all or particular 
groups of consumers.  Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But we can 
look at Mr Hs experience  with those processes and see if anything has gone wrong.
Mr H says he cant access his bank account in the way hes previously been able to. But he 
is able to use the telephone banking service on the days hes not working. And I havent 
seen sufficient evidence  for me to conclude that hes missed payments since the change  or 
that hes been financially disadvantaged  by having to wait a few days  to use the telephone  
banking system. 
Mr H says he doesnt have anyone to add to his account as a third party and I can 
understand ow frustrating  that is if its an option  he wouldve liked to pursue. But as Ive 
already said he isnt prevented from accessing  his bank  account on those days  when hes 
not working or when his shifts allow.  
So although  I know Mr H wont agree with me I think NatWest has been fair and reasonable 
in responding  to his concerns about  its changes to its telephone banking  facility.
I agree  with our investigator that the staff member  in the local branch of NatWest  wouldnt 
have been aware  of the disability flags on his account while  he was in the queue. So they 
wouldnt have been aware how upsetting he found the situation. The bank manager  has 
offered to talk to him to explain the queuing  system next time hes in the branch. This wasnt a 
suggestion he should make a special  journey.  But when he next has to go into the branch on 
any matter NatWest said he should  ask to speak  to the manager.  I think thats reasonable.
NatWest has paid Mr H £25 compensation. For all the reasons Ive given  I think  thats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2806616