K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation to his 
central heating insurance policy. 
background
Mr Bs policy  with British Gas includes an annual service of his boiler. Mr B says British  Gas 
failed to contact  him on the anniversary of the previous boiler service (i.e. in January 2018)   
to book a new appointment, in accordance with his policy  terms. Mr B contacted British Gas 
by phone, as the system  didnt allow him to book  the service online,  and the earliest 
available appointment was 9 April 2018,  between 8am and 1pm. Mr B says he took time off 
work for this but at 9.20am on the day of the appointment, British Gas called to say it had 
cancelled the appointment. The appointment was re-arranged and British  Gas says it took 
place on 21 May 2018.  
Mr B is very unhappy with this and says British  Gas put his home  at risk by not maintaining  his 
boiler properly. He is also unhappy  with the time taken by British Gas to respond to his complaint. 
British Gas offered  Mr B £65 compensation for cancelling the original appointment in April 
2018. It also offered  £20 for the delay in processing this payment  and an additional £30 for 
the delay in resolving the matter, making  a total of £115.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt recommend that it be upheld.  The 
investigator determined  that British Gas had serviced the boiler in accordance  with the policy 
terms. She said British Gas was required to service the boiler within  the policy  year (which 
was from July 2017 to July 2018)  and as the service  was completed in May 2018,  it had 
complied with its policy. The investigator  didnt consider that there was evidence  of any risk 
or harm  caused by the service not being  done  sooner. The investigator considered that the 
offer made by British Gas was reasonable to reflect the inconvenience  caused by cancelling  
the initial appointment and the delay in sending that compensation. 
Mr B doesnt  accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been referred to 
me. Mr B wants the premium for the year to be refunded. He has made a number of points in 
support of his complaint, which Ive summarised  below: 
His terms and conditions clearly define  the interval for servicing as 12 months  based  on 
the date of the last one. 
British Gass  HomeCare Guide  highlights the Health and Safety Executive requirements 
for regular servicing. This is a serious  issue and the Health and Safety Executive does 
not mean  a woolly interpretation of annually, it means every 12 months.
British Gas is in dubious  territory in trying  to avoid their responsibilities and they should  
know betterIt  appears therefore  unlawful that they should flaunt the regulations and fob 
customers off with their definition or interpretation  of Annual that only suits themselves. 
He had already taken  time off work  on the day the appointment was cancelled  and it 
was too late to change that. The compensation offered does not take into account the 
trouble and effort he has expended and time lost at work.
Ref: DRN25450422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas is obliged  to carry out a service of the boiler each policy  year. I agree with Mr B 
that this should reasonably be at roughly 12 month intervals. However, the policy does state  
that it may not be possible to always do it at 12 month intervals but British Gas will carry out 
a service in every policy year. 
British Gas did carry out a service  within the policy year, however, this was around 16 
months after the previous one. Even if I accepted  that was unreasonable, I dont agree with 
Mr B that this means  that British Gas should  refund the entire years premium.  I have  to 
consider the fair and reasonable remedy to reflect that delay, and the other  issues raised,  
having take account of all the circumstances. 
British Gas cancelled  the appointment on the day and I can appreciate the frustration and 
inconvenience this would  have caused.  However,  there is no evidence to support  Mr Bs 
assertion that this put his home at risk. There is no evidence  that there was any fault or issue  
with the boiler  at all, and certainly no fault or issue that was made worse by a delay in 
servicing the boiler. British Gas did service the boiler and it would have had to attend if any 
faults had appeared before it carried out the service. In addition,  it is not compulsory to 
complete a service  every 12 months.  Mr B says British Gas has breached  the law in this 
regard and also makes  a comparison with an MOT on a car. However,  a valid MOT is a 
statutory requirement,  but that is not the case here.    
Given this, I dont agree it is appropriate  for the entire premium  to be refunded. Overall, I am 
satisfied that the total compensation of £115  for the delay  in the servicing  of the boiler; failing 
to contact Mr B on the anniversary  of his boiler service to arrange  the next one; the other 
delays; and cancellation of the appointment is reasonable and in line with the awards  we 
make for similar cases. 
Finally, I understand  that British Gas didnt  provide a substantive response to Mr Bs 
complaint within  the eight  weeks that it should have  done. I can appreciate that Mr B would  
have wanted this relatively simple complaint dealt with sooner. However, he was provided 
with referral rights to this service within the time required. I do not consider that any further 
award is warranted in relation to this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2545042