K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Miss W complain that Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) in connection with their mortgage. 
background
In 2005 Mr G and Miss W took out a mortgage  with Yorkshire in a meeting  at one of its 
branches. They bought  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  alongside the mortgage.
The PPI cover was split between Mr G and Miss W. It provided  a 50% benefit in the event 
Mr G couldnt work  because he lost his job or 50% benefit if Miss W couldnt work if she lost 
her job. The policy provided 100% benefit  if both became  unemployed. 
The policy cost £30.81 a month and the 100% benefit provided a £1068 monthly payment.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for unemployment for up to 
12 months per claim.
The mortgage and the PPI closed  in November 2010.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr G and Miss Ws complaint. The adjudicator  said the 
evidence showed  that Mr G and Miss W chose  to take out the PPI and there was nothing  to 
indicate theyd  lost out as a result.
Mr G and Miss W disagree so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Yorkshire says this was a non-advised sale, but Mr G and Miss W say the PPI was 
recommended to them. As it makes no difference to the decision Ive reached, Ill assume 
that it was an advised  sale, in other words that Yorkshire did recommend the PPI to 
Mr G and Miss W and advised them to take it. This means Yorkshire  had to provide 
Mr G and Miss W not only with good enough  information about the policy  so they could  
make an informed decision about it. It also had to ensure the policy  was right or suitable for 
them based  on their needs and circumstances  at the time. Ive taken this into account in my 
consideration of the case.
did Yorkshire make it clear to Mr G and Miss W  that they had a choice about  PPI?
Yorkshire has provided a copy  of Mr G and Miss Ws application  form for the mortgage.  It 
shows a question on the form asking them if they wish to take the PPI and gives the 
opportunity to tick yes or no. There is a tick by the yes box option  indicating they were 
choosing to take it out, and they have both signed the application  form. They also signed  a 
separate application form specifically for the PPI. They were offered accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover  and chose only to take unemployment cover  and to split the benefit 
50/50. This suggests  to me that there was a discussion  and that Mr G and Miss W made 
Ref: DRN24050762choices. Theyve also said that they were advised  by their broker  to take PPI and that they 
took it for belts and braces.
So I think its more likely  than not that Mr G and Miss W chose to take out the PPI based on 
the recommendation and information Yorkshire  provided to them.
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr G and Miss  W properly 
advised and informed?
if not  have Mr G and Miss W lost out?
I dont know what Yorkshire  said or did when  it recommended the PPI to Mr G and Miss W. I 
also dont know what information  Mr G and Miss W were given about PPI. I dont know 
whether the policys  benefits were explained to them or if they were told about  the significant  
exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr G and Miss W agreed to take the 
cover out knowing very little about it, but I dont know if they received everything they 
needed to know  to allow them to make an informed  decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Yorkshire recommended to Mr G and Miss W that they take out PPI. I accept 
Mr G and Miss W may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr G and Miss W have lost out as a 
result. I say this because, given Mr G and Miss Ws circumstances  and needs in 2005, I 
think the policy cover was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr G and Miss W 
would have acted  differently and not gone  ahead with the cover if Yorkshire had provided 
better information. My reasons are as follows:
Mr G and Miss W were eligible for their cover  and all its benefits.
Mr G and Miss W were employed  and it doesnt  appear they would have  been  
affected by any of the key exclusions / limitations  of their cover such as unusual  
employment terms. 
The mortgage provided for their home.  Mr G and Miss W both had income which  
could have helped  them make  the mortgage payments if either lost his or her job. 
And they say had substantial savings. But the policy would have paid out in addition 
to any redundancy  pay and for up to 12 months  for each claim. So I think  
Mr G and Miss W had a need  for their cover and that it would have been useful to 
them if either had found themselves unemployed. It could  have helped  them  
financially at what would be a difficult time  it would have enabled  them to keep their 
savings for other purposes and it could have  helped them protect  their home.
I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented  to Mr G and Miss W but I find it 
unlikely they would have agreed  to something  without having some  understanding of 
the cost. I note that the PPI policy schedule  they received showed the full cost and 
benefit. But even  if they didnt see this at the time,  I think  its unlikely they would have  
declined the PPI solely on the basis of its cost. Ive already said they had a need  for it 
and at just over £30 per month  it appears to have  been  affordable.  And as they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further  cost if at any stage  
their situation changed  or they no longer wanted it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policies were sold and 
Mr G and Miss W may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably by Yorkshire in its 
dealings with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons 
Ive detailed above, I think Mr G and Miss W chose to take out the PPI and they would have 
Ref: DRN24050763been in the same position if Yorkshire  had done more and properly advised and informed 
them - I think they would have still taken it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr G and Miss W have not lost out as a result 
of taking out PPI policies  with their mortgage, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2405076