K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained Santander UK plcs delay in removing a fraud-related marker from his 
record resulted in substantial financial loss.
background
In March 2019 Mr H discovered thered been a fraud-related marker placed  on his record.  
This had resulted in him being turned down for refinancing of a commercial  mortgage. He 
complained to Santander once hed discovered how and why the marker had been  placed 
on his record.
Santander refused  to remove  it despite Mr H showing thered been an error behind their 
original reason for lodging it in the first place. Mr H was upset with this and brought  his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included what had been  given to us by the 
company (who Ill call S) that had turned  down  Mr Hs refinancing.  She didnt think it was 
clear that the CIFAS marker was the only reason Mr Hs refinance application was turned 
down. In the meantime shed got Santander  to remove the marker and theyd offered £300 
for the inconvenience  caused which she thought was fair.
Mr H didnt think this was enough or took account  of what had happened. He felt £2,000  
would be a fairer  amount.  As no resolution could be agreed, his complaint has been referred 
to an ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
There are two main aspects of this complaint and Ill consider both.
was Santander  wrong  in not removing the CIFAS  marker?
Mr H had originally applied for a personal  loan with Santander three  years  ago. This 
application was rejected  and he thought  nothing  more of it.  
As it turned out Santander thought Mr H had misled  them in not being truthful in his loan 
application. Hed not mentioned information theyd discovered whilst doing a credit check. 
Santander lodged  a marker on Mr Hs record as they felt hed misled them and committed 
application fraud.
Mr H only found out in March 2019, after S had rejected his application to refinance, that 
there was a CIFAS marker against him. He wrote to Santander immediately to show the 
information theyd  found out about  him was the result of an error. He was able to evidence  
this by court documents. Hed not deliberately attempted to mislead Santander.
Theres no dispute that Santander acted  on what was available to them  in January 2017 
when they first lodged  the information about Mr H. So I dont believe any fault lies with them 
Ref: DRN29475972for lodging  the original  marker. As it is, Mr H didnt discover this existed for more  than two 
years so for most of that period  I cant see there  was any real impact.  
But when Mr H first approached Santander  by recorded delivery  and then by phone  Im 
not sure why Santander thought it shouldnt remove  the marker. Ive reviewed the evidence 
Mr H shared with Santander. Its clear  to me the information on his original  credit  record was 
a mistake which wasnt of his making. The information Mr H shared shows this issue has 
now been resolved.
Im aware as Mr H never ended up being  a customer  of Santander,  the information they hold 
about him is limited  and this will have  caused them some difficulties in resolving this. To be 
fair as soon  as we made Santander  aware  of the problems the marker was causing Mr H, 
they agreed to remove it. This was done  in early September 2019. But I believe they should  
have done this when Mr H first approached them. So its fair that Santander pay Mr H for the 
problems caused.  This leads me to the next issue and whether Mr H suffered any financial 
loss.
what financial loss was caused by this CIFAS marker?
Mr H was under financial  pressure and was looking to refinance his business  mortgage. He 
was turned down  by S in March 2019. He was told this was because of information held 
about Mr H by either credit reference  agencies or CIFAS. So we asked S about  this.
Its certainly true that the CIFAS marker showed  up in Ss searches  and because  of this 
information they rejected his application.  If this marker hadnt shown up in searches, S has 
confirmed they still would  not have  continued with the application. This is because of the 
nature of the borrowing  Mr H was looking  for. Im not going to disagree with the information 
S has given  us. I have  no choice to say theres  no significant financial loss here.
Id also make a further observation. Weve been  given information  about how much  Mr H 
would have saved  if hed borrowed with S rather than his existing lender. But I can see this is 
a different type of lending. This would have involved moving to an interest-only loan. Whilst 
Mr H may have  saved money  in having a mortgage  with S as his monthly payments would 
have been much lower,  this isnt directly comparable to his existing borrowing. Hed have  
been giving  up any gain in equity in return.
Santander has offered  £300 for the inconvenience of a marker being on Mr Hs record for the 
period of six months in 2019 when  he was aware  of this. Overall I think this is a fair offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Santander UK plc to pay Mr H 
£300 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2947597