K821x#15complaint
Mr M says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) lent to him irresponsibly. Mr M says he 
was constantly  taking out loans to repay other  borrowing as he was in considerable debt.  He 
also says he had problems setting up a repayment plan when he was in financial difficulties. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. QuickQuid disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are attached and 
form part of this final decision. 
QuickQuid, and Mr M, received my provisional  decision. Mr M didnt have anything to add to it.
QuickQuid didnt agree with my provisional  decision.  It said that the checks it made were 
proficient and they didnt raise any red flags.  The information it had showed that Mr M could 
afford the repayments.  There was also substantial breaking periods within  the final three  loans.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision I havent  placed  much weight on the checks  and 
information that QuickQuid took at the start of the lending. This is because Mr M was having 
significant problems  making the repayments to the lending he already had with QuickQuid. 
Its not reasonable to say that the checks QuickQuid did indicated that Mr M was unlikely to 
have problems repaying the lending  when in reality he already was.  
And I did talk about the breaks  in lending in my provisional  decision.  So briefly,  in between 
loans 3 and 4 Mr M applied for other  loans that were  declined.  And he took over a year and 
a half to repay loan 4. So I dont think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to assume that 
Mr Ms financial situation had improved even though there was times between  loans 4 and 
loan 5 when he didnt have any active loans with QuickQuid. 
So, overall, I dont  think QuickQuid raised any new points after receiving my provisional  
decision. So Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr M paid from October 2013  on loan 2 and all the 
interest and charges  he paid on loans 3 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative  information about  the interest and charges on loan 2, from October  
2013 onwards, from Mr Ms credit  file;
the number of loans  taken from loan 3 onwards means any information recorded about  
them is adverse.  So all entries  about loans  3 to 5 should be removed from Mr Ms credit  file.
Ref: DRN27317552If Mr M still owes QuickQuid any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan 
QuickQuid should  remove all the interest  and charges applied  to the outstanding balance. 
QuickQuid should  then re-work the account as if all payments made  by Mr M went  to 
towards the principal.  But importantly, QuickQuid needs to make  sure that Mr M doesnt 
repay more  than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr M hasnt repaid the principal  he borrowed QuickQuid can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr M has already paid enough  to repay  the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
And if QuickQuid no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27317553extract from my provisional  decision
This complaint is about  four payday loans and one running credit account  QuickQuid provided to 
Mr M between  January  2013 and April 2017. Some of the information QuickQuid has provided about  
this lending is here:
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 07/01/2013 £200 50
1a 16/02/2013 £200 3824/05/2013
2 27/05/2013 £400 88 27/12/2013
3 27/12/2013flex credit  with £1,500  
borrowing limit14/06/2014
4 08/01/2015 £300 78 27/09/2016
5 29/04/2017 £300 89 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought QuickQuid shouldnt have approved loans 
4 and 5. QuickQuid disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
QuickQuid needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr M could repay  the loans  
in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given  loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments  being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  this is the 
case. The industry regulator  defines  sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  
as well as without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make  their repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ref: DRN27317554Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.  Ive provisionally decided  to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part 
and have explained why below.
Mr M didnt disagree  with our adjudicators opinion about QuickQuids decisions to approve loans 1, 
1a and 2. Because  of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this initial lending.  So 
I wont be making a decision about this part of Mr Ms complaint. 
But I have looked how Mr M made the repayments to these loans and the overall  borrowing  
relationship he had with QuickQuid over this time. And Ive taken  this into account when  Ive thought 
about the other loans he took.
I think  that Mr M first started showing signs of repayment  problems within  loan 1. He doubled the 
amount that he borrowed  and increased the time he wanted to repay  it at the same time.  He also 
extended the loan again  at a later date. In total he took just under five months to repay this loan. I 
think this is a long time to repay a relatively  modest payday  loan. 
Mr M took loan 2, for the same total amount as he borrowed for loan 1, a few days after loan 1 was 
repaid. Mr M was due to repay this over three months with two repayments of £100 and then one of 
£500. But Mr M again  had problems  repaying  this loan. He extended  it in August 2013 and again in 
September 2013 when he was due to make  the larger  final repayments.  Mr M took around seven 
months to repay  this loan.  
By the time Mr M extended  loan 2 for the second  time hed had a borrowing  relationship with 
QuickQuid for over nine months. He had owed  QuickQuid around the same amount of money over 
much of this time and seemed unable  to fully repay it. I think it was clear that Mr M couldnt 
sustainably repay his lending. And I think QuickQuid should have  exercised forbearance  and stopped 
charging interest at this time. So I currently think the last two interest charges  Mr M paid on loan 2, 
those from October 2013 onwards, should be refunded to Mr M. 
And going forward the pattern of QuickQuids  lending  history with Mr M is such that QuickQuid should  
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  And so 
QuickQuid should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further loans. I think that this point 
was reached by loan 3. I say this because:
as Ive outlined above Mr M was demonstrating that he was unable to sustainably repay  his 
earlier lending. And this had been  going on for some time before this loan. 
up to this loan the amounts Mr M was borrowing  had not been decreasing, and going  forward he 
borrowed higher amounts within the running  credit  account  
so QuickQuid  ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having  to borrow  
further to cover the hole repaying his previous  loans,  or the interest he paid to extend his loans, 
was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably
Mr M wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount he owed QuickQuid. Loan 5 was taken  out 
over 4 years after Mr Ms first. He had paid large amounts  of interest to, in effect, service  a debt 
to QuickQuid  over an extended period.
I can see there was a break in the lending between loans  3 and 4 but Mr M applied  for loans 
within this period. So I dont  think  it was reasonable for QuickQuid to assume that Mr Ms 
circumstances had improved
and there  was also a break  between loans 4 and 5. But Mr M had taken over a year and half to 
repay loan 4, which was a £300 payday loan. And, as far as QuickQuid was aware  Mr Ms 
circumstances hadnt changed. So even with this break. I cant  see why QuickQuid thought it was 
reasonable to lend the same amount, on the same repayment  terms,  to Mr M. 
Ref: DRN27317555I think  that Mr M lost out because QuickQuid  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 3 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging  Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit over an extended period of time
the sheer  number of loans and extensions was likely  to have had negative implications on Mr Ms 
ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost loans
So Im also planning to uphold  Mr Ms complaint about loans 3 to 5 and QuickQuid should  put things right.  
Ref: DRN2731755