K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Shawbrook Bank  Limited rejected her claim under  section 75.
background
Mrs C was supplied with a new kitchen and entered into a fixed  sum loan agreement  with 
Shawbrook.
During installation  it was discovered that the supplier had misunderstood Mrs Cs 
requirements for a cooker. It was agreed that an alternative cooker  would be provided which  
was a significant upgrade to the model  initially ordered, resulting in an increased cost of 
£7,182.50. The supplier agreed with Mrs C that she would pay £3700  of this. Mrs C paid 
£3000 by credit card and agreed to pay the balance of £700 once the installation was 
complete.
Mrs C is unhappy about the length  of time it took to install the kitchen.  Shes also unhappy  
about the quality of the installation. She wants the balance of £700 written  off and a refund 
of £3000.
In response, Shawbrook  said that Mrs C had agreed to pay £3700 for the alternative  cooker  
and that the £700 remained outstanding.  It also said the supplier  had advised  that the 
kitchen had been installed to showroom standard and within  an acceptable timeframe.
Mrs C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said it wasnt  reasonable to ask for the 
£700 to be waived and the £3000 refunded because Mrs C had agreed to those terms. In 
relation to the installation the investigator  was satisfied that there  had been delay and design 
failures. He said Shawbrook should  refund a sum equivalent to 75% of the installation cost.
Shawbrook didnt agree.  It said Mrs C was responsible for some of the delay and that the 
compensation suggested was excessive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or the provider of credit if theres  been a breach of contract  or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  I would  need  to be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation  and that Shawbrooks  
response under section  75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant  law says the goods must  be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply,  and that the services should have been performed with reasonable skill and 
care. If this isnt the case then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
I can see that the supplier  has acknowledged that it misunderstood Mrs Cs requirements  for 
a cooker. It arranged for an alternative  cooker to be supplied and agreed with Mrs C that she 
would only be responsible for 50% of the additional  costs.
Ref: DRN23510682I understand Mrs Cs frustration. But on balance, and because she entered  into an 
agreement with the supplier for an alternative  cooker and agreed to pay half of the cost, I 
dont think its reasonable to ask Shawbrook to waive the £700 or refund the £3000  because 
the alternative cooker was supplied as agreed and theres no evidence  to suggest that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In relation to the installation, Ive looked  at the photos provided by Mrs C. I can see that 
there are gaps which were created when the alternative cooker  was fitted into the existing 
design specification.  I can also see that the extractor  hood  is smaller than the cooker which 
again is due to the alternative cooker being  fitted into the existing design  specification. I cant  
say that Mrs C was responsible for this because  it was the suppliers error in ordering, 
supplying and designing the kitchen  around a cooker which wasnt  suitable for Mrs Cs 
requirements which has caused these issues. Further  photographs  show that Mrs Cs old 
kitchen was removed  on 21 June 2017  but that the installation wasnt  completed  for several 
months, leaving her without a functioning sink for approximately 3 months and without 
cooking facilities for approximately 6 months.
Shawbrook has relied on the testimony  of the supplier  that the kitchen was installed to 
showroom standard.  Having  looked  at the pictures  provided by Mrs C, I dont  agree that 
these show an installation  of showroom standard.
Shawbrook has also said that Mrs C was responsible for the delay because  she didnt sign 
the variation of contract documents  for 4 months.  Ive looked at these  documents and I can 
see that they were  issued  to Mrs C on 7 July 2017  and signed by her on 11 July 2017. So 
Im unable to agree  that Mrs C was responsible for any delay.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im satisfied that the installation  fell below the standard which 
a reasonable person would expect,  both in terms of quality of workmanship and timescale. 
Im of the view that theres enough  evidence  to suggest that theres been a breach of 
contract.
In these circumstances Id expect Shawbrook to take steps to put things right.  Mrs C has 
said she doesnt want the extractor  hood  replaced because it would involve further disruption 
and require existing  fitted units to be removed  and replaced. The standard  of installation  
around the cooker looks poor and I think its fair to recognise this by refunding  a significant 
part of the installation costs.
The delay in completing the installation  and leaving Mrs C without essential facilities  is a 
significant factor here. Neither the supplier nor Shawbrook  has provided any reasonable 
explanation for the delay. Theres no evidence to suggest that Mrs C was responsible  for any 
of the delay. The absence of running  water and cooking facilities  is more than snagging and 
isnt what a reasonable person would  expect from an installation.
In the circumstances, I think its reasonable to ask Shawbrook  to refund the majority of the 
installation costs to reflect the poor standard of installation and the excessive delay, as well 
as the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C.
Ref: DRN23510683my final decision
My final decision is that Shawbrook Bank Limited must refund 75% of the installation costs  to 
Mrs C, amounting to £2,287.54.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2351068