K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc caused them to incur  additional  costs  
when it processed a payment.
Mr T complains on behalf of them both.
background
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs T sold a lodge home and put the funds towards  the purchase of 
a new-build property in another part of the county. The £248,000  sale proceeds of the lodge  
were received in Mr Ts Barclays account around 11.25am  on 28 January. Once received, 
he visited his local branch and made two transfers  to his solicitors  account to fund the 
purchase of the new property. He transferred £15,000 directly himself  but the larger transfer  
of around £266,000 was made  by CHAPS (Clearing House Automated Payment System). 
He completed the application form and paid the £20 fee. He wanted the payment 
expressed which  Barclays said wasnt possible.  But he was told the funds would be 
received by 5pm the same day, and should normally  take a couple  of hours. 
Two hours later Mr T contacted the estate agent hoping  to collect the keys,  but the funds 
hadnt been received. So he contacted  his solicitor who confirmed  receipt of the £15,000 but 
not the larger amount. Mr T made enquiries  of Barclays which directed him to its payment  
centre. The Barclays adviser just reiterated the service standard that any payments made 
before 3.30pm would  clear by 5pm. Mr T thought  this wasnt  acceptable for an urgent 
transaction. The funds were received  in the solicitors account at 4.59pm which was too late 
to complete the purchase that day. 
Because of this, Mr T had to pay the removal company to hold his belongings overnight  and 
stay in a hotel, which meant buying  a meal  and toiletries. Mr T calculates hes out of pocket 
by £1,500 which he thinks Barclays should  refund, as hes been  a customer for over 40 
years, and is in poor health. He says when he phoned Barclays to chase  the funds, nobody  
helped him, and a member of staff laughed  when he mentioned hed be homeless.  
Barclays said it complied with the terms of the same day payment service, which was that 
any payments made by the branch cut off deadline of 3.30pm would be processed by 5pm 
that business day. The payment was authorised  in branch at 12.03pm  but not fully 
processed until 4.48pm  which was within  the timescale. It didnt think anyone had laughed 
at Mr T. Nonetheless it offered him £50 as a gesture of goodwill in respect of the phone  call 
he was unhappy  with. Mr T thought this was derogatory,  so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays had done  anything wrong. He didnt dispute Mr T was 
unable to complete  his purchase until the next day, but he couldnt  hold Barclays responsible 
for that. And he noted it had offered  £50 for the phone  call, as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr T wanted an ombudsmans  decision. So the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint..  Having done so, Im not going to uphold  
it. Let me explain why.
Ref: DRN29152082Ive seen a copy  of the Confirmation of payment instruction  letter given to Mr T by his 
branch. It says the payment  was processed as a Same Day Domestic  Payment  and if the 
Payment is processed before 3.30pm  the beneficiary should receive the payment on the 
same working day. Mr T had to initial various  sections of the form and then sign it, so I think  
he had the opportunity to read it carefully.  
Mr T admits he didnt  give Barclays a deadline,  although he let them know  the payment 
related to a property  purchase, and hed have preferred an express service, which Barclays 
doesnt offer. He was told payments normally take about two hours, so I think he relied on 
this, which  is why he contacted the estate agent  at 2pm. Given what it says on the form and 
what he was told in the branch, I cant say Barclays led Mr T to believe the payment would 
be received by 3pm. 
In support of his complaint Mr T says chains of property purchases could fail if payments 
arent made on time.  But Mr Ts purchase  wasnt part of a chain in the usual way, where the 
various parties solicitors  are responsible for coordinating the transactions and transferring 
funds on completion  day. Mr Ts purchase involved a number of separate transactions  which  
werent coordinated. He sold his lodge privately and says it wasnt possible for the funds to 
be sent direct to his solicitor - they had to be credited to his account first. Mr T then made 
two payments to his solicitor who was then responsible for passing the funds to the builder. 
The branch  staff may have been  right to say most payments are completed within two hours. 
But thats not a commitment  for every  payment.  And while it wasnt necessary in this case, 
the form also warns that for security reasons the payments team  may call to verify a 
payment. Which I think puts customers on notice some payments may be delayed. I think  
the 3pm timescale  was always  going to be tight,  given the payment wasnt  authorised  by the 
branch until 12.03  and then had to be processed  by the payments team.  And the funds were 
received at 4.59pm, which is before 5pm, albeit by only one minute. So I cant  say Barclays  
didnt meet the terms of its same day payment service. 
Ive no doubt Mr T was put to some inconvenience  and expense by not being able to move 
into his new property that day. He had to pay the removal company to store  his belongings  
overnight, stay in a hotel and eat out. And it must have  been stressful effectively being  
homeless for a night. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for any of that. I know  that whilst  Barclays  didnt 
think Mr T had been laughed at, it offered  Mr T £50 for the call handling.  Ill leave it with Mr T 
to accept this offer if he now wishes to.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2915208