K820x#14complaint
Mr B, on behalf of Mr and Mrs P, has complained  that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) didnt 
advise them about a change to their home insurance policy  and as a result their claim for 
water damage was unfairly  declined.
background
Mr and Mrs P have  had a home insurance  policy with UKI since 2011.
From the time their policy was renewed in 2017 UKI excluded any liability  for water damage 
caused by the lack of grouting  or sealant. UKI says it would have drawn Mr and Mrs Ps 
attention to this change  in their cover in an additional leaflet which it would have enclosed 
with their renewal documentation. Mr and Mrs P say they never saw this.
In 2018 Mr P contacted UKI about  water damage. He said it had probably been  caused by 
defective mastic (sealant).  Mr and Mrs P say UKI told them  they werent covered for this 
damage. They had a new bathroom installed.  They think UKI should make a reasonable 
contribution towards  their costs.
UKI says it never declined  the claim. But it did make Mr and Mrs P aware that damage 
caused by the failure or lack of grouting or sealant  wasnt covered. It also asked for a report 
confirming the cause of damage which it hasnt received.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  their complaint. An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
It doesnt  appear to be disputed that the cause of the water damage  was the failure  or lack 
of sealant. Given  the exclusion in their policy, I agree that Mr and Mrs P arent covered for 
any loss or damage  arising from this.
The main  issue for me to decide is whether UKI did enough to make  Mr and Mrs P aware 
that this type of damage was no longer covered by their policy and if it didnt,  whether  that 
adversely affected  Mr and Mrs P.
Ive seen the renewal  letter UKI sent to Mr P. It said:
If we have  made any changes to the terms of your policy, they will be detailed in an 
important notice which will be included in this pack and which you should read.
The documentation  which Mr and Mrs P did receive included a document  summarising the 
main features of the policy. It is two pages  long. On the first page  it mentions that damage  
caused by the failure, wear and tear or lack of grouting or sealant isnt covered.
UKI says that according to its system records it would have also sent Mr and Mrs P a two 
page document headed Important information  about your Home Plus policy. This document 
said that UKI had made some changes to the policy from the renewal date. The changes  
were listed  on the second  page. It started:
We have added the following wording to your policy:
Ref: DRN28158172Policy Conditions
This policy doesnt cover:
Loss or damage  as a result of the lack of maintenance and/or routine decoration.
Damage caused by the failure,  wear and tear or lack of grouting or sealant.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative says they never  saw a copy of this leaflet although they 
received the rest of the renewal paperwork. He says it may not have been enclosed, they 
may have  accidentally left it in the envelope or disregarded it as unimportant  marketing  
material.
Even if Im prepared to accept UKI may not have done enough to make Mr and Mrs P aware 
of the changes to their policy,  that wont necessarily lead to me upholding their complaint. 
Thats because if theres been a failure by the business in how it sold or administered a 
policy, I also look at whether the consumer suffered a loss as a result.
If Mr and Mrs P had been aware of the new exclusions to their policy, there would have been 
three options open to them. The first would have been for them  to continue with the same 
policy knowing about the exclusion. If theyd  done so, theyd be in the same position as they 
are now with their claim rejected. The second  option  would have  been  to go without  
insurance altogether.  But again that would have  left them unable to make a claim.
The third option  would  have been for them to look for alternative cover  elsewhere. However,  
although not all policies specifically exclude cover  for damage  caused  by a lack of grouting 
or sealant, most  standard home  insurance policies do exclude  cover for damage caused  by 
wear and tear or a lack of maintenance or gradually  occurring damage. Other  insurers  may 
well have relied upon any one of these  to decline a claim  for damage arising from a failure of 
grouting or sealant.  On balance I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would have purchased 
another policy that would  have covered them for this damage.
In summary even if UKI didnt do enough to draw  Mr and Mrs Ps attention to the new 
exclusions in their policy, I dont think this adversely affected them.  Thats because even if 
Mr and Mrs P had known about the exclusion, they probably still wouldnt have had any 
cover for the claim that UKI rejected.
UKI had no comment on my provisional  decision. Mr B confirmed it had been received and 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any comment  on my provisional decision,  I see no reason to change it. 
So my provisional findings  have now become final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN28158173Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2815817