K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the time it took Elite Insurance Company Limited (Elite) to settle  a 
claim he made under his home insurance  policy. 
background
Mr G needed to make a claim under his home insurance policy, following damage  at his 
property caused  an escape of water. Elite accepted  the claim  and agreed to provide a 
settlement amount of £2,450.
But, the payment  of this settlement was delayed. Mr G said that because of this he had to 
take the funds  out of his own savings  to pay for the repair work. And, therefore  he lost out on 
interest on this these funds. 
Elite agreed it had delayed in making payment to Mr G. But, it said this delay had been 
unavoidable. It explained that it had needed  to adopt a restricted payments protocol because  
it had been affected by the appointment of an interim  liquidator.  And, it needed to make sure 
it treated all its creditors fairly. It also said it had provided updates to its customer in the 
form of statements. And, it had sent letters  to Mr G providing him with updates on the 
situation. 
Following the lifting  of the restricted  payments  protocol Elite has now paid Mr G the 
settlement amount he was owed. But, because he said he had lost out on an amount of 
interest on his own money  and had needed  to go to the inconvenience of raising the 
problems he experienced  he felt it would be fair for Elite to pay him an amount of £100 
compensation.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He said Elite had maintained  its settlement offer 
to Mr G throughout the restricted payment  protocol,  and had tried to regularly update  its 
creditors to update them on the situation.  But, he noted Mr G had needed to use his own 
funds, so he was out of pocket when until the money was returned  to him. And, he said 
because Mr G wouldve been  uncertain  about the payment of his claim,  he felt it was fair to 
compensate Mr G for this upset. So, he thought  Elite should pay Mr G interest on the claim 
value, as well as £100 compensation. 
Mr G agreed with our investigators opinion.  But Elite didnt agree. It said the above  protocol 
was put in place to treat all of its creditors equitably.  And whilst  Mr G wouldve been  
inconvenienced by this situation  Elite had acted in the best interests  of its policyholders  by 
ensuring Elite continued to operate and support its policyholders.
Because Elite didnt  agree this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint, for the same reasons  as our investigator.
Both parties  have accepted there were delays in issuing the payment to Mr G, and that this 
was because of the restricted payments protocol in place. So, Ive not needed to consider 
whether there was a delay in the payment being made to Mr G. 
Ref: DRN20491592Instead, what Ive needed  to consider is whether Mr G lost out due to this delay. I appreciate  
Elite has said it needed  to adopt a restricted payments protocol to protect its policyholders.  
And that explained  said it issued statements telling its policyholders  what was happening 
with the business, with update letters being sent to Mr G.
But, Mr G has explained that because of the delay in the payment being made he had to use 
his own savings to cover the loss, until he was reimbursed by Elite. And this led to him losing 
out on interest on these  funds. Given this, Im satisfied that whilst the delay in issuing the 
payment to Mr G was explained, he did still suffer  a financial loss as a result  of the delay. 
And I dont  think Mr G should lose out before  of the difficulties Elite was experiencing. So, 
Im satisfied Elite should pay Mr G interest on the £2,450 claim figure, as detailed below.
I can also understand that whilst  waiting for his claim  to be paid Mr G wouldve been 
concerned about  whether his was going to receive any payment for this loss. Or, when any 
agreed payment  might  be provided to him. So, I do think  it would be fair for Elite to pay
Mr G an amount of £100 compensation as I think this accurately reflects the worry and 
inconvenience Mr G experienced whilst awaiting for the payment to be made.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Elite Insurance 
Company Limited  to;
Pay an amount of 8% interest simple per annum  on the claim  value of £2,450,  from 
the date Mr G paid this sum, to the date of settlement.1
Pay Mr G an amount  of £100  compensation for the upset and inconvenience he 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
1 Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.  If Elite Insurance Company Limited deducts income tax from 
the interest it should  tell Mr G how much  has been taken off.  Elite Insurance Company Limited should give Mr G 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN2049159