K820x#14complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  when he took out a 
credit card with Barclays Bank  UK PLC. He says he has no recollection  of agreeing  to PPI 
and wasnt even aware he had it.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
Im sorry  theres been a bit of a delay in us making  a final decision  in this case. However this 
has been due to the company representing  Mr M changing and it being required to re-
register with the Financial Conduct Authority.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Mr M thinks he took out his credit  card on-line but I dont think thats quite right.  I can see he 
actually took out the card with a postal application. Im not surprised he doesnt remember 
this as it was back in 2002,  obviously  now some  17 years ago.
But Barclays  sent us his original application form which shows  he didnt ask for any PPI with 
the credit  card and it wasnt added  to his account at that time. From Barclays  computerised  
records, we can say the PPI was added later, in December 2003.  Its not clear  how the PPI 
was sold to him but in my experience its more likely to have been by way of a phone  call. 
As the PPI was added  to Mr Ms credit  card account over a year after he got the card, Mr M 
would, in my opinion, have known it wasnt compulsory. This is because hed been operating 
his card without any PPI for some time. 
He said he wasnt aware of the PPI and Im sure this is his honest recollection now. But I 
think his credit card statements would have started to show the PPI being charged  on his 
account at the beginning of 2004. These wouldnt have  previously  been  shown on his 
monthly statements. And because they were probably described as Payment Insurance  
Plan (or something very similar), I think Mr M would have become aware  the PPI policy  had 
been set up for him. 
Also, having  seen quite a few similar  sales to this one, I think Mr M would have been sent a 
welcome letter about the PPI. Barclays sent us an example of the type of letter  that was in 
use at the time and sent out to new PPI customers.
So, on the basis of these things I think Barclays would have properly obtained his consent.
Barclays concedes this could have been  an advised PPI sale.  This means it had a duty to 
make sure the cover was suitable  for Mr Ms particular situation. Overall, I think  it was.
Ref: DRN28939592This is because I think Mr M was eligible for the cover which, at 79p per £100  of the 
outstanding credit card balance, appears  to have  been an affordable charge. Mr M says he 
already had some sick pay with his job. But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean  the 
policy wasnt of use. The PPI could have reduced his credit  card balance  by 10% a month 
for up to a year in the event of a successful claim. I therefore think the policy was suitable.
Barclays also needed to provide clear  enough  information for Mr M to make an informed 
choice. I cant say for sure if it did this and I accept Barclays  could have probably done  more 
to spell out some of the rules and exclusions.  But this doesnt  affect  my decision.  I think  the 
phone call would have  involved  the exchange of information about what the policy did and 
how much  it cost. 
So Im afraid  I cant say the cover was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. So Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay 
any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2893959