K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same  time Mrs A took out 
the card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs A says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
I completed a provisional decision on 3 July 2019,  which is attached and forms part of this
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint.
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2003 alongside  a 
store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same time Mrs A took out the card.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Ref: DRN27990752Mrs A says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the store  card application  form Mrs A saw and signed. In this there is a section for 
PPI where Mrs A signed to agree  to the cover. But Ive not seen anything in this form which  suggests 
Mrs A had to take out the cover or that she wouldnt be able to take out the store card without it. So I 
think Mrs A wouldve known  she couldve left this section  blank if she didnt  want the PPI. Mrs A then 
signed at the bottom of this application form  so I think this reflected what  she wanted at the time.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs A got the information she needed to decide  if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  And 
Mrs A says she was suffering from a medical condition at the time of sale. Having reviewed  the terms 
of the policy it appears Mrs A wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy  for this pre-existing 
condition. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that they felt Mrs A would not have taken  
out the policy  had FICL made  this exclusion clear to her.
Mrs A has provided  evidence to show that she had taken time off work  prior to the date the PPI was 
sold. But the evidence shows one instance of sickness for three days as a result of what appears to 
be an unrelated illness. Mrs A says that her medical condition had weakened her immune  system  and 
so this time off was indirectly related. However,  Im not persuaded by what Mrs A has said and Im 
also not persuaded that this one instance prior to the sale of the PPI is likely to have led her to believe  
she wouldve  needed to take more than 30 days off for going  forward.
So thinking  about what Mrs A told us about  her condition and the evidence  shes provided, I think  its 
unlikely Mrs A would have  thought  this would  be the main reason  she might have needed  to claim on 
the policy.  Especially since she told us she had only three days off before this for a condition which 
Im not persuaded  was related. So I think she wouldve wanted  this policy to cover her for more 
serious, unexpected conditions  and I dont think better information about the exclusions around pre-
existing medical conditions wouldve put her off taking out the PPI.
Ive also seen  that Mrs A had only been with her employer for three months  at the time of sale and 
she says she hadnt been working  prior to this. The policy  terms and conditions state that Mrs A 
wouldve needed to have been employed  for six months in order to make a valid unemployment claim.  
But the policy  also included a 30 day waiting period before a claim  could be made, so Mrs A wouldve 
only been restricted  from making an unemployment claim for the first two months the policy was in 
place. After this she couldve made a claim at any time and she also couldve made an accident and 
sickness claim from the start. So I dont think better information about  this limitation  wouldve  made  a 
difference to her decision  to take out the policy.
And based on everything else Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so I think  it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. And I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would have  
put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN27990753Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs As outstanding monthly  balance  until she 
had returned to work or her outstanding balance had been paid off. Mrs A has told us that she 
wouldve received some sick pay from her. But the PPI wouldve paid out for longer than Mrs A 
wouldve received sick pay and in addition to this. So these  funds couldve been used for other 
expenses. And so l still think the policy wouldve been useful for her and I dont think  better 
information wouldve put her off taking out the cover.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint. I now invite both parties to 
respond with their comments by 3 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2799075