K820x#14complaint
Mr F is complaining that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim someone made on his 
car insurance policy.
background
Mr F was involved in an incident in a supermarket car park where he made  contact with 
another car while parking  his car. He reported  the incident to UKI and admitted liability, but 
he said that he didnt  think hed caused any damage.
The other drivers insurer instructed a solicitor  firm to pursue the claim. This solicitor 
contacted UKI and asked it to settle  the other drivers claim. UKI initially defended the claim 
and wrote to the solicitors  to ask it to prove  that Mr F had caused  the damage. The solicitor  
firm provided a witness statement from an independent witness. And the witness  said that 
the impact was considerable and not a glancing blow.  
UKI then referred the matter to one of its engineers to review  the engineers  report  for the 
other drivers  car. Following this it chose  to settle  the other drivers claim in full. Mr F didnt 
think it was fair that UKI did so as he doesnt think its reviewed  the claim fairly. And he 
raised the following points:
1.He said that UKI initially  asked  the solicitors to prove that hed caused the damage,  but 
then settled the claim without further engineering evidence.
2.He raised discrepancies with the witness statement  about  what  had actually happened. 
And hes unhappy that UKI didnt challenge  this statement.
3.He maintained that his car didnt  have any damage.
4.UKI didnt get his authorisation to settle  the claim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that UKI was entitled to take the 
decision to settle  the claim under the terms of the policy.  And he said that it didnt need to 
get Mr Fs consent before it did so. The investigator was satisfied  that UKI had taken 
everything into account before it came to the conclusion that it did.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators opinion. He reiterated that UKI had initially said that the 
other drivers  solicitors  needed to show that hed caused the damage.  And he maintains that 
it hadnt shown  this. He reiterated why he didnt think  the witnesss  statement was accurate. 
He also got a copy of the engineers report for the other drivers  car and he set out a number  
of concerns about this.
Mr F asked  for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident  
including whether a consumer is liable  for the damage being claimed for  as that is the 
Ref: DRN23493492responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether UKI has carried  out a fair 
investigation, reviewed  all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Mr Fs policy, like all other car insurance  policies, allowed  UKI to take  over and carry out the 
negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the 
best terms it thought  fit. And it had the ultimate  and final say in how to settle the claim. But it 
must exercise this right fairly  and reasonably.
Ive taken all of Mr Fs comments  into account  and I acknowledge  he strongly disagrees that 
he caused the damaged being  claimed for. But, as I said, its not my role to assess whether  
he caused the damage or not. I need to look at whether I think  UKI has investigated the 
claim fairly. 
I can understand why Mr F is unhappy that UKI initially wrote  to the other drivers solicitors to 
defend the claim, but then subsequently  settled  it. But, following the initial  letter UKI sent, the 
solicitors sent a witness statement from an independent witness. Ive read and considered  
Mr Fs comments about why he doesnt  think the statement is an accurate reflection of what  
happened. But I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to rely on this and there wasnt 
anything to say that the witness wasnt independent.  
UKI said that it had to take into account the likely outcome had the claim proceeded to court. 
And it was entitled  to do so. Im satisfied that it has taken everything  Mr F has said into 
account when  deciding whether to settle the claim. I can understand why Mr F is unhappy 
that UKI didnt advise  him that it was going  to settle  the claim before it chose to do so. But, 
as I said above,  it had the final say in whether to settle the claim or not. So, under the terms 
of the contract, it didnt have to consult Mr F before it chose  to settle the claim.
Mr F is unhappy  that UKI didnt arrange  to inspect the other drivers car. But it wasnt  
required to do so as it would be impractical to require an insurer  to inspect every car 
following a claim for damage. It was entitled  to assess  the claim by reviewing  the engineers 
report in its assessment of the claim. And, ultimately, I cant  say that it has handled the claim 
unreasonably in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2349349