K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that British Gas Insurance Limited gave poor service  under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs S both work as contractors   with no paid time off. Mrs S has told us that they 
have two disabled  children. Mr and Mrs S have a bathroom above the kitchen  and another  
bathroom. But one of the children will not use that other bathroom.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
plumbing and drainage  company, its engineers and others for whose actions I hold British 
Gas responsible.
Mr and Mrs S had cover for their central  heating system, electrics,  plumbing and drainage.  
They contacted British Gas for help with a leak through  the kitchen ceiling. They complained  
about the response they received. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought that it was 
unfair that British Gas twice falsely confirmed the cause  of the leak from a shower . She 
recommended that British  Gas should:
1.apologise to Mr and Mrs S for the engineer being asked to leave  their property; and
2.make  a payment  of £200.00 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mr and 
Mrs S.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs S and to British Gas on 4 February  2019.  I summarise my findings:
I didnt think Mr and Mrs S had shown that British Gas caused them the costs of the 
work to the shower. And they hadnt  provided enough detail to support their claim for 
loss of earnings.
The policy terms only required British Gas to fill in the holes and leave the ceiling 
level. And I didnt think Mr and Mrs S had shown  enough evidence  that British Gas 
fell below a reasonable  standard in dong  that.
But I found that British Gas didnt communicate  as well as it should  have.  And I didnt 
doubt that this caused Mr and Mrs S some extra inconvenience and upset at an 
already difficult time for them. 
I was minded to agree  with the investigator that £200.00 is fair and reasonable for 
distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN28761452Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs S or from British  Gas, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct British  
Gas Insurance  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S (jointly)  £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs S disagree with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
One of their sons is unable to use the other bathroom because of his autism.  So they 
had to travel to a family members house, for a year.
British Gas recommended  the second  tiler who used the wrong  grout.
British Gas re-grouted, without first telling Mr and Mrs S, giving them no opportunity 
to call back the second tiler. At this stage British Gas said they had fixed the 
problem which they hadnt.
If the grouting wasnt covered then British Gas shouldnt  have  touched it. Mr and Mrs 
S shouldve had the opportunity to recall the second  tiler. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  ask British Gas to re-grout.  They wanted them to locate the leak. 
British Gas was adamant it was the grouting.
On 21 July 2017 Mr and Mrs S refused to sign the job sheet. The shower tray was 
not moving at all. The engineer said he didnt know what  was causing the leak but if it 
wasnt the grouting it must  be the tray. Yet British on 26th July re-grouted again.
There was never  a leak from the shower door.
On 25 August 2017 the engineer, who had attended a few times,  wanted to get to the 
bottom of the leak. He said he would remove the shower tray, even though  they still 
thought it was the grouting. After removal, if it was found to be the shower tray at 
fault it wasnt covered,  Mr and Mrs S agreed to pay for that.
British Gas still hadnt properly diagnosed the leak.
On 18 October 2017 the bathroom company confirmed it was the grouting and not 
the tray that was leaking. The company was unable  to replace the original shower  
tray. Mr and Mrs S  not the company - asked for the extra work to be done on the 
floor of the shower.
British Gas left the ceiling  not level and in a bad state.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S had had British Gas cover  for several years. The policy terms for the year from 
17 December 2016 were the British  Gas terms dated October  2015.
Ref: DRN28761453Mr and Mrs S have  given a timeline which is more detailed  than the British  Gas file. So 
where Mr and Mrs S have recorded a visit and British Gas has not, I prefer Mr and Mrs Ss 
timeline.
I have no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Ss statement that in December  2016  they called 
British Gas about a leak staining the kitchen ceiling.  And its engineer said he had fixed small 
leaks in the shower  trap and the bath trap.  
British Gas published new policy terms dated February 2017.
Under both versions  of the policy terms, there was cover for leaks from hot or cold water  
pipes and leaks from waste water  pipes. But the policy didnt cover showers, seals or 
grouting. In my view the policy didnt cover leaks from the shower  tray or shower  enclosure.
So I dont  agree with Mr and Mrs S that they were paying British  Gas a monthly fee for 
expertise to diagnose the cause of leaks from showers.
As the stain had got worse, a British Gas engineer visited again on 28 April 2017. He cut 
holes in the kitchen ceiling to get a better view. He said the leak was because of gaps in the 
grouting around the shower.
So Mr and Mrs S arranged  for a local tiler to come  on 5 May 2017  and re-grout the whole of 
the shower area. They say they paid him £100.00  cash. But the leak continued.
On 18 May 2017, a British Gas engineer said the grouting wasnt good enough. He put Mr 
and Mrs S in touch with a second tiler. I dont find that British  Gas had assumed 
responsibility for the work  of that tiler. He re-grouted the shower, at a cost of £80.00. But the 
leak continued.
On 23 May 2017 a British Gas engineer said that the tiler had used the wrong  product.  So on 
29 May 2017 the tiler again re-grouted. But the leak continued. Again I dont find that British  
Gas had assumed  responsibility for the work of that tiler.
From its records, I think British Gas visited on 6 June. Mr and Mrs S say they also spoke to 
British Gas on 12 June  2017 and I9 June 2017.  British Gas said the shower needed re- 
grouting. I think Mr and Mrs S had ample opportunity  in June 2017 to call back  the second 
tiler  but they chose not to do so.
British Gas attended again on about  10 July 2017.  This time British Gas re-grouted the 
shower. I dont think it was obliged to do so. 
The leak continued.  And on 21 July 2017 a different British Gas engineer said there  was 
excessive movement in the shower  tray underfoot.
British Gas says that on 26 July 2017  it re-sealed the shower tray.
On 24 August 2017 a British Gas engineer removed and re-sealed at least  part of the 
shower screen. But the leak continued.
On 25 August 2017 Mrs S rang the engineer. He said he would remove  the shower  tray and 
check underneath  - but British Gas couldnt  replace the shower tray under the policy.
Ref: DRN28761454On 19 September  2017 the engineer went up to the bathroom to start the job. But he said his 
manager had rung to tell him not to complete the job. So he left. Mr S rang to complain.
I accept Mr and Mrs Ss statement  that British Gas did not return their calls. I accept that 
they had to make more  calls than they should  have.
In a final response letter dated  10 October  2017 British Gas agreed  that it was 
unprofessional for its engineer to be asked  to leave Mr and Mrs Ss property. But British Gas 
said it had gone  over and above what was covered.
On 18 October 2017 Mr and Mrs S arranged for a bathroom company to remove  the shower 
tray. The company  said the shower tray was undamaged. But it fitted a new shower tray and 
re-grouted. Ive seen  the companys invoice. It included some work to the floor. The leak was 
fixed.
The bathroom company said water had been leaking through the silicone. I think that means 
the sealant on the horizontal join between the tiles and the tray. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs S had been  inconvenienced by the protracted search for a cure for 
the leak. That included  telephone calls, time off work and having to make  arrangements  for 
their son to shower elsewhere.
I can also see that they hold British Gas responsible. But I would only hold British Gas 
responsible insofar  as  keeping in mind  the policy terms  I thought  it had fallen below a 
reasonable standard of service.
In some respects it did fall below  a reasonable standard. In particular it didnt communicate 
as well as it shouldve. It wasnt clear  and consistent  about  what  it would and wouldnt do 
under the policy.  So it re-grouted when it didnt have to, and it turned up to do a job on 19 
September and then didnt do it.
Whilst the old shower tray was undamaged, I find it likely that it had been moving underfoot 
so that it could not be fully sealed at the edges. 
In the end the bathroom company fixed the leak. From its invoice I find it likely that it did so 
by repairing  the floor under the old shower  tray, fitting a new stone resin  shower  tray, refitting 
the shower screen and re-sealing. 
Mr and Mrs S did not welcome  the expense of this - particularly after the cost of the tilers. 
But  as they fixed the leak  I find that the floor repair and shower tray replacement had 
been necessary  all along.
I dont think Mr and Mrs S have shown that British Gas caused them the costs  of the work to 
the shower. And they havent provided  enough detail to support their claim for loss of 
earnings.
Above all I have to keep  in mind that the leak was from a shower  enclosure  and the policy 
didnt cover it. 
In December 2017 British Gas made good the holes it had made  in the kitchen  ceiling the 
previous April. Mr and Mrs S later paid a decorator  £100.00 to rub down the plastering and 
repaint the celling. 
Ref: DRN28761455But the policy terms only required  British Gas to fill in the holes  and leave the ceiling level.  
And I havent seen  enough photographic or witness evidence to persuade me that British 
Gas fell below a reasonable standard in dong that.
But I have found  that British Gas didnt communicate as well as it should have. And I do not 
doubt that this caused Mr and Mrs S some extra inconvenience and upset at an already 
difficult time for them.  
The investigator recommended  that £200.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
And I dont  think British Gas has disagreed. I agree with the investigator that £200.00 is fair 
and reasonable for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S (jointly)  £200.00  for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN2876145