K820x#14complaint
Ms V complains  that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link Financial) is chasing  her for a 
debt she doesnt  believe she owes. She would like the debt written off.
background
Ms V says that Link Financial is pursuing  her for an initial debt of £6,570.89  which  has now 
risen to £11,581.55. She believes the debt may relate  to a kitchen loan and/or to a mortgage 
she had in 2006. She sent in a letter  from the mortgage company confirming there  was no 
outstanding short fall on the debt.
Ms V also says she has health problems and the debt Link Financial is chasing her for is 
causing her considerable stress.
Link Financial confirmed  the debt didnt relate to Ms Vs mortgage. It said the debt related to 
a kitchen installation.  It said it was aware  Ms Vs property had been re possessed  which  led 
to its Final Charging Order being  lifted on 1 January 2010. This had originally been  obtained  
to secure the account against  the property. It said there was still however an outstanding 
balance that Ms V owed.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-Ms V believed the loan had been settled when her house  was sold and that her ex-
partner dealt with any outstanding debts
-There was no copy of the original loan agreement that I could consider  Ms V wasnt 
able to provide  this and neither was the loan company who we contacted  direct.
-Ms V told us the loan was in joint names  so she was liable for the loan
-Link Financial had comprehensive records on the loan in question.  Its account 
records showed the account was only in Ms Vs name.
-Link Financial was in regular contact with Ms V by letter,  phone  and email  from 2006. 
It sent annual  statements  and corresponded with a debt management company over 
several repayment offers. I found it was unlikely Link Financial  would hold such  
detailed records for Ms V, or it would  have been  asking her to repay the loan over 
such a long period  of time, had it not been  provided with information from the credit 
provider showing Ms V was liable  for the loan.
-Link Financials records show details of post being returned. I found no evidence that 
Ms V updated her address details. I believed Link Financial did send all the 
correspondence as detailed on its records.
-On 27 February 2015 there was an entry on Ms Vs account  noting an intranet 
request to change  the primary account holder, who was bankrupt, with an additional 
person.  Link Financial noted  the additional person  would still be liable for the loan.  I 
couldnt be sure if this information was correctly recorded as it implied the primary 
Ref: DRN24652452account holder  was Ms Vs partner, who had been  made bankrupt, not Ms V. 
However as the account was in Ms Vs name and the majority of the account  entries  
related to her I concluded she was the primary account holder. 
-From  2010 Link Financials records show details of correspondence with Ms Vs 
partner including  details of his insolvency.
-Looking at all the information I had I found it likely the credit agreement  was either 
solely in Ms Vs name  or it was a joint agreement  with her partner. The latter  would 
make Ms V jointly and severally  liable for the outstanding  debt.
-Ms Vs partner was made bankrupt and the information on the bankruptcy  order  
showed a debt to Link Financial for £12,028 for a kitchen loan. Although  this figure 
didnt exactly match the figure of the loan in question it was near enough for me to 
conclude that Ms Vs partner intended to declare  the whole of the outstanding debt to 
Link Financial on his bankruptcy  application.
-When someone is declared bankrupt a business is usually entitled to pursue other  
liable parties  for what is owed. As I concluded the credit agreement  was either in 
Ms Vs name or in joint names  with her partner this did make Ms V liable for the 
outstanding debt. And that this debt couldnt be covered by her partners bankruptcy.
-Ms V was liable for the outstanding  debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
Link Financial hasnt  come back with any comments on my provisional decision for me to 
consider .However  Ms V has made various  points which I have considered very carefully.
Firstly Ms V says the building society advised her that after repossession of the property the 
house would  be sold and all debts written off. 
I have gone back  and looked at the letter Ms V provided from her building society   that 
refers to there no longer being  any sums payable with regard to her mortgage  or a personal 
loan. The letter doesnt state what the personal  loan covers so I do not know  what  that 
relates to.
But as the letter makes no reference  to any outstanding credit  agreement and /or loan 
relating to a kitchen installation I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the loan now in 
question was resolved when  the building society repossessed the house.
I have also gone  back to the information  Link Financial provided us with. It confirmed it had a 
charge on the property  in relation to a loan for a kitchen installation. And that it was aware 
the property had been re possessed so as a result its charge on the property was lifted on 
1 January 2010 but there still remained an outstanding balance.
Ms Vs second point  is that she feels as he has had no contact from Link Financial from 
when she left the property in 2008 the balance  it is seeking from her is statute barred. 
Ref: DRN24652453I dont agree with this. Link Financial has provided us with comprehensive  details of Ms Vs 
account. I have  looked  back over this information and its clear that Link Financial were  in 
regular contact from 2006 to now. The list of the correspondence is too numerous to note 
here but for example it shows an offer , I assume of repayment terms, accepted  in March 
2009, a repayment offer of £62.92 per month in 2010 and another repayment  offer in 2011 
along with numerous other correspondence and/or contact with Ms V..
I accept Ms V didnt  get all of the correspondence Link Financial  sent to her as its records  
show some  correspondence as returned. I cant see any evidence  that Ms V updated Link 
Financial with any change  of address details so I think that would explain why she didnt get 
some correspondence.  But I dont think Link Financial can be held responsible  for that. And I 
think Link Financial was proactive in tracing  Ms V via credit reference agencies.   
I accept Ms Vs third point that there is no record of the original credit  agreement.  I noted  
that was frustrating in my provisional decision.  But clearly  there  was an agreement   Ms V 
has told us there was, its mentioned in Ms Vs partners bankruptcy application and Link 
Financial has provided  us with detailed account information. It would have helped to have 
had the agreement but I cant  reasonably tell Link Financial to write off the outstanding debt 
just because no one can provide details  of the original credit agreement. 
Finally Ms V says this debt has never shown on her credit agreement. I havent seen a copy  
of Ms Vs credit agreement to confirm this. I cant explain  why the debt isnt showing on her 
credit file  I would have  expected it to do so. However I feel I have sufficient information to 
show there was an agreement and there is still an outstanding debt for which  Ms V is liable.
Having carefully considered all of Ms Vs points I see no reason to change the view from my 
provisional decision which is that Link Financial is entitled to pursue Ms V for the debt in 
question.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2465245