K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy. It was taken out in 2006  in a meeting at the 
same time as Mr and Mrs B applied for a mortgage.  It provided  Mr and Mrs B with protection  
against accident, sickness and unemployment.  They  paid a monthly  amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say the PPI was presented as something they needed, along with other 
insurances. I cant know what was said in the mortgage application meeting so Ive looked at 
the paperwork available from the sale. The mortgage offer document Mr and Mrs B signed 
said You are not required to take out any insurance through HSBC , it said only buildings  
insurance was a condition of the mortgage and listed PPI under the heading Optional 
Insurance with the cost set out separately.   Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Bs 
comments, but on balance I think HSBC made it clear the PPI was optional and they chose 
to take it out. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check it was right for them.  I know 
they feel strongly they didnt need it but I think it seems to have been suitable based on what  
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. They werent entitled  to any sick pay and the 
PPI wouldve  paid their monthly mortgage  costs for up to 12 months  for each successful 
accident and sickness claim  giving them long term protection. It also gave up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. 
Mr and Mrs B said members of their family had savings and wouldve helped them, but thats 
not suitable alternative protection   its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can 
change. For the same  reasons, having each others  salary to rely on doesnt mean they 
didnt need PPI. Theyve also told us they had cars and motorbikes they could have sold but 
the PPI would have meant they didnt  need  to take such extreme measures  at an already 
difficult time. 
Overall I think  the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs B if they were  sick or lost their 
job(s).
Its possible HSBC didnt  give Mr and Mrs B all the information it shouldve  before they made  
their decision. I dont know it made clear the cost of the policy but it was competitively priced 
Ref: DRN27678922and apparently affordable. I dont know that HSBC pointed out the main  things the policy 
didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs B dont  appear  to have  been affected by any of those things. So 
I dont think better information  about  the policy wouldve changed their mind about  buying it.
Overall, I dont  think theyve lost out because of any of the problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2767892