K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about the suitability of the advice TennetConnect Limited (TC) gave to 
switch her pension  and open  an investment account. She also complains about a delay in 
receiving an income payment from her pension which  she says led to a financial loss.
background
Mrs B and her husband, Mr B, both have complaints with our service about  many of the 
same concerns. However,  this decision will focus on Mrs Bs complaint against  TC. 
Mr and Mrs B met TC at a retirement  planning  course in 2017. As both Mr and Mrs B were  
due to retire that year,  they asked TC to provide  them  with financial advice about their 
retirement plans. Mr and Mrs B both had occupational pension schemes (OPS) as well as 
additional voluntary contribution (AVC) pension plans. They  also had savings and 
investment accounts.
In March 2017 TC completed a fact find with Mr and Mrs B. In summary  the fact find 
recorded:
Mr B was due to retire  in April 2017,  followed by Mrs B in August 2017.
Their primary  goal in retirement  was to secure a combined income of £5,000 to 
£6,000 per month.
Mr Bs OPS  was estimated to provide an annual pension of £28,232.79 and a tax-
free lump sum of £84,696.87.
Mrs Bs OPS  was estimated to provide an annual pension of £30,350 and a tax-free 
lump sum of £91,050.
Mr B had an AVC plan with a value of £129,312.
Mrs B had an AVC plan with a value of £122,225.
Mr B had cash deposits of around £51,000, an investment  account  valued at around  
£42,000 and £6,000  held jointly with Mrs B.
Mrs B had cash deposits of around £18,000.
Mr and Mrs B had a Low/Medium attitude to investment risk.
TC also sent Mr and Mrs B a discussion  letter in March 2017 which outlined what they 
thought Mr and Mrs Bs cash flow could  look like in retirement.  In summary, the letter  said 
Mr and Mrs Bs OPSs  would achieve a joint monthly  income of £4,280.  So, they needed 
around £700-£800  a month to reach their desired income of £5,000 per month. Mr and Mrs B 
were due to receive  their state  pension in 5 to 6 years  which  was likely  to exceed their 
income target. But TC said the tax-free cash from the OPSs  comfortably  exceeded the 
£50,000-£60,000 shortfall before the state pension could be paid, so Mr and Mrs B didnt 
need to draw on their AVCs.
In May 2017  TC sent Mr and Mrs B a suitability report. The report focused on Mr Bs existing 
savings and investments  and how he could  invest the tax-free cash from his OPS in the 
short, medium and long term to meet  Mr and Mrs Bs income objectives.  
In July 2017 TC provided Mrs B with a suitability report which focused on their 
recommendations for investing her tax-free  lump sum from her OPS.  In summary TC 
recommended Mrs B invest £75,000  of her cash of which £20,000 would  be invested into an 
ISA and £55,000 into an investment account.  TC further recommended that the funds in the 
investment account  be invested into their actively managed fund. Following their 
Ref: DRN20847622recommendations Mrs B decided to reduce the investment  into the actively managed fund to 
£40,000. 
In December 2017 TC provided Mrs B with another suitability report which  focused on her 
AVC plan. In summary, TC reiterated that Mrs B could achieve  her income objective through 
her cash  deposits, and so the AVC could be invested in the medium to long term. The report 
said Mrs B also had an objective of releasing £20,000 from her AVC to replenish her savings  
after making a few purchases. 
TC recommended  Mrs B switch her pension from the AVC plan to a personal pension  and 
invest in the same actively managed fund as her investment account. TC also recommended  
that Mrs B release £20,000  from the personal  pension in the form of a partial  uncrystallised  
funds pension lump  sum (UFPLS). Mrs B would  then receive  a tax free lump sum of £5,000 
and the balance of £15,000 would be paid as taxable income.  
Mrs B went  ahead with TCs recommendation and switched her AVC to a personal pension.  
She received £5,000 tax free cash in January  2018.  
Mr and Mrs B say they met with TCs adviser  in March and April 2018.  Mr B had also 
planned to release £20,000 through a partial  UFPLS. But Mr and Mrs B hadnt received the 
balance of their funds after the tax-free cash.  So, they say they asked TCs adviser for the 
remaining funds. 
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs B wrote  to TCs adviser who acknowledge that they hadnt 
received remaining balance of the partial  UFPLS. He said there had been  an issue with the 
pension providers platform which was now rectified and asked for Mr and Mrs B to return  
acceptance slips.  Mr and Mrs B say they wrote directly to the pension  provider to request the 
withdrawal in October 2018.
In November 2018 Mrs B received payment of the remainder of the UFPLS. However, by 
that time the value of the funds had reduced  from £15,000 to £14,712.
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs B complained to TC. They  said they were unhappy with the 
excessive delay in receiving the remainder  or their partial UFPLS which they said led to a 
reduction in its value. They also had several other  concerns. The main  concerns that 
affected Mrs B were that she was concerned a large  proportion of her funds had been 
invested in a fund that didnt match her attitude  to investment risk. The annual  report shed 
received in October 2018 didnt show the charges shed  paid.  And generally, she felt the 
investment strategy  TC had recommended didnt meet her income objectives. 
In response TC said Mr and Mrs B ought  to have  been aware they needed to request the 
remainder of their partial UFPLS. And when they did request it in October 2018, it was paid 
to them.  The reduction in value was down  to market fluctuations, so TC didnt think  it was 
their fault the value  had reduced. TC went on to say Mr and Mrs Bs funds were invested in 
their active  managed fund BBT 5. TC said Mr and Mrs B had completed  a risk assessment 
in their fact find which showed  they had an attitude to investment risk score of 5  
Low/Medium. They say the 5 denoted  in the funds name  represents  the risk profile of the 
fund as being Low/Medium and so, it matched Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to investment risk.  
TC said its advice was that Mr and Mrs B should have had enough  cash deposits to make up 
the income shortfall they had for the next few years. And so, their other  pensions  and 
investments were invested  for the medium to long term.  Finally,  TC said the annual report  
Ref: DRN20847623didnt include the annual charges in the relevant section because  the plan had been in place 
for less than 12 months. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with TCs responses. They  said theyd asked TCs adviser  in 
March and April 2018 for the remaining funds. They also said TCs strategy had focused on 
providing an income of £5,000 a month and not the higher figure of £6,000 despite it being 
clear they wished to enjoy  their retirement  whilst they were young  enough to do so. They  
also pointed out several concerns with the accuracy  of TCs reports. 
TC didnt accept Mr and Mrs Bs further  points. And so, Mr and Mrs B brought  their complaint 
to us.
I sent Mrs B and TC my provisional  decision on 28 May 2021. In it I said that TC had 
delayed Mrs Bs request  to withdraw  funds and so needed to put things right. However, I 
thought TCs reports and advice were suitable.  Ive copied my provisional findings below.   
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said:
Throughout their complaint to TC, Mr and Mrs B had concerns with several different issues. 
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, I want to assure Mr and Mrs B 
that Ive given careful consideration  to all of the submissions made before arriving  at my 
decision. 
TCs Reports
Mr and Mrs B are concerned  that TCs reports contained several errors and they were 
concerned that the annual charges werent  included  in their annual  report. I can see that the 
reports did contain typographical  errors as well as the inaccuracies Mr and Mrs B pointed 
out. However, its clear  Mr and Mrs B knew that these were  errors and while  I appreciate it 
was concerning for them, I dont think the errors led to any material  loss or inconvenience.  
As for the annual charges, TC say they werent included  as the plan had been open for less 
than 12 months. The charges  on the various  investments and pensions were shown quite 
clearly in the suitability  reports. But I agree with Mr and Mrs B that it would have been 
clearer for them if the fees had been recorded on the annual  report. That being said,  its a 
business decision made by TC as to how they display their annual  reports and I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs B were  incorrectly charged. So, I wont ask TC to do 
anything more.
Suitability of advice
TC provided several suitability reports to Mr and Mrs B over the course of 2017. But their 
general strategy for providing  an income  for Mr and Mrs B in retirement was to top up their 
OPS benefits using cash deposits  Mr and Mrs B had from their existing savings and the tax-
free cash  from the OPSs.
TCs suitability reports record that Mr and Mrs B were due to receive a combined  total of 
about £176,000 in tax-free cash from their OPSs.  They say Mr and Mrs B were looking for 
Ref: DRN20847624modest capital growth ahead of cash deposit rates and inflation.  And I think its reasonable 
for TC to look at ways to protect  Mr and Mrs Bs tax-free cash from the effects of inflation. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were looking for an investment strategy  that meant they were  able to 
enjoy their hard-earned money whilst they were  young and well enough to do so. And they 
gave an objective  of receiving £5,000 to £6,000 a month in income. I appreciate  
Mr and Mrs Bs concerns that TCs reports focused  on the lower end of their desired income 
range. But its not unusual  to see a financial plan that looks to achieve at least the minimum 
income needed in retirement and I dont think that makes the advice unsuitable.
TC laid out a plan for the short, medium and long term in their report to Mr and Mrs B in 
May 2017. They recommended Mr B invest £85,000  and his existing investments into TCs 
actively managed  fund for the long term. They then proposed Mr B invest £20,000 into a 
stocks and shares ISA and £15,000 into a Cofunds absolute  return  fund for the medium  
term. TC said that would leave circa £50,000 in the short  term to supplement  their income  for 
five years until their state pension was payable.
TCs May 2017 report isnt clear if its investment strategy was taking into account both 
Mr and Mrs Bs tax-free lump sums. The report recommended Mr B invest  £100,000 in new 
investments, but he was only due to receive about  £84,000 in tax free cash  from his OPS.  
The fact find recorded  that Mr B had about  £50,000 in cash based deposits.  So, I think  its 
unlikely Mr B alone would have in excess of £50,000 in cash deposits for the short  term after 
his new investments. However,  Mrs B was advised in the July 2017 report  to invest  £75,000 
(later reduced to £65,000) of her tax-free cash into medium and long term investments. This 
would have left about £26,000 of her tax-free  cash for the short term. 
Having read TCs suitability reports, I dont think it was particularly clear to Mr and Mrs B 
how much  money they would have left in cash deposits for the short  term, and how that 
would provide them with the income  they desired. However, I think its likely  that 
Mr and Mrs B would still have had circa £50,000 in cash deposits after making  TCs 
recommended investments. And, like TC said, that money could have been used to 
supplement their income to at least their minimum requirement. 
Mr and Mrs B also still had investments  for the medium to longer term which  TC say 
protected them from inflation  over remaining as cash  deposits. And both had AVCs  that 
didnt need to be drawn on and could remain invested in a tax efficient way. Mr and Mrs B 
were concerned that the BBT 5 fund didnt  match  their attitude to risk. But I havent seen any 
evidence that TC incorrectly assessed Mr and Mrs B attitude to risk, or that the fund falls 
outside of that risk profile. So, while I think TC could  have been clearer in their reports,  I 
think their advice and investment strategy  was suitable.
Withdrawal of funds
Mr and Mrs B say they asked for the remaining  UFPLS funds at their meetings with TCs 
adviser in March and April 2018. But TC say they have no evidence of meetings being  held 
at the time and the only request they had from Mr and Mrs B was much later in the year.   
Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting,  as it is in this case,  I base my decision on what  
I think is most likely  to have happened. 
Ref: DRN20847625Mr and Mrs B emailed  TCs adviser  on 4 September 2018. In the email  they refer to the fact 
that theyd discussed drawing £20,000  from their pensions in their last meeting. And they 
asked for an update as they thought they should have received the payment by then.
Following on from this email TCs adviser  sent an internal email to a colleague that day 
which said ;
this request for a withdrawal was made  around the time of the AVIVA 
Platform Upgrade and we delayed the request  due to their platform difficulties.
I have dug out the WER and previous report to create the withdrawal back on the 11th 
March 2018
TC argue that the we referred to by the adviser  could be read as the adviser  saying that he, 
and Mr and Mrs B decided to delay the request. However, Mr and Mrs B say that isnt the 
case. 
As the adviser  no longer  works for TC, they havent  provided an account from him. So, Ive 
given more weight  to Mr and Mrs Bs account as they were  present in the meetings. TCs 
reports recorded that the £20,000 was to be used  to replenish Mr and Mrs Bs savings.
While there  didnt appear to be a pressing  need  for it, its clear Mr and Mrs B wanted  £20,000  
each, not £5,000 with the remainder due some time in the future. Mr and Mrs B received the 
tax-free lump sum element of this withdrawal in early 2018. And I havent seen any evidence  
it was Mr or Mrs Bs wish to delay receiving the remainder of their funds.  So, I think its more  
likely the adviser was talking about his firm when he wrote we delayed the request.
Further evidence of this is found in the Withdrawals/Encashment Record (WER)  which was 
referred to in the advisers email.  TC have provided a WER  that shows  a date of request as 
30 March 2018  and is signed  and dated  by the adviser on 10 April 2018.
Under the heading amount to be withdrawn, the WER states  £15,000, as per report. It 
records that the reasons for the withdrawal were  outlined  in the suitability report  dated 13 
November 2017.  And under date funds  required  by the WER records  4 weeks.
Had Mr and Mrs B not requested the withdrawal again around March  2018, I see no reason 
why the WER would  have  been filled out at that time. 
TC say they havent  seen any evidence that meetings took place  between  Mr and Mrs B and 
their adviser in March  and April 2018. Or that the withdrawals were  discussed. I asked 
Mr and Mrs B if they had any evidence of their meetings with TCs adviser. They  produced 
hand written notes which they say were made at the time of the meetings. I can see the 
notes are dated 29 March  2018  and 18 April 2018.  Mr B has also provided a print out of his 
funds values which was dated 29 March 2018.
Whilst TC dont  have evidence that the meetings took place in March and April 2018, 
Mr and Mrs Bs account, their notes from the time and the WER completed by TCs adviser  
suggest to me that its more likely than not that meetings  did take place as Mr and Mrs B 
say.
The notes provided  by Mr and Mrs B suggest  that the remaining £15,000 withdrawals were 
discussed during  the meeting on 29 March 2018. Mrs Bs notes say forms to fill in. [TCs  
adviser] to bring  forms. [TCs adviser]  to do. So, I find it no surprise that the date of request 
on the WER  was the following  day and it was signed  by TCs adviser the week  before their 
meeting on 18 April 2018. 
Ref: DRN20847626Mr and Mrs B had only recently retired and this appears to be their first withdrawals of funds 
from their pensions. So, whilst TC argue  that Mr and Mrs B should  have chased the funds  
earlier than September  2018. I dont think its fair to assume that Mr and Mrs B knew how 
long the withdrawal would take so therefore knew when it was reasonable to chase TC to 
find out what was going on having already  chased  him in March and April 2018. 
In order to put Mr and Mrs B in the position  they would have been in had TC not delayed  the 
withdrawal requests, Ive thought about when its likely the withdrawal would have been 
made but for this error.
The WER completed by TCs adviser  recorded 4 weeks as being the date the funds were 
required by, and the form asks the adviser to take into account  the providers timescales. The 
date of the request was recorded  as 30 March 2018, so I think that the latest  the funds would 
have been withdrawn was 27 April 2018.  
I think its fair to use this date for any redress calculation as I havent seen sufficient 
evidence that Mr and Mrs B were pushing  for the withdrawal to be made in the previous tax 
year. And, even  if TC had processed their request on 30 March,  I think its unlikely the units 
would have been sold and funds withdrawn  before  the end of the tax year.
Therefore, I think TC should calculate the difference between  the value of the crystallised 
part of Mrs Bs funds as of 27 April 2018  and its value when it was finally paid to Mrs B in 
November 2018.  The difference should  be paid to Mrs B, with the correct amount  of tax 
deducted. 8% simple interest should  then be added  to this amount from 27 April 2018 until 
the date of settlement.   
TC have denied that Mrs B met with her adviser in March and April 2018, despite  her 
assurances and she waited many months  for her remaining funds that TC had delayed.  This 
led to the inconvenience of having  to repeatedly chase the remaining payment. Therefore, 
Im also minded to say TC should pay Mrs B £100 for the inconvenience and upset theyve 
caused.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Mrs B accepted my provisional decision and TC confirmed they had no further submissions 
to make.  That means I have no reason to depart from the findings Ive already  reached in 
this case. So, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision, I partially  uphold  Mrs Bs complaint.
I direct  TenetConnect Limited to;
  
Calculate the difference between the value of the crystallised part of Mrs Bs funds as 
of 27 April 2018 and its value when it was finally paid to Mrs B in November 2018. 
The difference should be paid to Mrs B, with the correct amount of tax deducted.
Ref: DRN20847627Pay Mrs B 8% Simple interest on this amount from 27 April 2018 until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mrs B £100 for the inconvenience and upset theyve caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2021.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2084762