K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the way HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with fraud on her account 
and the customer  service issues that followed.
what happened
In October  2018, HSBCs fraud systems  found  out that Miss Ss card had been  
compromised, and they tried to contact her about this.
There were a number of issues that followed. Both sides are well-versed  in what happened 
so I wont list them  all. But for example, Miss S is unhappy that she wasnt initially  sent a 
replacement card and wasnt told she had to sign for it, shes unhappy  about  the responses  
to her complaint and her complaint being  closed early,  and she says she spent a lot of time 
on the phone to HSBC and kept having  to chase them.
HSBC accepted they got things wrong. They apologised  a number of times and gave Miss S 
£780 compensation in total.
Miss S felt she should  get at least  £1,000  for the trouble  and upset shed been caused.  She 
also wanted a better  apology  and better  explanations for why things  had gone  wrong.
Our investigator looked into things independently. He agreed that HSBC had made 
mistakes, but he felt theyd already resolved things fairly. He explained  it wasnt  always 
possible to get a good explanation for why things went wrong.
Miss S disagreed with our investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After careful consideration, Ive come  to the same  conclusions  as our investigator, for much 
the same  reasons.
I can see that Miss S feels strongly about what happened. I think all parties have  accepted 
that HSBC got things  wrong here, such as mis-reading Miss Ss transactions, not always 
calling when  they said they would,  and so on. Its already distressing being the target of 
fraud and having  to complain, and so having customer service  issues on top will naturally 
make things worse.
I understand why Miss S would like an apology from HSBC.  The problem is that if I were to 
tell HSBC to apologise, their apology would seem forced, and not genuine  theyd only be 
saying sorry because I told them to. Further,  I can see HSBC  have already apologised a 
number of times, and that clearly hasnt repaired the relationship between the bank and 
Miss S. So I dont think another apology is likely to help here.
Ref: DRN24061892I also understand why Miss S would like more detailed explanations about why things went  
wrong. But as our investigator said, there  isnt always a satisfying explanation  sometimes 
misunderstandings happen or people  just make mistakes. And again, I can see that HSBC 
have already explained why certain things happened, and that hasnt repaired the 
relationship. The focus of my role, and this decision, is on resolving the complaint, rather 
than explaining HSBCs  actions. So the key thing I need  to decide is: have HSBC done  
enough to resolve  this complaint in the circumstances?
Instead of telling businesses to apologise to customers or to give them more detailed 
explanations, we often tell them to pay compensation, to recognise that the business  got 
something wrong and the impact it had. 
It is clear that this matter  has caused  Miss S trouble and upset.  When  it comes to the 
amount of compensation Id award,  its worth bearing in mind  that were  here to resolve 
complaints, and not to issue large  fines or punish  businesses.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation  to award,  and we need to be 
consistent. I think HSBC  should  have handled things better, and that this had an unfair 
impact on Miss S. But I agree with our investigator  that the £780 theyve paid her is a fair 
total amount of compensation to put things right.
Miss S says the compensation shes been paid is only for certain issues and not others. But 
thats not how we look at it  we looks at things as a whole. And I do need to explain that, 
even taking all of the issues involved together, HSBC have already paid Miss S more  
compensation than what  I would have  awarded.  So I dont think  it would be fair for me to tell 
HSBC to pay any more  compensation for these  issues.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything more  here.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2406189