K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited  
(The NFU) mis-sold  a horse  and rider insurance  policy to her, by misleading  her about the 
policy cover  at renewal.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I explained I intended  to uphold the complaint in part, and I include an extract  
from my provisional decision here:
Miss C first took out the horse and rider policy with The NFU in 2011. Since then she has 
renewed the policy each year. In 2015  her horse fell ill with colic.  NFU paid the claim for 
vets fees up to the policy limit. It told her it wouldnt pay any further vets fees for colic.
At the May 2017  renewal  Miss C was concerned that the policy premium had increased 
sharply, even though  she was no longer covered  for vets fees for colic.  She contacted The 
NFU to see if it could do anything to reduce the cost. The NFUs  local agent was able to 
reduce the premium, by removing the cover for tack and by reducing  the loss of animal  
cover sum insured from £4,200 to £3,000. Miss C renewed the policy at the reduced 
premium. 
Sadly in November 2017 Miss Cs horse  became seriously ill with colic and had to be put to 
sleep. Miss C contacted  The NFU straight  away, to make a claim for the horses loss. But 
The NFU said there  was no cover because  her horse had died of colic.  Miss C immediately  
complained, saying The NFUs agent had told her shed be covered for her horses death for 
any reason. 
In March 2017 The NFU sent Miss C its final response on the complaint. It said that under its 
policy it would pay a claim for the horse  being put to sleep for colic but only if that happened  
within 104 weeks of the first appearance of the illness  which  meant it would pay a claim 
only until January  2017.  The NFU said it hadnt  recorded any calls between  its local agent  
and Miss C, but the agent couldnt  recall discussing loss of animal  cover. It accepted  it had 
taken too long to give Miss C its answer about the claim, and sent her a cheque  for £100 for 
distress and inconvenience. Miss C didnt  accept this and came  to us.
Our investigator found, on balance, The NFU had misled Miss C. But he didnt think Miss C 
would have done anything differently even if The NFUs agent had explained about the loss 
of animal restriction for colic. Miss C said she would have taken different steps   such as 
shopping around for cover without loss of animal  cover. As an agreement couldnt  be 
reached the complaints  been referred to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I intend  to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  how I think it should  be fairly resolved.
Miss C doesnt dispute that her claim for loss of animal wasnt  covered under the policys 
terms. But for the avoidance of doubt I think The NFU was entitled to reject the claim, for the 
reasons its given.
Ref: DRN21080042Having carefully considered all the evidence, I think its more likely  than not, on balance, that 
The NFUs agent  did mislead Miss C when she renewed her policy  in 2017. 
The NFU says that the agents internal note of the call doesnt mention that loss of animal 
was discussed.  Also, it says the agent  doesnt recall  discussing the loss of animal cover  
with Miss C. But the email  the agent sent to Miss C with the updated renewal  papers  refers 
both to a discussion  and the reduction  of sum insured to £3,000. The internal note shows  the 
renewal was updated to reduce the horses value to £3,000. So clearly  they did discuss loss 
of animal cover.
Also, Miss C has been clear and consistent  that The NFU agent told her that the cover  for 
loss of animal was for any reason. She said shed specifically asked the agent about  this. 
She told The NFU about what  shed  been  told when it first turned down her claim after her 
horses death. I think its more likely than not that Miss C was misled. 
Even in a non-advised sale the NFU is required to give Miss C clear,  fair and not misleading  
information about the policy so she can make an informed choice about whether to proceed 
with it. Ive found it did mislead her. Its said that it sent information to Miss C so that she 
could check the policy schedule and wording, and this isnt in dispute. But I wouldnt expect 
Miss C to check  the policy to confirm  that the information The NFUs agent had told her was 
correct. It was important for The NFU to give her the correct information  at the time the agent 
discussed the renewal with her, and I dont think it did that. 
Miss C thought The NFU should either  pay the loss of animal  claim or refund  the premium  
shed paid it since May 2017 until the horses  death in November 2017.  Unfortunately shed 
never have  been  covered for the loss of her horse, and so I dont think I can fairly say The 
NFU must pay her claim. The NFU had covered the risk of insuring the horse so I dont think 
a refund of premium  is fair here. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss C would  have done if shed known that shed not be 
covered for loss of animal for colic. I appreciate its difficult to put back the clock  and 
answer that question  without the benefit  of hindsight.  
Having considered all that Miss C has told us, I think its likely shed have reduced the loss 
of animal cover as much as possible. But its not possible for her to reduce it to nil under 
The NFU policy. 
I think its unlikely, on balance, that Miss C would have gone to another  insurer. I accept its 
possible but I dont  think its probable  shed  have done that. Shed been happy with the way 
The NFU had dealt  with her colic claim in 2015.  And its very difficult to say shed have been 
able to get the same cover elsewhere  for a lower premium. Its clear she wanted to continue  
to insure her horse,  who did still have a value even  if it was lower following the 2015 colic 
(and because of other illnesses the horse had suffered). 
Having carefully thought  about all the evidence, it seems to me that Miss C essentially 
suffered a loss of expectation. Shed thought shed be paid £3,000 when  her horse died.  It 
was a horrible  shock for her  at an already very difficult  time  to find that, in fact, she 
wasnt to be paid anything  under  the insurance policy. I think  the impact  of this on her went  
beyond mere disappointment. It was very distressing for her, in addition to the distress  shed 
suffered in losing  her 11-year old horse.  And then she had to wait too long to get a final 
answer on her claim, as The NFU has acknowledged.
Ref: DRN21080043I think a moderate  level of compensation is appropriate and having considered all the 
circumstances I think £150  is both fair and reasonable.  To be clear  this is in addition  to the 
cheque The NFU has sent Miss C for £100.  I dont  know  if Miss C can still bank that cheque,  
but if not The NFU must arrange  to replace it.
So in summary I said I intended  to require  NFU to pay Miss C £150 compensation, for 
distress and inconvenience, in addition to the £100  it had already paid her by cheque.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss C responded  to say that she was pleased with my provisional decision and accepted it. 
She had no further  comments  to add. 
The NFU responded  to say it didnt agree with my provisional decision.  It said:
It accepted a discussion about  loss of use of the animal took place when the 
premium was reviewed. But it though it extremely unlikely  that its agent, the seller, 
told Miss C that she was covered for any reason.  The agent was an experienced 
insurance professional who would have  known that no policy provides cover for any 
reasons, and will be limited to some extent.  
It was the consumers word against  the agents  without any persuasive evidence.  
The NFU takes  a balanced  approach based on evidence and probability. The fact the 
agent cant recall a conversation shouldnt be evidence of them  misleading  a 
consumer. Its also unreasonable for me to absolve a consumer of the responsibility  
to read policy  documentation, which provides the only factual evidence of what  
occurred at point  of sale. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  The NFUs comments about my findings, but I remain of the view 
that this complaint should be upheld. 
Miss Cs recollection of her conversation is evidence, and Ive explained why I consider it to 
be persuasive. Miss C has been  clear  and consistent throughout about what  she was told. 
I accept that the fact the agent  doesnt recall the conversation is not, of itself, evidence that 
she misled Miss C. But the agents own note of the discussions were clearly not complete, 
given the discussion  around loss of use wasnt mentioned in the note. And the email  The 
NFUs agent sent to Miss C does refer to the discussion. I dont  accept the policy document, 
with the terms and conditions, that The NFU sent to Miss C is the only factual evidence here.
I take The NFUs point that there  are usually restrictions to cover,  and that the experienced 
agent would  have known this. But Miss C wasnt the expert and it was for the agent to 
explain the restrictions to her so she could make  an informed  choice.  For example, cover  for 
loss of animal was restricted  to a limited time for colic and this information was clearly a 
significant restriction given Miss Cs horse had already suffered an episode of colic. 
Ref: DRN21080044Miss Cs clear understanding  of the discussions with The NFUs agent was that the loss of 
animal cover wasnt restricted.  On balance, I dont accept The NFU did enough to explain 
the policy restriction so she could decide whether or not to take the cover.  The fact that The 
NFU then sent Miss C a copy of the policy  is not enough. Its agent  should  have correctly 
explained the restrictions at the point of renewal, during discussions around the specific aim 
of reducing the premium.  
I decide cases on their individual facts. In the specific circumstances of this complaint 
I consider The NFU misled Miss C about the policy terms, which meant  she suffered a loss 
of expectation  at the point  she claimed  for the distressing  loss of her horse. I think The NFU 
should compensate  Miss C for this and I assess £150 to be a fair and reasonable amount.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I order The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited to pay Miss C £150  compensation,  for distress and 
inconvenience, in addition to the £100  it has already paid her. 
The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must pay the total additional 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss C accepts my final decision.  
If it pays later than this it must also pay interest*  on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision  until the date of payment at 8% per year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If The National Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Miss C a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2108004