K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has a motor insurance  policy with Aviva Insurance Limited. She complains that she 
got very poor service from it after her car was damaged in a non-fault accident.
 
background
Mrs Ps husband, Mr S, is a named  driver on the policy.  He was driving the car on Saturday,
1 December 2018 and had stopped at traffic lights when another  car collided with it. There  
was damage to the rear bumper and to the boot, which  then wouldnt lock. And the engine  
wouldnt restart. 
Mr S called Aviva and Mrs P gave it permission to deal with him rather than with her about  
the claim.  Mrs P said she wanted a replacement car to be delivered to their home address  
within 45 minutes. The advisor said hed get the damaged  car taken to safe storage by one 
of Avivas agents. And as it looked  like a non-fault  claim, he transferred the call to a car hire 
firm. The advisor said any car hire costs would  be paid for by the other drivers insurer.  
Mr S later called Aviva. In error, the advisor  said Mrs P would have to give her consent for 
Aviva to speak with him. Mrs P thought that was poor service.  And she said theyd been  
offered a hire car that wasnt suitable  for them. Later  that afternoon,  Mr S told Aviva that its 
agent still hadnt collected the damaged car. Avivas  agent told Aviva  that Mrs P had said 
she and Mr S werent available for part of the collection time-slot  it had offered.  Aviva asked 
the agent to re-arrange the collection.  The car was collected that evening. 
Mr S asked when the damage to the car would  be fixed. The advisor  said Aviva would have 
to look at images of the damage. Mrs P then took over the call. She said she was making a 
formal complaint about the car hire, Avivas error in asking twice for consent  to speak to 
Mr S, its failure to reply  to her emails  that day and its failure to add the images shed sent in 
earlier to her file. Mrs P also complained about the delayed collection of the damaged car.   
Avivas agent instructed  a recovery firm (firm  A) to collect the car from storage and deliver 
it to the garage  for repair. Firm A wasnt able to do that until Tuesday, 4 December 2018.  
Mr S complained that day that they still didnt have a courtesy car. Aviva said the garage had 
a car available and had left a message for Mrs P that afternoon to call it back. Mr S said it 
hadnt done so. The garage  was closed by that point. The next day the garage  told Aviva  
that Mrs P insisted on having the courtesy  car by 11am, but it wasnt able to agree to that. It 
said she wasnt co-operative. The car was delivered  to Mrs P that evening.
Mrs P complained that shed had to wait all day for the car and had taken unpaid  leave to do 
so. She said shed missed  a medical appointment for her son at 5.30pm. She also said 
Avivas very poor service had affected  her health.    
One of our investigators  considered the major issue Mrs P had complained about, which was 
the provision of the courtesy car. He pointed out that Mrs Ps policy  said a courtesy car was 
subject to availability  and would be provided if the car was repairable  (and was being 
repaired) by one of Avivas approved repairers. He noted that the policy said Aviva  would 
aim to provide  a car within one working  day, but it also said it could take longer.  
The investigator noted that Aviva  tried to get a car in place for Mrs P on the day of the 
accident. As it was a weekend day, the first working  day was Monday,  3 December 2018. He 
noted that the garage was unable  to contact Mrs P the day after that and had said there  was 
a delay on 5 December 2018  as Mrs P wasnt happy  to provide her driving licence details. 
Ref: DRN29160942The investigator didnt  agree with Mrs P that Aviva was legally required to ensure she had a 
courtesy car by 12 noon on 5 December 2018, as she thought. In his view,  Mrs P may have 
contributed to the delay in getting the car by not co-operating with the garage. He said Mrs P 
would always have  been required to be available to receive the car. And he thought she 
could have got to the medical  appointment she missed by public  transport in six minutes.
The investigator didnt  accept that Aviva  hadnt responded to Mrs Ps emails. He said it had 
also called  her - given her insistence that her situation was extremely  time-sensitive. And he 
told Mrs P that in his opinion, Avivas error in asking again for consent  to deal with Mr S had 
a minimal effect on what happened. Mrs P was unhappy with the investigators view. As 
there was no agreement,  the complaint was passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
I think the policys clear about  the fact that a courtesy car may not be available  over a 
weekend. Thats because the cars are provided by Avivas  approved  garages,  which  are 
normally closed then.  In this case, the next working day was Monday, 3 December 2018. So 
I think in order to abide by the policys terms, Aviva had to aim to provide a car to Mrs P 
within 24 hours of that day. Meanwhile, it tried to assist her to get a hire car.
Avivas provided copies of numerous emails and a large number of calls. I think  its clear 
from the emails and the calls that Avivas advisors  tried to ensure that Mrs P got a car as 
soon as possible. In particular, advisor  D chased  the business that manages Avivas  
network of approved garages (firm V). She also chased its agent to check firm As progress, 
as firm A was charged with getting  Mrs Ps damaged car to the garage.
I think if all had gone well, Mrs Ps car would have  arrived at the garage  on Monday,
3 December 2018, and a courtesy car would have been provided. But Aviva  couldnt control 
firm As schedule.  Firm A had other  jobs to deal with. It decided it couldnt be sure it would 
be able to get Mrs Ps car to Avivas  garage   some  distance away - before it closed on 
Monday. So the car was delivered the next morning. I dont  think that was an unreasonable  
delay. And in any event,  in my opinion, there was nothing Aviva  could do about it.
Theres a dispute  about what happened next. Advisor D had called the garage to check  that 
it had a car available  for Mrs P on Monday 3 December 2018. The garage said it did, and 
that one would be available the next day, too. Theres evidence in Avivas file notes that the 
garage called Aviva the next day to say it had left a message for Mrs P to call it about  the 
courtesy car. But Mrs P says there  was no message. I cant see any reason why the garage 
would have told Aviva  in advance that it had left a message if it hadnt. So I think its more  
likely than not that it left a message for Mrs P on 4 December 2018. I cant say its Avivas  
fault that she didnt get the message. 
Ive listened to a call the garage made to firm V on Wednesday,  5 December 2018. The 
garage asked firm V what it should  do next. It said Mrs P had insisted on the courtesy car 
being delivered by 11am,  and that wasnt possible, due to other bookings. The garage also 
told firm V that Mrs P hadnt co-operated with it during  calls and that she kept hanging up. It 
said Mrs P wouldnt allow  it to explain its process and go through the paperwork. Firm V told 
the garage it couldnt force Mrs P to co-operate, and passed  a message about this to Aviva. 
Ref: DRN29160943It seems  that later on that day, the garage  was able to complete the necessary process with 
Mrs P, as a car was dispatched to her. But I think the call shows its more  likely than not that 
Mrs P delayed the allocation of the courtesy car to her on 5 December 2018. She called the 
garage at 3.30pm to say that shed been  told delivery would  be between 1pm and 5pm.  The 
garage said it was waiting for the delivery  driver  to return from another  job. As the car wasnt  
delivered until 6.22pm,  Mrs P missed her sons medical appointment.   
Mrs P says she was told by the garage at 4pm that the car was on its way, and she says the 
garage was only an hour away. Thats why she stayed home rather  than going  to the 
medical appointment on public transport. We asked Aviva to check why the car wasnt  
delivered until 6.22pm.  It said one hour was the optimal travelling time between the garage 
and Mrs Ps home. But as the driver set off in peak  traffic conditions,  and had to travel 
through a major city, the journey took far longer.  I think thats a reasonable explanation.
Mrs P told us Aviva had said shed have  the courtesy car by 12 noon that day. She said 
Aviva put that in writing to her. Recently Mrs P has accepted that she cant  show  Aviva put it 
in writing. She said an advisor made  the statement on 4 December  2018  during a call with 
Mr S. As far as I can see, there were two calls between Aviva and Mr S that day. Ive 
listened to them, and Avivas advisors made  no reference to a 12 noon delivery. What they 
said was that the damaged car had arrived at the garage that day by 12 noon, that the 
garage had already tried to contact Mrs P and that it would call her again the next morning. 
I think its possible Mr S misheard  or misunderstood what Aviva said. Its also possible that 
he or Mrs P assumed there  was a right to a courtesy car from the garage within  24 hours of 
their car arriving there. But I havent  seen anything to show thats  the case. Aviva isnt able 
to control the delivery times of its approved repairers. The garage had other bookings. And I 
think its likely Mrs P caused  a delay in the delivery time, given the facts set out above. 
Some inconvenience is unavoidable when a consumers car isnt drivable after an accident. 
When the accident happens  during a weekend,  the inconvenience is usually worse. Mrs P 
would always have  had to be available to accept the courtesy car. I understand why she was 
so upset to miss her sons medical appointment. But I dont think the evidence shows  that 
Aviva can reasonably be blamed for that. 
Turning to Mrs Ps other complaints, I dont  think Avivas  responsible  for any dispute that 
arose between her and the independent car hire firm. In terms of the late collection of the 
damaged car, Ive listened to a call between  Aviva and its agent. The agent said the first 
recovery slot had to be cancelled, as Mrs P said shed only be available  for a certain  time,  
and then put the phone down. Aviva got the collection  re-arranged,  so the car was in safe 
storage on the day of the accident regardless of the delay. And I dont think  the evidence 
shows it was Avivas  fault  or that of its agent - that the car wasnt  collected earlier. 
Mrs P complained about Avivas error in asking for consent to speak to Mr S when shed 
already given her consent. Whilst that shouldnt  have  happened, I think  this is a minor  issue.  
And it could  have been put right immediately  had Mrs P (who  was talking in the background 
whilst Mr S was making the call) simply told the advisor she could deal with Mr S. But Mrs P 
wouldnt take the call. Instead, she said from the background that the advisor should listen  to 
the earlier call in which shed given consent.  
Mrs Ps other concern was that Aviva hadnt  responded  to her emails or added  the images  
shed sent to her file on Saturday 1 December  2018. Ive listened  to the call in which an 
Ref: DRN29160944advisor explained that images dont automatically attach to a consumers claims file. Shed 
already agreed  to locate the images and attach them.  As this was only a couple of hours  
after the images were  received, I dont think it was unreasonable  that they hadnt yet been 
attached. And the engineer wouldnt have needed  them until the next working day anyway.
Mrs P sent Aviva numerous emails. I dont think all of them required an immediate response. 
Looking at the correspondence and the calls that were made  as a whole, I think it made a 
reasonable attempt to respond to Mrs P. Shed made it clear  how urgent she thought  her 
situation was. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to call her about some of her 
emails. Mrs P says she was harassed  by calls. I dont think  that was the case,  and I note that 
Mrs P initiated some  calls herself.  
Ive listened to the call in which advisor  D called Mrs P to discuss an email Mrs P had sent 
Aviva on 2 December 2018.  Mrs P told advisor  D to read her email first and call her back, 
then hung up. Mrs P later called Aviva  to speak to advisor D. In that call Mrs D said shed 
hung up because  advisor D hadnt read her emails. I think the file notes show  that advisor D 
had read the emails  and thats  why she made  the call to Mrs P. Unfortunately, advisor  D 
wasnt able to deal with Mrs Ps concerns, as Mrs P didnt allow her to speak.  
Mrs Ps car was taken  to safe storage on the day of the accident,  and she had the chance to 
have a hire car that day. Aviva chased the recovery agent and the garage on the next 
working day to ensure  Mrs P got a courtesy  car as soon as possible. It wasnt to blame for 
her car not getting to the garage until Tuesday, 4 December 2018. A courtesy car was 
available that day and was delivered the next day. And I think the evidence  shows that Mrs P 
contributed to the short delay in her cars collection and the delay in getting the courtesy car. 
In my opinion, the correspondence and the calls show that Mrs P found  dealing with the 
aftermath of the accident difficult and extremely stressful.  But as I think Aviva and its agents  
acted reasonably throughout, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2916094