K821x#15Complaint
Mrs H has complained that Apfin Ltd (trading as Cashasap.co.uk) is asking her to return  the 
advance on a loan she didnt take out.
Background
Mrs H was the victim of identity fraud. 
A third party  applied to Cashasap  for a loan in Mrs Hs name.  The loan advance was paid 
into a current account, which  was opened  in her name and at her bank. After  completing its 
own investigation, her bank confirmed shed been  the victim of identity fraud and closed the 
account. It also removed  any link between  her and the fraudulent  account  from her credit file.
Cashasap accepted the loan application  had been  made fraudulently. It agreed to write  off 
the interest and remove the details from Mrs Hs credit file. But it asked her to return  the loan 
advance. It said she should seek compensation from her bank and repay the advance from 
any compensation she received. It said this service had asked the consumer in another 
similar case to do this.
As Mrs H didnt  agree with this decision, she asked  this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided to uphold it. She recommended that 
Cashasap:
stop asking  Mrs H to pay back the loan advance
remove any negative information  relating  to the loan from her credit file, and 
pay her £150 for the trouble and upset it caused her.
Cashasap agreed  to stop pursuing Mrs H for the loan advance  but not to pay £150. It said 
Mrs H hadnt been affected by the fraud or the subsequent complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint.
Cashasap has agreed to stop pursuing  Mrs H for the loan advance. It has also amended  her 
credit file. So, this dispute  is only about  how much compensation it should  pay her, if any.
However, I feel obliged  to set out why I agree with the investigators assessment. This will 
also help to explain why I consider Cashasap  should pay compensation.
Theres no dispute that Mrs H was the victim  of identity fraud. Cashasap agrees she didnt  
apply for the loan.  And, she didnt receive  the loan advance. It was paid into an account 
which was opened  fraudulently in her name by a third party.  The beneficiary of that account 
was the third party, not Mrs H. She had nothing to do with that account.
However, Cashasap  pursued a personal claim against Mrs H because it was her bank who 
allowed the fraudulent account  to be opened.  I dont  think this was fair or reasonable. 
Ref: DRN28255592Cashasap had no contractual  relationship with Mrs H as she didnt take out the loan. She 
also had no knowledge  of the loan and loan advance wasnt paid into her account.
Theres absolutely no obligation  on Mrs H to return  any monies  to Cashasap. And as the 
account was opened fraudulently, then shes not the accountholder. I cant see how she can 
even ask her bank for compensation  or for the return of the loan advance. Thats  a matter 
between the third party and the bank.
Cashasap was also wrong to rely on the previous case. It wasnt  a similar  case and the 
ombudsman didnt make  a final decision. It was resolved informally. It was different on the 
facts because the fraudulent loan was paid into the consumers own account. So, it was 
reasonable to ask the consumer to pay it back.
This dispute should never have come  here.  Cashasap should have settled it 18 months ago. 
But it has and of course Mrs H has been  affected.  She was asked to pay back a loan 
advance which was nothing to do with her. That was a worry for her. And then she was 
obliged to bring her complaint to this service when Cashasap wouldnt stop pursuing her.
For these reasons, I consider that £150 is a fair and reasonable  amount  of compensation for 
her trouble  and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint  and Im asking Apfin Ltd (trading as 
Cashasap.co.uk) to:
stop asking  Mrs H to pay back the loan advance  and any other monies
cancel the loan agreement
remove all adverse  information relating to the loan from her credit  file
pay Mrs H £150 for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2825559