K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that John  Lewis  Financial Services Limited did not close his credit  card 
account when  he instructed  it to do so. He also complains that the business should  not be 
pursuing him for debt on the account incurred after he instructed that it be closed.
background
In a letter dated 4 June  2018 Mr W asked  John Lewis Financial  Services  (JLFS) to close  his 
credit card account with effect from 7 June. He said JLFS  shouldnt allow  any transactions  
beyond that date and he wouldnt accept responsibility for any that occurred. 
In a letter dated 22 June JLFS replied  saying it wasnt  able to close the account because  
Mr W had an outstanding  balance of almost £1,400, which he would  first need  to repay. Until 
such time as he did, it could put a block on the account and that Mr W should make  contact  
if he wanted that to happen.
Mr W replied enclosing a cheque in settlement  of the balance as at 7 June, but refusing to 
take responsibility for spending beyond that date. He again  asked for the account  to be 
closed.
Spending on the account continued.  But as Mr W made no further  monthly repayments JLFS  
wrote to him about  the account arrears. Mr W sent a number of further letters  culminating  in 
a complaint. Receiving no substantive response to that, in October he complained  to us.
Shortly after that JLFS  wrote saying it wasnt upholding Mr Ws complaint and it explained 
why. It also said that if he didnt pay the accumulated  arrears  his credit file would be 
adversely affected.  JLFS  has continued to pursue Mr W  both in writing  and by phone - for 
the debt it believes  he owes,  and has reported  the arrears to credit reference agencies.  
And so in addition  to his original complaint Mr W has added  a further complaint that JLFS 
shouldnt have continued to pursue him for the debt whilst we were looking into it.
Our adjudicator didnt  consider that we should uphold  Mr Ws complaint. In summary, he 
said that he didnt  think JLFS had done  anything wrong and that Mr W was responsible for 
all spending  on his account notwithstanding  the fact that he had asked JLFS  to close it.
Mr W disagreed  with the adjudicators view and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
doing so he re-emphasised  points  he had made  previously. In particular he said that JLFS 
should not have reported matters to credit  reference  agencies  whilst there was a legitimate  
dispute about the money it alleged he owed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W wrote  to JLFS  on 4 June asking it to close his account on 7 June. But as there was an 
outstanding balance JLFS replied on 22 June  saying it wouldnt do so until Mr W paid the 
debt he owed. However, it said it would block the account should Mr W request  that it do so. 
On 30 June Mr W paid the balance as at 7 June and again asked that the account be closed, 
but he didnt take up the offer of placing a block on the account. However, as spending  on 
Ref: DRN27832742the account had continued  after 7 June, JLFS refused Mr Ws repeated closure  request  as 
he still had an outstanding balance.
In writing to JLFS with an account closure  date,  I would then have expected  Mr W to have 
acted consistently  with his own request by not using the account after that date. But he didnt 
and spending  on the account continued. And so as the account was in his name,  and the 
spending wasnt fraudulent, then contractually Mr W bears responsibility for it.
But Mr W has argued that JLFS should automatically have placed a block  on the account  
when it received his closure letter as it was self-evident that that was what  he wanted  it to 
do. For its part JLFS  had said that it wouldnt automatically block further  use of an account 
following a closure  request  where there was an outstanding balance, but that even  if it had, 
this wouldnt have prevented the account from being used for the collection of the regular 
subscriptions Mr W had with specific  retailers as only he could cancel those contracts. 
The key consideration here is that Mr W continued  to use his account either directly, or 
indirectly by virtue of permission he had given to others, after the date he decided it should 
close and before he knew whether JLFS would agree to that. And even though  I accept that 
JLFS could have  blocked the account  on processing Mr Ws closure letter, which  in any 
event would have  been later than the 7 June date Mr W had set, that is not the way JLFS 
operates. It is not within my remit to interfere  with legitimate business practices, but even if it 
were I am not of the view that JLFS has acted unreasonably here. 
Even after JLFS had written to Mr W on 22 June offering  him the opportunity to block the 
account he didnt  do so. And having  looked at his statements I can see that spending on the 
account continued for some months, and that by January 2019  the amount outstanding  was 
almost £3,000 including various late fees and other  associated charges. 
Having considered the detail of what has happened here I have  no doubt that Mr W is 
responsible for the balance on his account, which must be repaid before the account can be 
closed.
Mr W complains that JLFS continued to pursue him for the debt even though he was 
disputing it. Generally I wouldnt expect a business to cease debt collection activities 
because that debt was the subject of a complaint  to us. But were I to uphold the complaint I 
would instruct the business to remove all adverse entries it had reported to credit reference 
agencies and, in awarding compensation, I would take account of the distress and 
inconvenience the debt collection activities had caused the customer.
But those  circumstances  dont apply here and so I do not criticise JLFS  for continuing to 
send Mr W what  I consider to be routine debt collection letters  about his arrears and for 
trying to contact him by phone.  Mr W has objected to the fact that some of the calls were at 
about 8am and therefore too early, but Im afraid I dont agree with him on this point. As far 
as JLFS was concerned  it was trying to collect a debt and it seems  to me not unreasonable  
for it to have phoned  at times  when it thought  people  most likely to be at home, such  as early 
morning or in the evening.
Mr W has complained about JLFS internal communications  system in that he was being 
pursued for payments by one part of the organisation whilst  another part was dealing with 
his complaint. But lenders are required to send  arrears letters where  they believe they are 
owed money even if the arrears are subject to dispute. Many  of the letters  sent to Mr W fell 
into this standard  category and were  being sent to keep him up to date with the spending on 
Ref: DRN27832743his account, the arrears  that were accumulating and the actions that JLFS might take if he 
didnt pay the sum owed.  Im afraid I cannot reasonably criticise JLFS for its actions here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2783274