K820x#14complaint
Miss G says MYJAR  Limited (MYJAR) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss G took out three payday loans with MYJAR  between May2014 and June 2016. A 
summary of Miss Gs borrowing history is set out on the table below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
Repaidterm Amount Original 
Repayment
Amount
1 17/05/2014 28/05/2014 18 days £100.00 £120.00
2 10/06/2014 27/06/2014 18 days £100.00 £120.00
3 30/06/2014 outstanding 18 days £200.00 £240.00
Our adjudicator considered Miss Gs complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.  Miss G 
didnt agree with the adjudicators view and asked that the matter be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss G could  repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN24668462I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss G could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint. Having  done  this, Ive decided  not to 
uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
When MYJAR lent Miss G her loans,  it asked Miss G to confirm  her net monthly  income, her 
expenditure and an affordability  check was carried out for each loan. In addition, MYJAR  
also conducted other checks including fraud checks and an affordability assessment. Ive 
seen a copy of the report  that MYJAR  would  have had sight  of before it gave loans 1-3.
As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, I wouldnt  necessarily expect MYJAR to 
undertake a full review  of Miss Gs financial circumstances. In this case,  when thinking about  
what it knew about Miss G at the time as well as the monthly commitments she had and the 
loan amounts being provided, I think the checks it did were proportionate. At the time 
MYJAR gave Miss G her first three loans I dont think it would have established from   the  
information it received  that Miss G was having  problems managing her money.
Although Miss G has provided a copy of her credit report, which  shows that Miss G had 
other short-term lending by the time she took out loan 3, at that time I dont think MYJAR 
would have seen  this report and I dont think it would  have been proportionate for MYJAR to 
do any further checks or verify the information  Miss G supplied  to them. And although the 
gaps in lending  were quite small it was still early  on in the relationship so again I still think 
the checks were proportionate and wouldnt have put MYJAR on notice of the fact that Miss 
G may have  been having problems managing her money.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think MYJARS assessment  for this loan was 
proportionate and the checks  it carried out showed it that Miss G could likely afford the 
repayments she was committed  to. So, it follows that I think  that when Miss G applied for the 
three loans,  MYJARS decision to lend was reasonable.  
It appears there is an outstanding balance on loan 3 and that Miss G may have fallen into 
difficulty keeping up with her repayments.  I remind MYJAR of its duty to treat her fairly  if she 
is in financial difficulties.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Miss G. But it follows that for the reasons set out above, I havent  
upheld the complaint. I dont need  to tell MYJAR  to take any further action in respect of it. 
my final decision
For the reason  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN24668463Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2466846