K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained that Hastings  Insurance Services Limited unfairly cancelled her car 
insurance policy. 
background
Miss W bought a car insurance policy in June  2018 through  Hastings with an insurer. She 
thought shed provided all of the verification documents  Hastings  asked her for. But Hastings 
 on behalf of the insurer as the administrator of the policy - cancelled  Miss Ws policy in 
July 2018 as it said it didnt receive documents to verify the named driver.
Miss W had mistakenly resent documents about  herself as she misunderstood Hastings 
request. 
Miss W complained to Hastings. She understood she made an error  but she felt Hastings 
could have communicated more clearly with her to prevent the cancellation. Miss W was 
unhappy Hastings  charged an arrangement fee, cancellation  fee as well as being charged  
for the days she was insured. Miss W wanted a full refund. 
Hastings said it acted  correctly. So Miss W asked us to look at things for her. 
Our investigator thought Hastings should have let Miss W know  when she resent her own 
documents that it needed documents for the named driver. Instead, Hastings acknowledged 
receipt of what Miss W sent  but cancelled her policy a week  later. The investigator 
recommended Hastings refund Miss W its cancellation fee of £45 and it remove the 
cancellation from any internal and external databases. 
Miss W didnt make  any new comments.  Hastings didnt agree. It said it was very clear  in its 
communication with Miss W about  what the insurer  needed. So Hastings  wants  an 
ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
I think Hastings was clear in its email to Miss W dated 5 July 2018 that it had received  some 
information  but it still needed the remaining pages of the V5 document and the driving 
licence and unique  code for the named driver. In this email  Hastings  explained that if it didnt 
receive the information it asked for, Miss Ws policy would  either  change  or cancel on 
12 July 2018.  Hastings asked Miss W to email the requested  documents.
However, it also said:
What happens next?
Once we have this information well check it against  your policy  and let you know  if we need 
anything else.
On 6 July 2018 Miss W resent the code for her driving licence along  with the remaining 
pages of the V5 document. She wrote that shed sent the code in her original email. 
Ref: DRN27467702Miss W didnt realise the information she needed  to send  was for the named driver. This was 
a mistake on her part, which she accepts.
On 6 July 2018 Hastings  emailed Miss W and said:
Thanks for your email.  I have attached  the received documents to your policy.
I think it was reasonable  for Miss W to assume  from this reply that Hastings didnt need any 
further information to prevent the cancellation of her policy. I say this because when 
Hastings received some documents from Miss W before, it replied and explained what  was 
missing. And Hastings said it would let Miss W know if it needed  anything  else  once it had 
the information. It received the rest of the V5 document  but didnt let Miss W know shed 
sent the code  for herself instead of the named driver. I think  this was poor customer service. 
I think Hastings didnt  do enough here as its acknowledgement dated 6 July 2018 suggested 
all was well. So I can understand  why Miss W was shocked and upset when she received 
Hastings letter dated 13 July 2018 to tell her it had cancelled her policy  on 12 July 2018.  
I therefore think Hastings  was unreasonable to Miss W when it carried out the cancellation of 
her policy on 12 July 2018. I think Miss W should  pay for the days  she was insured by the 
insurer. And as Hastings set up the policy, its entitled to charge an arrangement  fee. But I 
think it should refund its cancellation fee of £45 to Miss W. And it should provide a letter  for 
Miss W to show to future  insurers to tell her that Hastings  cancelled her policy in error. 
I dont think isnt fair that Miss W should  be penalised by having the cancellation recorded 
against her. This can have a negative  effect on the premium Miss W pays. If Hastings can 
arrange for the cancellation to be removed by the insurer  from all internal and external 
databases (if its been recorded), I think it should  do this. If not, the letter should provide the 
same outcome for Miss W. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Hastings Insurance  Services Limited  to do the following:
-refund  Miss W the cancellation fee it charged her of £45. It should pay interest on 
this sum from the date of cancellation  to the date it refunds her at a rate of 8% 
simple interest a year.
-Provide a letter to Miss W confirming her policy was cancelled in error. If 
possible, to also ask the insurer  to remove the cancellation from all internal and 
external databases.  If the insurer disagrees,  Hastings letter should provide the 
same outcome for Miss W as she can show future insurers.
Hastings Insurance  Services Limited  must  pay the refund within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss W accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the sum from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate 
of 8% a year.
If Hastings Insurance  Services Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken 
off. It should  also give Miss W a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN27467703Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2746770