K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about how esure  Insurance  Limited handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy that led to court proceedings being issued against him. He wants £250  
compensation.
  
background
Mr F was involved in an accident and he said he wasnt at fault. He instructed solicitors  to 
pursue his claim for personal injuries.  Correspondence from the other  drivers solicitors  was 
passed to esure, but Mr F said it didnt deal with it. The other  driver  then issued court 
proceedings against Mr F so that he was the defendant rather  than the claimant.  esure 
agreed it had made a mistake and it offered Mr F £50 compensation. But he thought  this 
should be increased to £250.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought esure 
had acted to resolve  the issue as soon as it was brought  to its attention. She agreed that its 
mistake had caused Mr F stress, but she didnt  think this had prejudiced Mr Fs position. So 
she thought esures  offer of £50 compensation was sufficient. 
Mr F replied that he wanted his complaint  reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure said the problem  arose because it appointed its panel solicitors  to deal with Mr Fs 
claim when  hed already  appointed his own solicitors to deal with a personal injury  claim. 
The panel  solicitors then didnt act on correspondence sent to them. And so Mr F was issued 
with a court summons.  
When a business  makes a mistake, as esure agrees it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers  position. We also consider the impact  the error  had on the consumer.
I can see that as soon as Mr F contacted esure about the summons it investigated  what had 
gone wrong. It found that its panel solicitors wouldnt act for Mr Fs damage claim as he 
already had his own solicitors. So esure appointed another panel solicitor  to defend Mr F. 
This took about  two weeks and I can see that esure  kept Mr F reasonably  updated during 
this time. So I think esure acted promptly to resolve the problem  when it was brought to its 
attention. 
esure agreed that it should have handled  matters better. And so it paid Mr F £50 in 
acknowledgement of the stress  caused by his receiving the court summons directly.  I think 
this was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar situations.
Mr F was concerned that he was now the defendant rather than the claimant.  But I cant  see 
that this will prejudice  Mr Fs position if the matter proceeds to court.  As the adjudicator has 
explained, the court will seek  to establish liability regardless of who is the claimant. 
Ref: DRN23757082Mr F also thought that if esure had acted as it should have, then court proceedings could 
have been avoided. But I dont have enough  information to establish  this. From what I can 
see, the other drivers  insurer declined liability at the point when Mr F said he wanted to 
make a personal injury  claim. This was before hed notified esure of the incident. Mr F may 
have had to consider court proceedings in any case.  
So whilst I think the threat of having  to go to court is stressful,  I think  esures offer of £50 
compensation for this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont  require it to 
increase this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2375708