K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complained about the way Gefion Insurance A/S told him it was going  to cancel his 
taxi insurance policy.  He was also unhappy that it took £209 from him.
Reference to Gefion includes its agent.
background
Mr R took out a policy with Gefion through a broker. When he bought  the policy he said his 
taxi had eight  seats. When  he provided a copy of the V5 document it incorrectly said the taxi 
had nine seats. So, Gefion wrote to Mr R and his broker and said it was going to cancel the 
policy as it didnt cover vehicles with nine seats.
Mr R was unhappy to receive this letter  over a bank holiday weekend.  He said the letter 
didnt say why the policy was going  to be cancelled and he had the worry of waiting until the 
Tuesday to find out what was going to happen.
Mr R phoned Gefion  to find out what was happening. He said it was rude to him on the 
phone and told him it was his brokers  fault. Gefion said it had provided  Mr Rs broker  with 
the information about why it was going  to cancel his policy  and it didnt have direct 
communication with him. However  it accepted  the V5 was incorrect and didnt go ahead with 
the cancellation.
Mr R was unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said Gefion should have given him 
clear information and said it had also taken money from him which he thought was 
fraudulent. 
Our adjudicator thought Gefion had treated Mr R fairly. She didnt think it was responsible  for 
letting him know why the policy  was cancelled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr R bought his policy  he had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. Mr Rs 
policy says that if he doesnt give the correct information when buying the policy it can 
cancel it in line with its cancellation terms. The cancellation terms say Gefion can cancel the 
policy as long as it gives seven days notice in writing.
Theres no disputing that Mr R gave  a fair presentation of the risk as his taxi did have eight 
seats. However when  Gefion received  the policy document it thought Mr R had provided 
incorrect information, as the V5 wrongly showed  nine seats. 
As the V5 showed nine seats I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Gefion to rely on it. 
Although I do think it should have tried to clarify things  with Mr Rs broker  first. As Mr R 
bought his policy through a broker I can see Gefion contacted  that broker  to let it know  the 
reason it was going to cancel his policy. So, Im satisfied Gefion did contact  the broker to 
provide Mr R with an opportunity to correct the information.
Ref: DRN20082912Ive seen a call log showing  the broker then tried to call Mr R to let him know  what was 
happening and to ask about the seats.  Unfortunately the broker didnt get through to him 
which meant Gefions letter came as a shock.  However, I think Gefion did try to find out 
whether the information was correct before cancelling  the policy. And I can understand why 
it would  have cancelled  the policy, if the V5 had been correct, as it wouldnt have covered 
him. Gefion  also followed  the terms of the policy as I can see it gave Mr R seven days  
notice. 
Gefion said it didnt  have  direct communication with Mr R but it did ultimately send him the 
cancellation letter. I do think  it would have been  helpful if the letter had given a reason for 
the cancellation, but the letter also referred Mr R to his broker for clarification. The broker did 
have the information and had already  tried to contact him the day before. Also while the 
thought of having a policy  cancelled would be upsetting, Mr R wasnt  ultimately  without cover  
as his policy was never  cancelled.
I understand Mr Rs unhappy  that Gefion took £209 for his policy  as a deposit. However the 
sale was through  a broker so I dont think Gefion is responsible  to taking that deposit.  Also 
Gefion has provided  cover for Mr R until his policy later cancelled in November 2018, due to 
him selling his taxi. So, its reasonable that Gefion received payment for that policy and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest its been fraudulent.  
Mr R spoke to different businesses to try to sort out his insurance. In the call I listened to 
between Mr R and Gefion  I didnt  hear anything to make me think  Gefion was rude or 
unprofessional.
While I can understand Mr Rs frustrations at the possibility of his policy  being  incorrectly 
cancelled I think Gefion  acted fairly  and reasonably. So, Im not going  to ask it to do 
anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2008291