K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly placed a Credit Industry Fraud  Avoidance 
System (CIFAS)  marker  against his name. He says this has stopped him from getting a 
mortgage. He wants Capital One to remove the marker and compensate him for the distress  
and inconvenience  the marker caused.  
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 13 August 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think Capital One had enough  evidence  to 
satisfy the criteria set out in the CIFAS guidelines to apply a marker against  Mr Gs name in 
2013. I said Capital  One hadnt  carried out sufficient checks  to satisfy the burden of proof 
required to apply the maker. So it had treated Mr G unfairly when it applied  the marker. 
In my provisional decision,  I considered  the impact the CIFAS marker had on Mr G. And 
based on the evidence, I wasnt satisfied that Mr G hadnt been able to obtain  a mortgage a 
because of the CIFAS  marker. And he hadnt  suffered  any financial loss. However, I was 
satisfied that once Mr G been  made aware of the markers existence, which was in February 
2019, hed spent time making  phone calls and sending emails to Capital One in an effort to 
try and have the marker removed. 
So I was satisfied that this issue had caused  Mr G some  trouble and upset. And I considered 
that the circumstances  were such that Mr G was entitled to some compensation for what  
took place  once he was aware of the marker. I said Capital One should pay Mr G £100  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to him. 
Capital One responded setting out that it accepted my provisional  decision. Mr G didnt  
respond. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr G and Capital One havent made  any more  comments, or offered any more evidence, 
my findings  about  this complaint havent changed. 
I can see that this issue  has had an impact on Mr G and caused him trouble and upset. I say 
this because Mr G had to make several  phone calls and write emails  to Capital One to try 
and have the CIFAS  maker removed. In this case I dont think  Capital  One did enough to 
listen to what Mr G was telling them or let Mr G know what evidence he could provide about 
the activity on his account that led to the CIFAS  marker being applied.  
Overall, I consider that the circumstances here are such  that Mr G is entitled to some  
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes been  caused. So I think  Capital One should  pay 
Mr G £100 compensation  for what took place.  I think that amount fairly  reflects the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Ref: DRN21273182my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. And direct Capital One (Europe) plc 
to pay Mr G £100 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused  by Capital one unfairly 
placing a CIFAS marker against Mr Gs name.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21273183COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G complains Capital One (Europe)  plc unfairly placed a Credit  Industry  Fraud  Avoidance System 
(CIFAS) marker against  his name. He says this has stopped him from getting a mortgage. He wants 
Capital One to remove  the marker and compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused. 
background
In 2012, Mr G opened  a credit card account  with Capital One.
In 2013, three  cheques  were paid into Mr Gs account:
23 January 2013 cheque payment for £200.00
6 February 2013  cheque payment for £580.00
20 March 2013 cheque payment for £600.00
The cheques which were paid into Mr Gs account didnt clear  in other words they bounced. Capital 
One reviewed Mr Gs account activity  and said Mr G had issued payments  to his account  knowing  the 
cheques wouldnt  clear, and spent against  the payments prior to the cheques being returned as 
unpaid.
Based on Mr Gs account  activity Capital  One thought Mr G had misused his account. So they applied 
a CIFAS  marker. Capital One didnt ask Mr G any questions about  the payments into his account 
before making the decision  to apply  the CIFAS marker.  
Mr G says it was only in January 2019 when he tried to buy a property and apply for a mortgage  that 
he discovered  Capital One had placed a CIFAS marker against his name  in 2013.  He said he didnt 
know anything about the cheque payments into his account. And believes someone else may have 
paid them into his account. Mr G complained to Capital One. And he asked Capital  One to remove the 
CIFAS marker. 
Mr G says his mortgage was declined  because of the marker. And he wants  Capital One to pay 
compensation for the legal costs he incurred for his failed house purchase. Mr G says hes also 
incurred further financial losses and stress when several  business  deals were  cancelled as a result of 
the fraud marker. He wants  Capital  One to pay him £21,000 compensation.
Capital One said it hadnt done anything wrong  when  it applied the CIFAS  marker against 
Mr Gs name. And its pointed out that the marker against Mr Gs name expired in June 2019.  
Unhappy with this response Mr G brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Gs case and asked Mr G and Capital  One some additional questions  
about the payments. Mr G said he wasnt in the UK between  January  and June 2013.  And he was 
overseas caring for a sick relative.  Mr G said he wasnt responsible for paying in the three cheques. 
He told us that whilst abroad he used different bank  accounts. And not his Capital  One credit card. 
The investigator looked  at Mr Gs credit  card statements  and noted  that it was being  used in the UK 
during the time Mr G said he was abroad. She also noted that Mr G hadnt disputed  these  
transactions. And that his account was in arrears and had been defaulted in June 2013.
Capital One said Mr Gs credit card was used against the cheque  payments prior to them  being  
returned. And thinks Mr G was paying in cheques he knew would be returned unpaid by the payees 
bank. So it said the CIFAS marker had been correctly  applied. 
Ref: DRN21273184An investigator looked  into Mr Gs complaint. She thought Capital One was unfair when it applied  the 
CIFAS marker. She asked Capital One to provide evidence it had carried out an investigation at the 
time to make  sure the marker was applied  correctly. And evidence to show that Mr G was responsible 
for paying in the cheques. But due to the passage  of time Capital One said it was unable to provide 
anything. So the investigator said Capital  One shouldnt  have recorded a CIFAS marker against Mr 
Gs name. 
The investigator looked  at the impact the marker  had on Mr G. She noted  that he hadnt been aware 
of the marker  until January  2019 and asked  him to provide evidence of how the marker had impacted 
him given hed only recently discovered the existence of the marker. Despite repeated  requests to do 
so Mr G hasnt provided any evidence of how the marker caused him financial loss, distress or 
inconvenience. 
Capital One disagreed with the investigators view. It said it hadnt done anything  wrong when it 
applied the CIFAS marker. Mr G also disagreed. He said Capital One had discriminated against him 
and applied  a defamatory fraud alert against his name. And he wants  compensation for the impact the 
marker had on him.  
As no agreement could  be reached  the complaint  has come  to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator. Ill explain  why. 
CIFAS marker
Capital One says it applied the CIFAS marker because it believes Mr G deliberately paid cheques into 
his account knowing they wouldnt clear. And he spent against the payments before the cheques  were 
returned as unpaid. So Ive looked at whether Capital One was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, the investigation it carried  out. And what the rules say about applying  such markers.
CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried  out checks of sufficient depth  to meet the 
burden of proof  set by CIFAS,  which  at that time was that Capital One needed  to have enough  
information to make a formal complaint to the police  or other relevant  law enforcement agencies. And 
that any filing should be for confirmed cases of fraud, rather than mere suspicion. In addition,  CIFAS 
guidance sets out businesses are expected to retain the evidence they rely upon when applying  a 
CIFAS marker  for at least six years. 
Having looked at whats happened here, I havent seen any evidence that Capital  One contacted  Mr 
G at the time and asked him for information about the three  payments made  to his account. And it 
hasnt shown that it made any enquires regarding the unpaid cheques. So in this particular  case, I 
dont think Capital One carried out sufficient checks to satisfy the burden of proof required to apply the 
marker. 
I think  Capital One shouldve contacted Mr G at the time as this wouldve given him the opportunity to 
explain the circumstances surrounding the payments into his account. Had it done so, Mr G wouldve  
been able to explain more  about  the activity on his account. And what he knew about  the payments. 
Capital One wouldve also had the opportunity to make enquiries with other banks,  if necessary, 
regarding the cheques which were paid into Mr Gs account. And explore the possibility  that someone 
else paid the cheques into Mr Gs account as Mr G has suggested.
When I weigh everything up, I dont think Capital  One had enough  evidence to satisfy  the criteria  set 
out in the CIFAS guidelines. Capital One has also confirmed that due to the passage  of time it no 
longer has any details (including  copies) of the cheques which were paid into Mr Gs account. So I 
Ref: DRN21273185agree with the investigator that it was unfair for Capital  One to put the marker  against Mr G in these  
particular circumstances.  
Where something has gone wrong we look to see if a consumer has lost out. And to put the consumer 
back in the position  they would have been in had everything gone as it should  have. So Ive looked to 
see if there has been any financial loss for Mr G because Capital One applied  a CIFAS marker.
Mr G has told the investigator that as a result  of the CIFAS marker being applied  his mortgage 
application in early  2019 was declined.  And hes provided  us with an invoice for solicitor costs.  But Mr 
G hasnt  provided  any evidence to show that his application was declined because of the marker. 
Ive also kept in mind  that Mr G had defaults on his credit  file, which  wouldve become  known to 
lenders during credit  searches, as part of any mortgage application process. So even if 
Mr Gs credit file didnt have a CIFAS marker at the time of his application I think  its likely  his 
mortgage application wouldnt have  been  approved.  So I cant reasonably say that Capital  One 
applying a CIFAS marker against Mr Gs name caused Mr Gs mortgage application to be declined. 
And I cant make an award for the solicitor  costs which Mr G claims.
Mr G says hes suffered a great deal of distress and financial loss because  of the marker being  
applied. He says he has lost several business deals over the years after checks  revealed fraud alerts 
against his name. However, Mr G hasnt been able to provide any evidence  to support this. Ive also 
kept in mind that Mr G wasnt  aware of the marker until January 2019,  yet Mr G says over the last six 
years hes suffered tremendous financial loss and inconvenience  as a direct result of the marker. So 
Im unsure how Mr G can attribute what happened  to the existence  of the marker when  he wasnt 
aware of it until very recently. 
Having said that I can see that once  Mr G was aware of the marker he spent  time making   several  
phone calls and sending emails to Capital One in an effort to try and have  the marker  removed. And 
explain what  had happened.  So I can see that this issue has caused Mr G some trouble  and upset. 
And I consider  that the circumstances here are such that Mr G is entitled to some compensation  for 
what took place  once  he was aware  of the marker. I think Capital One should pay Mr G £100 
compensation for the trouble  and upset caused to him. 
discrimination
Mr G suspects the bank is discriminating against him on the grounds of his nationality.  And hes 
referred me to the Race Discrimination Act 2000. Whilst I recognise the strength of his feeling, Ive not 
seen any evidence to show any discrimination on the part of Capital One.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold  this complaint. And direct Capital One (Europe) plc 
to pay Mr G £100 compensation.
I now invite  Mr G and Capital  One (Europe) plc  to give me any further information theyd like me to 
consider before I make  my final decision.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2127318