K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He also thinks that 
the lender didnt respond adequately when he said he couldnt repay the loan as planned  
and that there has been a breach of complaints procedure.
background
Mr T was given  a loan of £600 by Loans2Go  in July 2018.  This was due to be repaid in 18 
monthly instalments  of around £135.  The total amount payable, including  interest, was just 
over £2,446. I understand the loan remains outstanding. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ts complaint. He didnt think Loans2Go  had 
done anything  wrong.  Mr T didnt  agree  with the adjudicators assessment,  and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ts complaint.
I think there are several overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans2Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr 
T would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?  If so, did it make  a fair 
lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have  
shown at the time?
Did Loans2Go act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Loans2Go were required  to take reasonable  steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr T 
irresponsibly. This means that it had to carry out reasonable  and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that he could  repay the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to 
carry out a borrower  focussed assessment - sometimes  referred to as an affordability  
assessment or affordability  check. 
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. These  
checks could take into account a number  of different things,  such as the loan amount, the 
repayment amounts  and Mr Ts income  and expenditure.  But there  was no set list of checks  
Loans2Go had to do.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
Ref: DRN24022422the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments  and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr T.
Loans2Go carried out some checks before it lent to Mr T. This included  checking his income 
and expenditure  and carrying  out some credit  checks. Loans2Go says the loan was 
affordable for him. 
Ive seen a summary  of the information gathered  by Loans2Go at the time, including Mr Ts 
credit report.  Mr T thinks that his credit report should have prompted Loans2Go to pursue 
further lending  checks. Ive carefully considered whether the information  that Loans2Go 
gathered at the time should reasonably  have  triggered further checks.  On balance, I dont 
think that it did.
There was some adverse  information on Mr Ts credit report. But given the type of lending, I 
think a lender would reasonably expect to see some adverse information on a consumers 
credit history.   Mr T had a County Court Judgment  that was still to be satisfied and some 
defaulted accounts. But the CCJ dated  from around a year earlier and I think  it would have 
been reasonable for Loans2Go to consider the defaults to be historic. The report  also 
showed that Mr T had opened around  8 accounts in the last 12 months. But previous loans 
had mostly  been  paid off in 2017 or by early  2018.  I think it would have been fair for 
Loans2Go to have considered the open,  active credit showing  on Mr Ts report  to be 
reasonable and generally showing a positive payment history.   The report shows that Mr T 
had a 90% credit card utilisation but this appears to be in respect of one open credit  card 
with a balance  of £249 on a card with a limit of £250. Overall,  I dont think  there was 
anything on the credit report which ought  reasonably to have been of additional concern to 
Loans2Go.
Loans2Go asked  Mr T for information about his income and expenditure and it also used an 
online verification  tool. Mr T disagrees  with the adjustments that Loans2Go made  to its 
calculation following verification. I think in the circumstances these adjustments were  
reasonable. But even if Loans2Go hadnt  made these adjustments,  I dont think its likely it 
would have come  to a different decision about lending  to Mr T. 
On balance, I think the checks that Loans2Go carried out before lending  to Mr T were 
reasonable and proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Loans2Go 
to have relied on the information that Mr T provided and what  it found  it its checks.  If Mr T 
was in a more difficult financial position,  this doesnt appear to be something that he shared 
with Loans2Go  at that time, or something that proportionate checks  would have uncovered. I 
dont think there was anything in the information  that Loans2Go gathered  at the time which  
should have caused the lender any additional  concerns about Mr Ts financial position  when 
he applied  for the loan.  Or that ought  reasonably to have led the lender to conclude  that his 
loan application  should be declined. 
Mr T has also complained that the loan was mis sold for various reasons and that he wasnt  
made aware  of the term of borrowing or the amount payable until after hed signed  the loan 
agreement. He says he asked for the loan to be £600 over 6 months. But Mr T had to 
actively engage in the loan application process, and I think  its likely that he was made aware  
Ref: DRN24022423of the loan term and amounts payable at the time. And Ive not seen anything  to suggest that 
hed raised any queries  or concerns about  this after hed taken  the loan.
Taking everything into account,  I dont find that Loans2Go lent to Mr T irresponsibly. 
Has Loans2Go  treat Mr T unfairly in any other  way?
Mr T has complained that Loans2Go refused to negotiate with him when he stated he was in 
financial difficulty and that it didnt respond  when  he agreed to an early settlement figure but 
offered to repay  over a longer timescale.  Mr T thinks that the lender breached regulatory 
complaint processes.
From what  Ive seen, Mr T made one repayment then told Loans2Go that due to unforeseen 
circumstances he was no longer able to make the agreed loan repayments. He said he was 
willing to repay the capital  borrowed  but didnt want to pay any further interest  on his loan. 
Loans2Go wanted to know more about  his change in circumstances and asked him to 
provide some supporting evidence. Mr T is unhappy  that he was also asked to complete a 
new income and expenditure assessment. But I think it is perfectly fair and reasonable for a 
lender to want to know more about  why a borrower says they can no longer repay their loan 
as agreed. Mr T hadnt fully explained  to Loans2Go why he was unable  or unwilling to repay 
the interest due on his loan. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Loans2Go to 
ask Mr T to provide more information about his changed circumstances so that it could better 
assess an affordable repayment plan with him.
From what  I understand, Loans2Go offered Mr T an early settlement figure of just over £972 
and extended  this offer for six months,  rather than the usual  30 days. But Mr T and the 
lender werent  able to agree repayment  terms, so the offer expired. Mr T thinks  its unfair that 
Loans2Go hasnt  accepted repayment  terms that were similar  to those that hed agreed  with 
other creditors and he still wants to repay a reduced amount overall. But I dont think  its 
unreasonable for Loans2Go to suggest repayment  terms with Mr T that were different from 
his other  creditors, especially as Mr T had not fully explained why he needed to renegotiate 
the loan.  Loans2Go did agree that Mr T could reduce his monthly repayments,  but it 
expected Mr T to repay the whole amount owed.  As far as I can see, Mr T did not agree to 
this. 
Mr T thinks that Loans2Go failed to communicate or respond appropriately to his revised 
offer to settle,  made  after the lenders Final Response letter. Mr T emailed Loans2Go in 
December 2018  to disagree with what the lender had said in its Final  Response. He declined  
to accept the terms of the early settlement offer proposed by Loans2Go and proposed  a 
lower settlement figure,  taking into account his deductions for what he said were multiple 
breaches by Loans2Go,  withholding information  and stress  and anxiety. Mr T contacted  
Loans2Go again in January to complain  that hed not received a response to his revised  
offer. Loans2Go says it didnt receive  these  emails from Mr T. But in any event, I think  that 
Loans2Go had previously made Mr T aware  that it had given him its Final Response  and 
that he should raise  the matter with this Service if he wished to pursue his complaint.  
Loans2Go had set out the terms of an early  settlement offer,  which Mr T had declined  to 
accept. Loans2Go  may not have communicated with Mr T as well as it might have done after 
issuing its Final Response, but it had tried to reach agreement with Mr T and had issued its 
Final Response. Overall I dont think this amounted to treating Mr T unfairly or a material 
breach of any complaint procedure. I think that overall, Loans2Go has largely  responded 
sympathetically and positively towards  Mr T in trying to reach a fair and reasonable 
settlement with him.
Ref: DRN24022424I dont know whether Mr T and Loans2Go  have since reached agreement  on the amount or 
terms of any settlement. If the loan has not already been settled, Mr T and Loans2Go should 
agree a repayment plan for the loan over a fair and reasonable timescale that is affordable  
for Mr T. Loans2Go has a continuing obligation to treat Mr T positively and sympathetically. 
And if Mr T were to explain his current  circumstances more fully to Loans2Go, I think  its 
likely the parties would reach a mutually  acceptable repayment plan to settle  the loan 
account.
Taking the evidence  as a whole, I cant fairly conclude  that Loans2Go was wrong to provide 
the loan to Mr T. And I dont find that Loans2Go has acted unfairly towards Mr T in some 
other way.
Mr T has raised  a great many complaint points over the course of this matter and I 
acknowledge that he feels very strongly  about his complaint. If I have not referred to each 
point hes raised  its because I have focussed  on what  I consider to be the material  issues.  I 
am sorry that Mr T will be disappointed by my decision, but I would like to reassure  him that I 
have read and carefully considered everything that both he and Loans2Go have told us and 
I have reviewed all the evidence presented. Having done so, I do not uphold  Mr Ts 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against Loans 
2 Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2402242