K821x#15complaint
Miss I and Mr D complain that Caversham Finance Limited (trading as BrightHouse) 
unfairly dealt with their complaint about  faulty  furniture.
background
In February 2018 Miss I took out a hire purchase  agreement  with BrightHouse  for a 
two- seater  leather  sofa and a reclining leather chair  which  came from the same  range. 
At the same time Mr D took out a hire purchase agreement for the matching three-
seater sofa.
Miss I says that when  the furniture was delivered one of the sofas was damaged by 
the deliverymen. It was therefore agreed by the BrightHouse  store  to replace the 
furniture.
In March 2018 two new sofas and a recliner were delivered to Miss I and Mr Ds home.  But 
Miss I was unhappy  about the quality of the two-seater sofa and complained  to 
BrightHouse. An engineer was arranged to inspect the sofa. BrightHouse says no fault was 
found though Miss I was unhappy  about  a natural scar that appeared on the arm of the 
sofa. Miss I says the sofa was faulty and the back was loose.
BrightHouse eventually agreed to replace  all three pieces of furniture with items  from a 
different range. So a new three-seater and a two-seater sofa, together  with a chair, were  
then delivered  to Miss I and Mr D in August 2018.  Miss I says this time the three-seater 
sofa was defective.  She says she went to the store the following day to complain and that 
there followed a number of discussions with the staff there about what to do. She says as 
the store wasnt able to replace the leather  suite she and Mr D considered swapping to a 
fabric one, but as this wouldve  cost more they decided not to. Miss I says the store 
promised them a full refund and because of that she chose  a different suite  from a different 
shop.
BrightHouse says Miss I and Mr D made a complaint about the quality of the sofa in October  
2018 and it then arranged for another engineer to go and inspect it. This engineer found a 
fault with the sofa. BrightHouse offered to repair  the sofa but Miss I and Mr D declined as 
they wanted their money back having ordered a new suite from somewhere  else.
BrightHouse investigated  Miss I and Mr Ds complaint about the sofas. It said from the 
evidence it had seen  only one sofa had a fault and that an offer to replace all the sofas, or 
to repair  the faulty  sofa, had been made  but refused.  BrightHouse said it had fulfilled  its 
contractual obligations to Miss I and Mr D and so a full refund wasnt  reasonable.
BrightHouse said in November 2018  that Miss I and Mr D would  be able to terminate their 
agreements and return the furniture with nothing  further to pay. It also sent a payment of 
£50 as compensation to them for the distress and inconvenience caused by the issues  
theyd experienced.  
The sofas and chair were  taken back in November 2018, and the finance  agreements 
have been settled. But to date, no refund has been provided to Miss I and Mr D.
Miss I and Mr D complained to this service.  They said theyd been told they could have  a full 
refund by the store and then later offered a £700  refund by BrightHouse which they hadnt 
Ref: DRN23895872thought fair. They wanted all their money  back (their monthly payments), as the furniture 
had been defective and they hadnt  been  able to use it properly during the time theyd had 
it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss I and Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He 
said that BrightHouse hadnt confirmed the offer of the £700 refund  and had said the £50 
it had already paid in compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
Our investigator said he could only ask BrightHouse  to make  a refund if Miss I and Mr D 
had been deprived of all use of the goods.  And where a consumer has access and use of 
goods then payments should be made to reflect those things. The fault with the sofa was 
identified in October 2018,  and the items returned in November when the agreements were 
marked as settled. He said he thought  BrightHouse  had acted reasonably in terminating the 
agreements and didnt  recommend any refund should be made.
Miss I and Mr D disagreed with our investigators  view. They  said that BrightHouses 
version of events wasnt right. Miss I said if shed known she would lose all the money 
theyd spent on the sofas they wouldnt have ordered replacements  from another  supplier, 
and wouldve just kept the ones  from BrightHouse. Miss I also said she and Mr D had never 
received the £50 compensation  payment.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines. 
Miss I and Mr D said that theyd had a number of conversations with the BrightHouse  store  
but there werent  any notes available, nor were  there any records  of any telephone calls.  
Miss I and Mr D said they were told they would get a full refund of their payments  on a 
number of occasions. But BrightHouse said no such offer was made  by the store.
Where evidence is contradictory or missing then I must decide what  I think is the most  
likely thing to have happened.
It was agreed that the first set of furniture delivered to Miss I and Mr D in March  2018 was 
replaced that same  month.  BrightHouse said that usually if there  was a fault with an item 
then an engineer was sent to inspect  it, but instead on this occasion the store  arranged  to 
exchange the items. BrightHouse said the furniture  has since been supplied to another  
customer.
Miss I and Mr D were clear that there  was damage caused to one of the sofas when the 
furniture was delivered and thats why the exchange was agreed. I thought it was more  
likely than not that there was a good reason for the exchange to be agreed  so quickly and I 
thought it was likely one of the sofas  was damaged,
A new suite was delivered in March. Miss I said there was a fault with one of the sofas and 
so they complained. This time an engineer did go out and inspect it. Id seen a copy  of the 
report and that said no fault was found though  the customer was unhappy about the filling of 
the back cushions. It also said Miss I was unhappy  about the natural scar visible  on the 
sofas arm. I therefore  thought it was an act of goodwill  by the store  that led to the further 
replacement suite being provided in August 2018. I didnt think  the evidence showed the 
sofa wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
Ref: DRN23895873Miss I and Mr D said the delay that then arose  in replacing the furniture was due to the 
discussions they were  having  with the store about  how to replace the items as there wasnt  
another recliner chair  available.  They  said they were offered a re-conditioned one in the 
end but declined as theyd  wanted  new furniture.
In the end the store agreed  to change all the items for two sofas  and a recliner  from a 
different range. This was agreed as a switch of items on the original two hire purchase 
agreements. Miss I and Mr D said that when this furniture was delivered they were 
disappointed with the quality of the items  and that the three-seater sofa was faulty. They 
said they complained straight away to the store but BrightHouse said it wasnt aware  of a 
complaint until October 2018.
Although there werent any notes from the store on this point,  I thought  it was unlikely that 
Miss I and Mr D didnt  raise their complaint with the store first. Again there appeared to 
have been a lot of discussion about  options  with the store. And it appeared to be agreed 
that there was a discussion about swapping to another range. As Miss I had wanted a suite 
that was more expensive this wouldve meant the hire purchase agreements having  to be 
restarted. However, Miss I and Mr D then decided against this option as they couldnt afford 
the extra cost.
Miss I said they were  offered a full refund by the store  and that they then decided  to order  a 
new suite from another shop altogether. I thought it was unlikely that with a tight budget 
Miss I and Mr D wouldve  done that if theyd  thought  they wouldnt have got a refund of 
some sort. So I thought  some level of refund must have been  discussed by the store. 
However, I didnt know what was said exactly and Id seen that refunds of 100% and 50% 
(or £700)  were spoken about.
It was agreed that the engineer found  that the three-seater sofa was faulty when he 
inspected it in October.  It wasnt suggested  that this was due to wear and tear.
BrightHouse said it operated a rent-to-own service.  So customers  take out a hire purchase  
agreement for various items, paying  over the agreed  length of the contract. The item wasnt  
owned by the customer until the final payment was made. If the goods were  in good 
condition then you could  return them  and end the contract, and if this was accepted by 
BrightHouse then nothing  further needed to be paid. Alternatively, items could be returned 
and the agreement ended once 50% of the credit had been paid.
Miss I and Mr D took out hire purchase agreements for 104 weeks. Theyd made  payments 
under the agreement from February 2018 until the furniture was collected in November
2018. These payments had amounted to around £1300. Theyd  intended to buy the 
furniture and keep  it. Theyd wanted  items that would last. 
I could appreciate that after three different suites Miss I and Mr D wouldve been  very 
frustrated and distressed  that their furniture wasnt what  theyd expected. I didnt think it 
was surprising that theyd bought furniture from a different  place in the end. But it appeared 
from the evidence  that not all of the items that had been delivered  to them  were  in fact 
faulty.
So although  I accepted  that the sofa delivered  in February,  together  with the sofa delivered 
in August, were faulty I didnt think the other items  were. So I thought it was reasonable to 
find that Miss I and Mr D were able to use some  of the items - though I appreciated theyd 
Ref: DRN23895874wanted a suite  and wouldve been  disappointed  that everything in the matching set hadnt 
been as expected.
I thought it was fair for Miss I and Mr D to receive a portion of their repayments  back to 
reflect the fact that not all of the items were  of satisfactory quality, and also because  I 
thought the option of a refund was raised by the store.
Looking at all of the evidence, I thought it would be reasonable  for BrightHouse to repay a 
total amount of £500 to Miss I and Mr D as compensation  for the loss of the use of the suite 
and their distress and inconvenience trying  to get this matter  resolved. This was the 
equivalent to around one third of their payments and reflected that they had been unable  to 
enjoy one third of the suite  due to the faults together with the £50 compensation originally 
offered by BrightHouse which for a reason unknown had never  been received  by Miss I 
and Mr D.
So for the reasons given  I intended to partially  uphold Miss I and Mr Ds complaint.
Miss I and Mr D have  agreed with my view but they are disappointed about the amount of 
compensation. They feel it would be fair to receive  more of their payments back as they were  
without furniture for around seven weeks in the run up to Christmas and will have lost around 
£900 if they only get one third back. They  say the furniture was faulty and they felt fobbed  off 
by BrightHouse which was distressing.
BrightHouse has also disagreed. It says Miss I had part of the suite  (the two-seater sofa and 
recliner chair) under one hire purchase agreement and Mr D had the other  part (the three-
seater sofa) under another agreement  and that Im wrong to treat this as one set of furniture  
under one agreement. 
It says looking at the evidence its unclear which item was damaged in February 2018 but all 
the items  were replaced. And the items were replaced for a second time only as a gesture of 
goodwill in March  2018 as no faults  were found  when the furniture was inspected. 
Miss I raised her third complaint in August 2018 when discussions were had about 
alternative solutions. A complaint was then made in respect of the three seater  sofa in 
October 2018 and a fault was found  with that item.  A repair was offered but rejected as by 
then Miss I and Mr D had ordered  a new suite  from another store. BrightHouse says that 
Miss I had no right to reject  goods  under her agreement as they were  of satisfactory quality 
but Mr D did have a right as hed held the agreement for the faulty  sofa.
BrightHouse says it doesnt agree that a refund  was discussed with Miss I and Mr D. It says 
when the engineer inspected the three seater  sofa in October Miss I had told the engineer   
that she was refusing  any further assistance as shed ordered  a new suite  from elsewhere. 
And if a refund  had been discussed then it wouldnt make sense for BrightHouse to send out 
an engineer rather  than collect the furniture  and cancel the agreement.
BrightHouse also says that an offer was made in November 2018  to refund 50% of Miss Is 
agreements (not both) and this was rejected.
BrightHouse says the furniture has been rejected  because the customers  werent happy with 
the model of suite that theyd purchased. And its unfair to require it to provide both Miss I 
and Mr D with a partial refund for the whole suite.  BrightHouse says Miss I and Mr D had fair 
use of the furniture. 
Ref: DRN23895875In conclusion BrightHouse  says a fairer outcome would be for it to reimburse Mr D 50% of 
his payments which amounts to £275.68 with the additional £50 compensation making a total 
of £325.68 as it was him rather than Miss I who had the right to reject the goods.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I disagree with BrightHouse that Miss Is and Mr Ds hire purchase  agreements should be 
treated as two very separate things. I think in these circumstances that that approach is 
unfair and unreasonable. Together  they purchased a suite of furniture for them both to enjoy, 
and they treated them as one agreement. I also think BrightHouse  has treated these two 
agreements as one covering a set of furniture  as it has replaced the while  suite  each time 
there was a complaint rather than only individual items.
I accept from the evidence that there  isnt any evidence that the second suite delivered in 
March 2018 was faulty and Ive seen that it wasnt exchanged until August 2018. But Ive 
accepted what  Miss I and Mr D have said about this delay being  due to extended 
discussions with the store which including taking a different but more expensive  suite  which 
was then decided  against. From  the evidence Id seen the store  agreed  there  were  these 
ongoing talks about how to resolve Miss Is and Mr Ds complaint.
The third suite was delivered in August 2018.  BrightHouse said it didnt know  of a complaint 
about the quality of the furniture until October 2018.  However there are no records  or notes 
kept by the store and I think its more  likely  than not that Miss I and Mr D were in contact with 
the store. This is what had happened when theyd made their other complaints. I also think  
that it was between August and October that refunds were raised and discussed as Miss I 
has been very clear  about why they ordered from somewhere else. I dont accept 
BrightHouses view that this was buyers remorse.  
Ive seen that BrightHouse says a 50% refund was offered  to Miss I under her agreement 
only in November which was after the new suite had been ordered. It seems  more likely than 
not that Miss I has misunderstood the amount being  offered as refund thinking it was 50% of 
both of the agreements (or £700) rather than 50% of one agreement.  I appreciate Miss I 
says the offer was for £700 but I dont have any corroborating evidence  about  what was said 
and so Im accepting what BrightHouse has said.  
I also agree  with BrightHouse that Miss I and Mr D had use of some  of the suite  from March 
2018 until November  2018 when the agreements were terminated  and the furniture returned. 
And I think under the terms of the agreement that its fair and reasonable for them to pay for 
that use but to also take into account  their disappointment that from August 2018 they had a 
faulty three seater  sofa.  I think  they were also misled by the store that a refund of some  sort 
would be provided.
However, I dont agree  with Miss I and Mr D that either all of their payments or 50% of their 
joint payments should be repaid. I appreciate they didnt want to use the furniture but it 
wouldve been reasonable for them to do so and looking at the time period  and what was 
and wasnt faulty  I think they got more than 50% use from it.
Ref: DRN23895876Miss I says they spent  a seven week period without furniture in the run up to Christmas, but I 
dont think I can reasonably say that BrightHouse was at fault for that. The agreements were  
terminated in November 2018 and Miss I and Mr D had to wait for their new furniture that 
theyd ordered  to arrive. Ive also seen  Miss I had wanted the furniture gone  in October 
though I dont think Ive evidence there was any undue delay in its collection. 
So I havent changed my view. I think its fair for Miss I and Mr D to be reimbursed one third 
of their combined payments as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to 
them. This amounts  to £500. There is also the outstanding £50 compensation that 
BrightHouse hasnt paid.  I think its fair for that amount to be added to the £500 making £550 
in total.
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Miss I and Mr Ds complaint. I require 
Caversham Finance Limited  to pay Miss I and Mr D a total of £550  compensation for the lack 
of use of the suite and the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2389587