K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim they 
made under their buildings insurance.
background 
Mr and Mrs S complaint covers  events that took place over a number of years.  This 
background isnt intended  to set out every event in detail. Instead Ive given a summarised 
timeline of events.
In April 2016 Mr and Mrs S first made a claim to UKI in relation to cracking of their property. 
UKI appointed engineers to assess the claim and found there  was subsidence. Mr and Mrs S 
complained about the qualifications  of these  engineers as well as delays and service. UKI 
recognised it had made mistakes and offered Mr and Mrs S £400. And it agreed to instruct 
an independent engineer  to assess the claim. 
This complaint was previously considered by our service and a final decision was issued in 
September 2017 agreeing  UKIs offer of settlement was reasonable. So, I wont  be revisiting 
these events in detail or making further  findings on these issues.
The independent engineer was instructed  and completed an initial  report in November 2017.  
UKI reviewed this and said a cause for the cracking  hadnt been found. The engineer then 
recommended further monitoring.
UKI monitored the property through its subsidence  contractors  Company A  for the 
following year. And in November 2018 UKI changed its contractor from Company A to 
Company B  who continued to monitor the home.  Mr and Mrs S complained  to UKI about 
this. UKI apologised in December  2018, saying it recognised this change had led to 
frustration and delays.  And it awarded  them £100  in compensation.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service  around this time. They said UKIs 
actions had caused damage  to the property as well as a loss of value, and while it had 
accepted the claim it was refusing to proceed  with the necessary  works.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs S complained again, and UKI awarded an additional £200. Due to 
an error in processing  this, UKI awarded a further £25.
The independent engineer completed another report in September 2019. Following some 
back and forth UKI then agreed to settle  the claim in December 2019,  but said first the 
engineer would need to complete  a schedule of works to enable it to get quotes.  The 
engineer contacted Mr and Mrs S around this time to arrange a further appointment.
UKI said it would  also obtain  valuations of the property, and on Mr and Mrs S suggestion it 
said it would  consider whether a diminution of market value (DMV)  payment  would  be 
appropriate  a cash settlement equivalent to a reduction in the value of the property as a 
result of the damage. Mr and Mrs S have since put their property up for sale.  And UKI said,  
to prevent the claim potentially affecting the sale, it would agree to transfer the benefits of 
the claim to any new owner.
Our investigator looked into things, given so much  had happened she asked UKI if she could 
consider everything  that had happened up until January  2020   and it agreed.  The 
Ref: DRN29562622investigator then upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that UKI had acted fairly when 
deciding to settle the claim and its decisions to instruct the engineer  to carry out reports.
The investigator also said that much of the claim had progressed as it shouldve, but there  
was around a two month delay she believed UKI had caused in the time itd taken it to 
review a report. She also said UKI hadnt  kept Mr and Mrs S updated  as it shouldve. So 
given the impact on Mr and Mrs S she said UKI should pay them  £200  to recognise the 
unnecessary stress it had caused, and she asked  it to keep  them regularly updated in future.
UKI agreed  with the investigators assessment,  but Mr and Mrs S disagreed.  They said UKI 
had sufficient time to settle the claim and were unhappy this was still ongoing.  They also 
said its proposed settlement would cause them financial  loss, and theyd taken many days  
off work that were wasted due to missed appointments. 
Our investigator invited  Mr and Mrs S to provide any information to support what theyd said 
about days taken  off work but we didnt  receive anything. After considering these  points she 
didnt change her mind. So the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why.
When considering  a claim, ICOBS 8.1 says UKI must:
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3)not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4)settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ive considered these  specific  obligations when deciding  this case.
delays and communication
Mr and Mrs S claim is regarding subsidence.  Claims of this nature can take a long time. This 
is because insurers will need to investigate, establish a cause, determine what  steps need to 
be taken to repair, and then for the repairs to be carried out. So when looking at whats  
happened, Ive considered each of the steps UKI has taken to decide if this was reasonable.
The independent report in September 2017 did not establish a cause for cracking within  the 
property. And in their following communication with UKI the engineer agreed that further  site 
investigations were  necessary   this included further monitoring. Im satisfied this was a 
reasonable course of action, particularly as the advice came from the independent engineer.  
Following this Ive seen UKI was regularly speaking to Company A and the engineer  to 
ensure monitoring  was being completed  which it was.
Ref: DRN29562623When UKI changed its contractors its not disputed this was at short  notice and caused 
frustration to Mr and Mrs S. And while  UKI took steps to rearrange a cancelled  meeting with 
Company B and the engineer to avoid further  delay, its clear  to me that better 
communication around this wouldve prevented the impact this had on Mr and Mrs S.
UKI received the most recent independent  engineers report  in September  2019. Then  in 
December 2019  UKI decided  to settle the claim.  
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that UKI shouldve settled the claim already. While I 
recognise that UKI may have caused  delays in places,  and therefore not handled  this claim 
as promptly as it could  have, Im not persuaded that it was in a position  to settle the claim 
until it received the report from September 2019.  So at most  I think  UKI may have caused  
delays of up to two months across the life of the claim  that Ive considered.
Ive also considered UKIs obligation  to provide Mr and Mrs S with appropriate  information  on 
the claims progress. From  looking over the history of the claim, what Mr and Mrs S have 
said, Im satisfied they werent  kept informed as they shouldve  been. And I think this has 
contributed towards  the overall stress and frustration  theyve experienced. 
claim and settlement
UKI has now agreed to settle the claim  but has yet to provide a figure  as it has said its still 
obtaining quotes for the recommended schedule of works, as well as the value of Mr and 
Mrs S home. I dont think this is unreasonable as UKI will need to obtain these quotes 
before reaching  a fair settlement figure.
If Mr and Mrs S are unhappy  with the settlement figure once it is provided, they will need to 
raise this with as a new complaint with UKI.
overall
Taking into account whats happened  and what UKI has already paid since  our services  last 
decision (£325), our investigator recommended UKI pay an additional £200 to compensate  
Mr and Mrs S for the distress and inconvenience it caused  which it accepted.
Having considered this carefully,  taking into account everything thats happened,  Im 
satisfied this is a fair and reasonable  sum for the mistakes UKI has made.  So Im not going 
to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint.  And Im directing U K Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr and Mrs S £200 in addition  to the £325  it has already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2956262