K822xcomplaint
Miss D complains that Vauxhall  Finance plc trading as GMAC didnt  treat her fairly  during  a 
period of financial difficulty and unfairly  added charges in relation  to her conditional sale 
agreement. 
My references to GMAC include any agents it appointed to act on its behalf. 
background 
Miss D had a conditional  sale agreement for a car with GMAC. Significant arrears had grown 
so GMAC ended the agreement and then applied to the courts to take possession of the car 
in 2016. The court ordered that the car be returned  to GMAC, but it suspended that order on 
the basis that Miss D paid a total of £7,519.66,  as well as costs  of £465, by making  monthly 
payments of £300.  GMAC appointed  an agent  to collect those payments on its behalf.
In December 2017 Miss D asked  if she could have a payment break as she had experienced 
a death in the family which had caused  her financial difficulty. GMAC asked for further 
details in relation  to her specific circumstances, but because  it didnt  receive those details by 
the date it had asked, it rejected Miss Ds request. Miss D didnt think that was fair, so she 
raised a complaint. 
GMAC didnt uphold  Miss Ds complaint. It sympathised with her situation but said that the 
court order  had been suspended on the basis that she paid £300  per month. She hadnt  
always done that, and was in arrears, so it declined her request. Whilst it gave referral rights 
to this service, it said that it didnt  think wed have the power to consider the complaint 
because a County  Court Judgement (CCJ) had been made.
Miss D referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator said that GMAC had not acted 
unfairly by declining Miss Ds request for a payment break as the account was in arrears. 
And he noted that whilst  Miss D said she had fulfilled the court  order  because the total 
payments she made exceeded the amount the CCJ stated, he didnt think we should 
comment on this. Rather,  he said that Miss D should go back  to court to confirm  whether the 
order had been  met.  
In response, Miss D said that she wasnt complaining that a payment break  had not been 
accepted, but the manner in which her request  was dealt  with. She also said that she wasnt 
made aware  of any charges added to her account  after the court order,  until January 2018. 
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint, having  taken Miss Ds comments  into account. 
He said that he thought  GMAC had handled  Miss Ds request reasonably and fairly, and the 
charges which  had been applied to Miss Ds account after the court  order had been applied  
in line with the terms of her agreement,  and they were added  fairly because Miss D had not 
been able to pay £300 a month towards her agreement. He suggested that if Miss D had 
struggled to do this, she ought to have contacted the court  rather than GMAC. 
Miss D disputed this. She said that she thought that GMAC  was the appropriate body to 
raise her concerns over difficulty in making  payments. She said that one of the charges 
GMAC had added in October 2016  shouldnt have been applied  as when an agent  attended  
the car, she was able to demonstrate that she had already made the required payment, but it 
hadnt been passed on to GMAC  yet. She also said that a charge raised in January 2018 
Ref: DRN23709392shouldnt have been applied, and there were discrepancies  in the amounts shed paid and 
GMACs records. 
As Miss D didnt agree with our investigators findings, the case  was passed to me to make a 
decision. I issued  a provisional decision. In summary, I said;
our power to consider the case
I dont agree with GMACs assertion that we have no power to look into this case. Miss Ds 
complaint relates  to a regulated conditional sale agreement, which is one we have the power 
to look into complaints about.  
We can choose to dismiss  cases which have already been, or are currently  being  considered  
by a court. Whilst a court made a suspended order for the return of the goods,  Miss Ds 
complaint is principally about GMACs treatment of her during its collection of a debt in 
relation to the conditional sale agreement; thats not what the court  looked  into. Additionally, 
the courts order was suspended, so I find no reason that we shouldnt look into this case.
That being  said,  the courts judgment  granted GMAC possession of the goods, but it 
suspended that order on the basis that Miss D repaid the outstanding balance (plus costs)  at 
£300 per month.  It doesnt say that charges or interest shouldnt be added to the balance. 
Miss Ds agreement with GMAC allowed it to recover reasonable costs which  it incurred in 
the administration or recovery of the debt. So, I need to decide if its applied  charges fairly in 
the circumstances.
the position of the account  as things stand
GMAC told us most recently that the current outstanding balance of Miss Ds account  is 
£1,021.70. It has previously provided  the following calculation behind that figure;
Witness Statement and Suspended Return  
of Goods Balance    
=£7,519.66
Plus Court Costs awarded        
+£465.00
Total Suspended Return  of Goods Balance =£7984.66
Total Payments received after the Return  
of Goods Order was granted      -
£7789.54
Plus Agents  Costs incurred in July 2016        
+£269.54
Plus Agents  Costs incurred in October  
2016       
+£245.04
Plus Agents  Costs incurred in January 
2017       
+£312.00
Current Outstanding  Balance       
£1,021.17
So, other than the amounts the court asked Miss D to pay, GMAC appears to have  added  
three lots of agents  fees. Ill examine whether or not those  have been  applied fairly. I note 
that the overall amount  has increased by £0.53,  but Im satisfied thats as a result of an error 
in the above calculation, and that the total is £1,021.70. Im also satisfied that the charge the 
table refers to being  applied in January  2017 was actually applied  in January 2018. 
Ref: DRN23709393the fairness of agents fees GMAC applied
In considering the fairness of the charges GMAC applied Ive taken into account relevant 
laws, rules and guidance.  I believe the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)  which can 
be found in the FCA handbook  is particularly relevant  here. CONC 7.7.5 says that 
businesses must not impose charges on customers in arrears unless the charges  are no 
higher than necessary to cover  the reasonable cost to the business. Ive applied that 
principle  one which GMAC  is required to follow, in testing the fairness  of the charges it 
applied.
From the payment history Ive been  given, it seems clear that Miss D didnt always make the 
payments she was required to. I think she accepts that she missed  payments which  resulted  
in GMAC adding a fee for a collection agent  it sent out in July 2016, and from what  she said 
she doesnt dispute the fairness of this charge.  For the sake  of clarity though, from the 
evidence Ive seen  it appears that Miss D was a number of payments  behind schedule and 
had not responded to correspondence  GMAC had sent her chasing payment.  So, I think it 
was reasonable  at that point for GMAC to send a field agent to Miss D and it follows  that I 
also think it was reasonable for it to recover the cost associated with this.
Miss D does, however,  dispute the fairness  of the charges in respect of agents fees which 
GMAC added in October 2016  and January 2018. Ill deal with those in turn. 
GMAC has an obligation to act positively and sympathetically towards  customers  
experiencing financial difficulty. In the circumstances of this case, Id have  expected GMAC 
to take steps to ensure  that Miss Ds outstanding debt with it would not increase, unless it 
was as a result of GMAC recovering reasonable costs it incurred. 
GMAC added a charge  of £245.04 to Miss Ds outstanding debt with it in October 2016 in 
respect of a cost it incurred for sending an agent to Miss D to chase  payment.  Miss D says 
that shed made payments to GMACs agents but it hadnt reached GMAC. 
Ive reviewed GMACs system notes as well as Miss Ds payment history.  A note of 
13 October 2016 shows that GMAC instructed  an agent because it believed Miss D was 
£700 behind  the £300 per month schedule the court had set. 
However, a subsequent note of 18 October  2016 shows contact from Miss D regarding  the 
payments shed been making. It seems  that GMAC accepted that Miss D had made a 
number of payments  to GMACs  agents which had not yet been  passed to GMAC. In its 
notes GMAC appears to accept that Miss D was not as far behind the payment schedule as 
it had thought  around £130  rather than £700. However, by my calculations, and whats 
said on the system notes,  it seems  that Miss D had paid GMAC a total of £2,669.54, of the 
£2,700 required  by 18 October  2016,  making her around £30 behind schedule.
So, it seems  that whilst Miss D was behind the payment schedule   whether £30 or £130 - 
she was not significantly  behind the schedule,  as GMAC believed. It seems to me that 
GMACs decision to send  a field agent  to Miss D was as a result of poor communication 
between it and its agent regarding payment. In reality, Miss D had made all but around £30 
of the payments she was required to by the time an agent was set to her. 
Given the wider circumstances of Miss Ds overall  financial position,  sending out an agent  
and adding a cost of £245.04 doesnt  seem proportionate or fair taking into account that 
GMAC clearly  didnt  have  a full picture  of the payments which  had been made to date. 
Ref: DRN23709394Taking proportionate  action  is another  requirement  of GMAC under CONC (7.3.14). I dont 
know whether GMAC wouldve taken the same  steps if it had been aware of the true picture, 
but in any case,  theres no indication from its notes that GMAC tried to contact Miss D (or its 
agent) by telephone, for example, to check whether  payments had been made. I think that 
wouldve been a more proportionate action to take, so overall  I dont think it was fair for 
GMAC to add this charge  to the Miss Ds balance.
Turning to the agent fee which GMAC added in January  2018,  this came about  because 
Miss D asked for a payment holiday on 21 December 2017  due to the unfortunate death  of 
her father. GMACs notes  suggest  that it told Miss D to contact its agent to explain details of 
why she was unable  to make payments, which she did. GMACs notes show  that its agent 
sent a letter  dated 22 December 2017  to Miss D, five days later on 27 December 2017. The 
letter asked for evidence of the death  of Miss Ds father by no later than 5 January 2018.
Miss D says she didnt receive  that letter until 8 January 2018. I find this plausible given the 
possible postal delays  which happen during the festive period. Taking  this into account,  and 
given that the information  requested  seemed  straightforward I think its something GMACs 
agent couldve asked  for by telephone  or by email. Notes show that because GMAC didnt 
receive the evidence  it had requested  by the deadline it set, and because  it believed the 
account was more than £600 behind the payment schedule with the last payment being  
received in October 2017 (although its payment history shows  that a payment was made in 
November 2017), it instructed an agent to visit Miss D.
Miss D subsequently provided GMAC with the death  certificate  it had asked for, and it 
declined her payment  holiday on account  that her father had died in July 2017. It said that it 
thought Miss D had ample opportunity to arrange  her finances. It added a charge of £312.00 
in respect of costs of the agents fee. Miss D has shown that she made a payment of £600 
on 15 January 2018, which GMAC seems  to have credited to her account on 
29 January 2018.
Im satisfied that if GMAC had communicated  more effectively with Miss D and set 
reasonable deadlines, its likely she wouldve made the required payment without the need 
for a field agent  to be sent to her. Again, I think that sending  a field agent  to Miss D on this 
occasion was premature  and that passing  the associated cost on to her is not reasonable.
GMACs treatment of Miss D.
Overall I dont think that GMAC handled Miss Ds request for a payment holiday 
appropriately. Not just for the reasons explained  above, but I also dont think that GMAC fully 
considered the circumstances under  which Miss D asked  for a payment holiday. Ive seen 
emails from Miss D to GMAC which explained that whilst her father died in July 2017  he was 
yet to be buried  abroad and the associated costs could not have  been  predicted. I think  
GMAC couldve considered Miss Ds circumstances more carefully  before  declining her 
request. I also find that GMACs rationale for rejecting her request that shed had ample  
time to arrange her finances  unreasonable given  that she explained the unpredictability of 
the situation. 
Given all of the above, overall  Im not satisfied  that GMAC has treated Miss D fairly. I find 
that on both the occasions that Miss D raised  issue with agents  fees,  GMAC was premature 
in appointing an agent and incurring costs. I also find that GMAC has not treated  Miss D as 
positively and sympathetically as Id have  expected  it to. As a result, I think its caused 
Ref: DRN23709395Miss D unnecessary trouble and upset. By way of an apology for this, I think  GMAC should 
pay Miss D £100 compensation. 
Miss D didnt respond, but GMAC said it had nothing  further  to add. The case was passed 
back to me to make my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has responded with any further evidence or comments  in relation  to 
the case, I find no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. As a result,  for the reasons explained above, I now make those conclusions  final,  
as set out below.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Vauxhall Finance  plc trading as GMAC to;
-Remove the agents fees it applied to Miss Ds balance in October 2016 and 
January 2018  totalling £557.04,  leaving an outstanding balance  of £464.13; and
-Pay Miss D £100  compensation  for the unnecessary trouble and upset she was 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 January 2021.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2370939