K820x#14complaint
Mr R instructed The Claims Guys Limited  (TCG)  to deal with a claim for potentially mis-sold 
PPI.
background
TCG made the claim for Mr R in 2016  and this was rejected  by the PPI provider. In late 2018 
the PPI provider contacted Mr R and told him they were reviewing his claim. After  a 
conversation with Mr R the PPI provider changed  their decision. In January 2019  the claim 
was successful and Mr R was awarded  compensation.
Mr R has complained that TCG are charging a fee on the compensation he was awarded. 
He believes his claim was closed with TCG  in 2016, and they had no involvement in the 
claim being successful  in 2018/19.  Hes also unhappy how TCG have chased for their fee.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found TCG had acted  reasonably.  The PPI provider had contacted  Mr R, 
instead of contacting TCG, and she felt TCG  couldnt be held responsible for this. As TCG  
had prepared and submitted the claim for Mr R, she felt their fees were due. TCG have 
offered to reduce their fees by 50% as a goodwill gesture due to the time that has passed. 
The investigator felt this was reasonable and didnt  think they should do any more.  
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and asked  for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. He thinks his claim  shouldve  been closed by TCG in 2016,  and the fact the PPI 
provider contacted him and not TCG  is significant. He doesnt believe that, after so long,  
TCG are entitled to any fee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Even though  Mr R had been mis-sold  PPI, his claim was originally rejected by the PPI 
provider. Had this not happened, he wouldve received his award in 2016 and TCG wouldve 
charged their fees at that point. But the PPI provider didnt assess the claim correctly in 
2016, and it wasnt  until 2019 that they awarded Mr R compensation. This mistake by the 
PPI provider doesnt alter what  shouldve happened - as Mr R received the compensation he 
shouldve been  given in 2016, so TCG should  be able to charge  the fee they shouldve been 
able to charge  in 2016.
TCG were  acting as Mr Rs representative in his claim. Because of this he shouldnt  have 
been contacted by the PPI provider directly  where  it is clear that a representative is acting, 
they should have dealt  with the representative.
Ref: DRN26293722I appreciate that, when  he was contacted by the PPI provider, Mr R may not have 
remembered this claim was being dealt with by TCG. But this doesnt  mean  that the PPI 
provider shouldve contacted him - the PPI provider knew  that TCG were still involved,  
otherwise they wouldnt  have  told TCG  about  the successful claim. The PPI providers 
actions also dont mean that TCG shouldnt be allowed to charge their fees.
TCG charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work  done on any unsuccessful  claims would be 
done for free. Where  a claim  was successful, TCG s fee may be more  or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement. 
Just because TCGs fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Mr R doesnt 
make their fee unjustified.
TCG have offered  to reduce their fee by 50%,  because the PPI provider took so long to 
correctly assess Mr Rs claim. I think this is a reasonable offer and I dont think  they should  
do anything more.
Mr R has also complained  about  TCGs attempts to recover their fees. Mr R disputed the 
fees, and hasnt paid them. Because of this, I accept hed find any attempts to collect the fee 
unwanted and unacceptable. But, as Ive said, TCG were entitled to charge their fees and 
were entitled  to attempt to collect  them.
Ive seen TCG attempted to contact  Mr R on a number of occasions,  and not all of these 
contacts were successful. I dont think this was excessive in the circumstances  its 
reasonable for TCG to continue to try and speak  to Mr R when theyve  not been able to do 
so.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint. I wont  be asking The 
Claims Guys Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2629372