K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about four high cost short term loans Satsuma provided to Mr B between 
June 2016 and May 2017. This is a summary of Mr Bs lending  history from Satsuma.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 07/06/2016 01/10/2016 200
2 01/02/2017 10/03/2017 400
3 24/03/2017 02/05/2017 100
4 08/05/2017 - 500
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint in part and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given. Satsuma disagreed so the complaint been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN25977872I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
Satsuma needed  to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. So I dont think  Satsuma was 
wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr B.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Satsumas  lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached at loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Satsuma  ought to have realised  Mr B was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr B had been  indebted to Satsuma for eight months. And he took 
out loan 4 just days  after settling loan 3. So Satsuma ought to have realised  it was 
more likely than not Mr B was at this stage having to borrow  further to cover  the hole 
repaying his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Bs indebtedness  
was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Bs first loan was for £200  and loan 4 was for £500.  At this point Satsuma ought 
to have known  that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Satsuma.  Loan  4 was 
taken out 11 months after Mr Bs first. And it was for a much larger  amount.  Mr B had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Satsuma over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Satsuma provided  loan 4 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN25977873giving  this loan was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ive considered carefully Satsumas comments in response to the adjudicators  view.  It said 
that we only appear  to be considering the number of loans obtained, not the customers 
individual circumstances,  and it doesnt  feel it can be concluded that Mr B was reliant  on its 
lending just from his sustained borrowing.  
But I would remind Satsuma that CONC states  a firm must consider  the customers ability  to 
make repayments without having to borrow to do so  not just the pounds  and pence  
affordability of each loan.  And by loan 4 I think Mr Bs borrowing history suggested there was 
a risk he was borrowing  to repay. I say this based on the time between settling loans 2 and 3 
and taking out loans 3 and 4 and the significant increase in the value of loan 4. 
So Ive reached  my decision not just, as Satsuma suggests, by considering the number of 
loans but based on the individual  circumstances of Mr Bs relationship  with Satsuma. I think 
it should have  better  considered the possible impact of repeat lending to him when it agreed 
to loan 4. At this stage it seems to me it would have  been clear that it was most  likely Mr B 
was having to borrow more to make  up for the shortfall in his finances  that repaying  previous 
loans had caused.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4, and Satsuma should  put things right. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
if it chooses, apply  the refund to any outstanding capital balance on loan 4 that it 
wrote off before paying any remaining balance (if there is any) to Mr B**; and
any information recorded about  loan 4 is adverse, so the entry  about  loan 4 should 
be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Satsuma intends to apply the 
refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance it wrote off, it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after taking  the above steps  there would  still have been capital balance due, Satsuma must not 
re-activate this debt and attempt to collect it from Mr B given his financial  status in September  2017.
Ref: DRN25977874my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans)  should  pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2597787