K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mr S.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2010.  Capital One sold Mr S the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr S and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Capital One made Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. The online 
process required him to check  a box if he wished to take PPI. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI as being  particularly suitable  for Mr Ss 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. 
I dont think the information  Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI was as clear as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in his circumstances,  full information about costs 
and benefits would have affected whether  he took the PPI. He had only limited  
amount of savings  and entitlement to employer sick pay, and the PPI is likely to have 
appeared potentially useful. And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because Capital  One didnt tell 
Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN20507432my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2050743