K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the information  Barclays Bank UK PLC reported  to credit 
reference agencies  about their mortgage  current account (MCA).  
background
Mr and Mrs C took out this Offset mortgage  product in 2007 with Woolwich (now  Barclays). 
The February 2007 mortgage offer notes  the mortgage is £598,051 and an MCA will be 
opened. The offer says A Current  Account Reserve  facility is available  which can be used to 
draw down additional borrowing. The Current Account Reserve is a secured overdraft on a 
Woolwich Current Account and The maximum Current  Account Reserve  available  is 
£20,000.00.
In July 2007 Mr and Mrs C transferred £20,042 out of the MCA, leaving it overdrawn by that 
amount. There were then two charges debited which took the overdrawn balance to 
£20,141.
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs C in January  2009 to say the MCA was over its limit. The letter  
said the limit was now £19,900 and the balance was £20,141, so it was over the limit by 
£241. 
A payment of £241  was credited to Mr and Mrs Cs main mortgage account  (not the MCA) 
on 30 January 2009.
Barclays wrote again  to Mr and Mrs C in February  2009 to say the MCA was still over its 
limit. The letter said the balance was £20,141 and it was over the limit by £241.  
Statements would have been  issued  over the next few years, but the first we have  on file is a 
monthly statement  from November 2012.
In February 2016  Barclays wrote  to Mr and Mrs C about their MCA and in response to that 
Mr C called Barclays on 9 March 2016.  The note of that call says MCA fully explained and 
rebalancing fully understood.  Current limit £19,900.00, balance  £20,141.00 (customer will 
pay in funds to bring  back into limit).
Nothing further happened until Mr C called again  on 5 April 2017 where it seems there was a 
similar conversation.  This time however Mr and Mrs C took action, with £500 being  credited 
to the MCA on 6 April 2017. 
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Barclays in January 2019 as Mr C had been  turned  down  for 
credit elsewhere due to the information recorded on his credit file about the MCA. Barclays  
didnt uphold  the complaint and so Mr and Mrs C referred it to this service. 
After our investigator asked Barclays for various items of information Barclays  found the 
£241 credit  on the mortgage statement from 2009.  It said whilst it didnt think it had done  
anything wrong  as there was no way to know what happened in 2009, it could see 
Mr and Mrs C intended to repay the £241 and so offered to cleanse their credit  files of the 
information.
Our investigator thought this was fair, but also thought Barclays should  pay £500 
compensation for the impact  on Mr and Mrs C.
Ref: DRN29656892Barclays said it thought  £500 was too much and it was willing  to pay £300. Mr and Mrs C 
didnt agree with either amount, suggesting our investigator run it past our chief  executive  
(and chief ombudsman) for her input on a fair amount. As an agreement couldnt be reached 
its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point 
its not because  Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  
Mr and Mrs C have said that this service will only  deter Financial Institutions treating their 
customers poorly and with disrespect, if the amount of compensation awarded, reflects the 
Banks [sic] lack of professionalism and honesty in dealing with and resolving a very simple  
matter from the outset.
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. Were  not the regulator; weve no 
power to fine or punish businesses, and our awards  arent punitive. We look at the facts of 
each case and determine what a fair level of compensation,  if any, should be for that 
individual complaint. The rules of the ombudsman scheme empower me to make an 
appropriate award of compensation on individual cases.
Mr and Mrs C have said that they raised  the matter with Barclays  in January 2019 and 
requested urgent attention. They say Barclays refused to deal with it and hid behind its 
complaints process,  taking almost eleven  weeks to refer Mr and Mrs C to this service.
I can see from the call notes that Mr C raised the complaint on 28 January 2019, and I can 
see that Barclays issued  its final response  letter to Mr and Mrs C on 5 February 2019  just 
eight days later. That letter gave Mr and Mrs C referral rights  to this service,  so I dont agree 
that Barclays took almost  eleven weeks to respond  to the complaint and refer Mr and Mrs C 
to us. Mr and Mrs C chose  to continue to correspond with Barclays about the outcome of the 
complaint and I cant hold Barclays liable for that decision. Mr and Mrs C could have referred 
their complaint to us immediately after they received the 5 February  letter.
In any event, Barclays has eight  weeks to respond to complaints under current  legislation. It 
also doesnt have  to deal with matters  face to face or pass  them to a person  of authority as 
Mr and Mrs C requested.  There was no requirement  on Barclays  to deal with this matter  
outside its standard complaints handling  function, and that function  allows  it the time to 
investigate and respond to a complaint.  The Bank is free to choose  who can deal with that 
complaint and by what means. 
Mr and Mrs C were on notice about their overdrawn balance in January 2009.  They  made a 
payment in January 2009 (I assume  to cover this amount) but unfortunately that payment 
Ref: DRN29656893went onto their main mortgage  account,  not the MCA. Due to the passage of time we have 
no way of knowing what happened at that time,  so I cant say whether that was down to an 
error by Barclays or an error by Mr and Mrs C. What we do know is that a further letter was 
sent in February  2009 but Mr and Mrs C didnt seem  to query  at the time that theyd already 
made the payment. It may be they believed the payment and letter had crossed, but I would 
have expected it would have put some doubt  in their mind  such  that when they received the 
regular statements they would have checked them carefully.
We havent got copies of the statements from that time, but we have got them  from 
November 2012  onwards.  Every month  Mr and Mrs C were  sent a statement and whilst they 
could have been clearer as I agree they say the £241 is available (rather than the opposite),  
I consider they were  clear enough  to have put Mr and Mrs C on notice there  was still a 
problem. I say this because the statements say:
Reserve (overdraft) limit 19,900.00
Amount used 20,141.00
Mr C said I have secured a legal opinion on the matter and it has been confirmed that the 
275 statements are factually incorrect and it is not the responsibility of the customer  to 
personally check the arithmetic on the statement.  Whilst I wouldnt expect a customer to 
undertake complex  arithmetic, these  two lines are together with one saying the overdraft limit 
is £19,900 and directly below that Mr and Mrs C were overdrawn by £20,141.  
Mr C was told in a phone call on 9 March 2016  that he and Mrs C were over the limit; he said 
hed pay the funds in to cover that but didnt. A consumer  has a duty to mitigate their position 
and had Mr and Mrs C made the shortfall payment in March 2016 then it seems the other 
lending wouldnt have  been turned down in January 2019 as Mr Cs broker said it was 
declined because adverse information was recorded in the two years  preceding  that enquiry. 
She said that if the adverse information had been over two years before the application 
(which it would have  been if Mr and Mrs C had made the payment in March  2016) then that 
would be acceptable  to the lender.
Our investigator felt £500 compensation was fair, whereas Barclays  said £300 was more  
appropriate. Mr and Mrs C have said that if Barclays  do not make a sensible offer of 
compensation in this matter, we will have no option, other than to seek redress through the 
courts. We have been advised that if we are awarded a sum through  court  action that is 
above any compensation figure offered by Barclays, we will also have a good  chance of 
recovering a % of our Court Cost.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied that £500  compensation is fair. I say this because  
matters did become protracted and could have been resolved sooner (but not in 
January/February 2019 as Mr and Mrs C have said). Im satisfied  Barclays  did nothing wrong 
in not getting matters  resolved in time for the lending  to go through   and Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs C didnt mitigate  their position  in March 2016 when they had the opportunity  to 
do so - so Im not awarding Mr and Mrs C anything relating  to the losses they say they 
incurred there.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to cleanse  the information  
relating to the £241 on Mr and Mrs Cs credit files (if its not already done  so) and pay them 
£500 compensation. I make other order  or award.
Ref: DRN29656894My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject 
my decision  before 19 March 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2965689