K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland plc wont refund payments which  he says were  made  
without his authority  from his Halifax account.  Halifax is a Bank of Scotland plc brand, and Ill 
refer to the bank  as Halifax.  
background 
Mr Ks complaint is primarily about four payments  made  from his Halifax account  on a single 
day in May 2017.  Hes also said that there  were transfers between accounts,  and hes 
unhappy with the service  Halifax provided. 
The transfers from Mr Ks account  totalled  £425  made up of payments of £10, £75, £100 
and £240. He contacted  the bank by email and by telephone on the same day to say that he 
thought his account had been compromised  and to try to protect  it. 
Mr K has explained that, before the transfers  took place, hed received several calls from 
individuals claiming to be from Halifax and from Panda Loans. The callers appeared to have 
information about Mr K and his accounts. 
The bank said that the first two payments  for £10 and £75  were  made  using a device  Mr 
K had used previously. They were also subject to an enhanced authentication process, 
meaning whoever  was making them would have needed to input a four-digit code sent to Mr 
K. That process is used  when a new payee  is set up on an account.  Halifax believes Mr K 
made these  payments. 
The banks records show that the larger two payments were made using telephone banking. 
There was no need for enhanced security because  the payees  were, by that time, treated as 
existing payees  on the account.  
Halifax accepted  that Mr K had been the victim of a scam  in that he was persuaded either  
to make payments  or to provide enough information  to allow  someone  else to access his 
account. Because of this, it sought  to recover money  from the recipient accounts, and was 
able to recover £183.25, which it returned  to Mr K. But it couldnt recover  the balance. It also 
paid Mr K a further  £75, recognising that it hadnt  handled his concerns  as well as it might  
have done. 
Mr K didnt think this went far enough and referred  the matter  to this service,  where one of 
our adjudicators considered it. She concluded, in summary:
Mr K had probably been tricked into making the first two payments himself. 
He had however contacted the bank about  his concerns in time for it to stop the second  
payment (of £10).  
It was likely that the third and fourth  payments were made  by someone other than Mr K, 
and without his authority.  
The adjudicator said that the bank should  refund all but the first payment of £75, taking into 
account the money Halifax had already refunded.  The bank agreed, and offered to pay Mr K 
a further £166.75 to resolve his complaint. 
Ref: DRN25704502Mr K didnt accept the banks offer.  However,  and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
complaint  as the final stage in our process.            
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is, primarily, to resolve complaints.  In order to do that, I must identify what the 
complaint and  significantly  in this case  what elements of a complaint are and are not in 
dispute. As Ive indicated,  Mr Ks complaint centres on the four payments made  from his 
account. But Halifax has agreed to refund three of those, so I dont need to consider those in 
any great detail. I will however consider the first payment of £75. 
The adjudicator found that the first payment  was made before Mr K contacted  the bank, by 
email, about his concerns for the security of his account. Her rationale  for recommending a 
refund of the second payment was that Halifax could have reacted more quickly to Mr Ks 
email. But that didnt apply to the first payment, which was made before he sent the email. 
I must therefore consider whether Mr K made the first payment himself. The evidence 
indicates that it was made from Mr Ks computer, but he says he hadnt given anyone else 
access to it. It was, as Ive explained,  the subject of enhanced security, and Mr K 
acknowledges that he received a four-digit authentication code from Halifax.  Given also what 
Mr K has said about the telephone calls hed received before the payments were made (and 
which I dont believe were  from Halifax or Panda loans), I think it likely that he was 
persuaded to make  the first payment,  and did so. 
As Ive said,  I dont need to make any findings  about the subsequent payments, but I think it 
likely that Mr K made the £10 payment as well and that the third and fourth payments were 
made without his authority by individuals who had gathered enough information from him or 
elsewhere to enable them to make telephone transfers. 
Mr K has referred to other  internal transfers as well. But they were made between his 
accounts, and so didnt result  in any loss. Ive also considered  the payment of £75 that 
Halifax made in recognition of its handling  of the complaint. I agree that this is fair 
compensation in the circumstances. 
In conclusion, therefore, I agree that the banks offer to pay Mr K a further £166.75 is a fair 
resolution of Mr Ks complaint. I shall however make a formal award along those lines,  so 
that Mr K can enforce it  should he wish to accept  my award and should Halifax  not comply 
with it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ks complaint, Bank of Scotland plc should 
reimburse Mr K with £166.75.  Payment should be backdated to 26 May 2017 so that 
appropriate adjustments are made  to any charges and interest that have  arisen. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my 
decision before  18 October 2019.
Ref: DRN25704503Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2570450