K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Miss M says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 1999 Miss M took out a PPI policy in connection with her credit card. Miss M says she 
took out PPI by phone   MBNA says it was a postal  sale. Ill address this discrepancy below. 
The policy provided  protection for Miss Ms card payments in the event she couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay out a monthly benefit 
of 3% of the outstanding card balance  and it would do so for up to 12 months per claim. It 
cost 68 pence  for every  £100 Miss M owed on the card and the payments did attract interest.
At the time of the sale Miss M was employed and she said she wasnt  entitled to enhanced 
sick pay. She said she had no other means  she couldve used to make her repayments and 
she was in good health at the time.
MBNAs records show both the PPI and the credit  card account  ended in 2006.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Miss M chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Miss M disagrees,  the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Miss Ms case.
Having done so, while I know this will be a disappointment for Miss M, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint.  My reasons  are set out below.
did Miss M have a choice about PPI?  
I think MBNA made it clear  that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out.
But I can understand why she cant remember this - it was after all something which 
happened many  years ago.
I said above that Miss M has indicated she took out PPI over the phone. But MBNA has 
provided a copy of Miss Ms credit card application.  And this shows it was in fact a postal  
sale  Miss M applied for both the credit card and the PPI at the same  time by completing  an 
application. Ms M appears  to have responded to a direct mailing.
Ref: DRN25574392Looking at this application, I can see Miss M completed some basic details about her 
employment and income after which there is a separate section about  PPI titled  Safeguard 
your payments. After  a brief description  of what PPI is Miss M was presented with two 
equally prominent boxes  she could tick  Yes to take out PPI or No to decline it. Miss M 
ticked the Yes box.
By the way the application was set out, and by having to tick a box to take out the policy   
Im also mindful that there was no interaction  with a member of MBNA staff - Im not 
persuaded Miss M wouldve been under the impression  that she had to take out PPI.
So overall, Im satisfied Miss M chose to take out PPI and she did so without undue pressure.
the information   
Because this was a sale by postal application, there  was no opportunity  for MBNA  to assess  
Miss Ms need for cover.  So, this wasnt an advised sale.  This means  MBNA didnt have to 
ensure PPI was right or suitable for Miss M. But it did have to give her enough  clear  and 
timely information about the policy so she could make an informed decision  about it.
While the application  gave a brief outline  of the nature of the cover,  it didnt refer Miss M to 
where she could  find out more. I think its likely  there was more  information provided about  it, 
but I dont know  exactly what information  this contained. So, based on what  Ive seen Im not 
persuaded the information MBNA gave Miss M about the PPI was as clear as it shouldve  
been  in particular the evidence doesnt  tell me that MBNA drew Miss Ms attention  to the 
significant exclusions on and limits to the cover or how the premiums  would attract  interest 
and would be payable  in the event  of a claim.
But as I found  above, Miss M chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances  at the time it doesnt appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasnt  affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions; and Miss M didnt have  any substantive  other means  she could rely on - so it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So, I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Miss M off 
taking out the cover.  
conclusion
While MBNA  might  not have done  everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when 
it sold Miss M PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think shed have still gone ahead 
and taken out PPI had MBNA done anything more. This means I dont think  Miss M has lost 
out as a result of having PPI, so MBNA  doesnt  have to do anything  to put things right.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said - including  what shes  said about believing the 
policy was property protection insurance.  But these points dont change my decision. Im not 
persuaded MBNA misrepresented the nature of the cover to the extent that its reasonable 
for Miss M to have believed the policy was something to do with property  insurance.  While 
Ive concluded  MBNA  didnt do all that it should have done, in my view the credit card 
application did provide a clear outline  of the type of cover provided i.e. protection for 
Miss Ms card payments in the event of accident,  sickness or unemployment.
Ref: DRN25574393In closing I can see that Miss M has referred to being out of work during which  time she 
struggled to make her card repayments. Miss M hasnt elaborated on when this happened.  
But she might  want to consider approaching the insurance provider of the policy to see if its 
possible to make a retrospective  claim on it - albeit I cannot say how successful this might 
be given the length of time thats  now passed.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2557439