K821x#15complaint
Miss D says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (Provident) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about eight home collected  credit  loans  that Provident  provided to Miss D 
from March 2010  onwards.  Miss Ds last loan was provided in May 2013.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ds complaint about  loans five to eight. So he thought that        
Miss D shouldnt have  been  provided  with them loans. Provident  didnt agree with our 
adjudicator. So the complaint was passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible and unaffordable lending - including  all the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Providents  lending history with Miss D, I think that 
Provident should reasonably have seen that Miss D was unlikely to have been able to make 
her loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan five. 
Ref: DRN26205752I say this because  by the time of loan five, Miss D was provided with a fifth loan within a 
relatively short period  of time. Equally this one was for substantially more  than what she was 
lent previously. In my view, Miss D now owing Provident an increased amount of money, 
after having  already been indebted to it for an extended period, was in itself a clear  
demonstration of Miss Ds inability to settle her loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Provident continued providing  expensive  loans for significant amounts after this. And Miss D 
ended up paying  large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  an increasing  debt to 
Provident over an extended period until she was no longer in a position to. At which  point 
Provident sold an outstanding debt on to a third party  debt purchaser.
Ive seen what Provident has said about  the regulators high cost credit  review. But it hasnt  
provided anything  to indicate  that it carried out reasonable  and proportionate checks before 
providing loans  five to eight.  Instead it seems to me that the checks it carried  out for these 
loans were much the same as the ones it carried out previously. As Providents checks  didnt 
evolve and take account of Miss Ds actual financial position, I dont think they were  
reasonable or proportionate and Providents  argument hasnt persuaded me that Miss Ds 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
I think that Miss D lost out because Provident provided these loans because they had the 
effect of unfairly  prolonging Miss Ds indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit  
intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time. So Im upholding Miss Ds 
complaint about  loans  five to eight and Provident should put things right.
putting things right  what Provident  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss D paid on loans five to seven;
the debt Provident sold on for loan eight included interest and charges that Miss D 
shouldnt have  to pay. So Quick Quid should either contact the third party  debt 
purchaser and pay it an amount  to reduce whats due to the amount of what was 
borrowed, or buy back the debt from the third party and do this. Either way Provident  
needs to ensure that Miss D paid, or pays, no more in total than the amount she was 
lent. If Miss D has paid more than what she was lent, Provident  needs to refund 
these extra overpayments that Miss D paid;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest,  charges and 
overpayments from the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
if an outstanding  balance on loan eight remains after all adjustments have been 
made, Provident can deduct  this from the compensation that it now needs to pay 
Miss D.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident  to take off tax from this interest. Provident 
must give Miss D a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN26205753my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ds complaint. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited should pay Miss D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2620575