K820x#14complaint
Ms J says that TransUnion International UK Limited (TransUnion)  previously Callcredit  
wrongly financially  associated her with someone else on her credit  file and this has 
adversely impacted her ability to get credit.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in December 2019 explaining why I intended  to 
increase the compensation amount in this case.  A copy of my provisional decision  is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both Ms J and TransUnion to provide me with any further comments  and/or evidence  
they wanted me to consider. Ms J confirmed that she had nothing  further to add and 
intended to accept the proposed compensation. TransUnion provided  further  submissions 
which Ive considered below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out already,  Ms J accepted the proposed compensation set out in my provisional  
decision while TransUnion provided further  submissions.
First of all TransUnion  explained the reasons  why they would not have  been  able assist Ms J 
by contacting other credit reference  agencies.  And they say that they resolved Ms Js issues 
well within the statutory  time frame and that Ms J didnt need to contact the lenders  herself  
as in situations where the credit file has been merged TransUnions data team  are able to 
make the amendments without having  to contact the lenders in question.
I have carefully considered TransUnions  comments  and understand why they wouldnt have 
contacted the other credit  reference  agencies. I also appreciate  why there  wouldnt have 
been a need for Ms J to have contacted  the lenders individually. However, it appears that 
this wasnt made clear enough  to Ms J and she was left with the impression that this is 
something she had to do. And in these  circumstances  I dont  think  its unreasonable that she 
did what she thought  she had to in order to resolve the situation. In any event, I can 
understand the distress caused  to Ms J (even leaving aside the practical steps  she took)  to 
see someone elses data on her credit file and not knowing  how this may have impacted her 
over they years.  
So I still think that £300 in total more adequately reflects the distress and inconvenience  
caused to Ms J. It follows that I require TransUnion to pay Ms J £300  in total in 
compensation. If they have paid Ms J £150  following the adjudicators view, then they need 
only pay a further  £150 to resolve this matter.  
Ref: DRN23840352my final decision
I uphold Ms J complaint  against TransUnion International  UK Limited  and require them to 
pay Ms J £300 in total in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23840353copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Ms J says that TransUnion International UK Limited (TransUnion)   previously  Callcredit  wrongly 
financially associated  her with someone else on her credit  file and this has adversely impacted her 
ability to get credit.
background 
Ms J said that in 2018 she was attempting  to get a car on finance. When credit checks  were  being  
carried out she was told that it showed she had been in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). 
Ms J had not been in an IVA. Ms J then looked through her credit file and noticed that she had been 
linked incorrectly financially  with someone and that this information had come from TransUnion  
(Callcredit at the time).
TransUnion upheld Ms Js complaint  in that they accepted that they had acted in error by reporting 
data belonging to a third party on her credit  file. They  explained why this error may have occurred and 
apologised for the annoyance  and inconvenience  caused to her. They corrected the error  they had 
made on Ms Js credit  file. 
However, Ms J was not satisfied with this response. She felt that TransUnion hadnt acknowledged 
the negative impact their error had on her financial reputation. She said that TransUnion also didnt 
make other  credit reference  agencies aware of this error and also that there was a further account  
that she was still linked to which belonged  to the other  person. She then brought the complaint to us. 
Ms J wants TransUnion to pay her compensation in the region of £12,000 as she says that being 
incorrectly associated with this person on her credit file has meant she is not eligible to apply for low 
interest cards,  preferential mortgage rates and zero interest  payment schemes. This, she says, 
means that she has ended up with financial products which have cost her more  and that she has had 
to clear balances every  month  to avoid  high interest charges. 
Our investigator considered Ms Js complaint.  He didnt think it was fair to ask TransUnion to 
compensate Ms J for the increased  cost of her credit because he didnt think  the error  TransUnion 
made was the only reason  Ms J didnt get preferential credit  interest rates.
However, although  the investigator did think that TransUnion had acted quickly in restoring her credit 
file, he did think Ms Js complaint should be upheld to the extent that he thought  TransUnion should 
have done more  to rectify their error  and should have informed,  or helped  Ms J in informing,  other 
credit reference agencies that had relied  upon the incorrect information of their error. The investigator 
recommended that TransUnion pay Ms J £150 in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her. 
Ms J did not think £150 in compensation was sufficient to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  to her. And she disagrees  with the investigator about the damage that 
TransUnions mishandling  of her data has had on her financial  reputation. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I agree  with the investigator that Ms Js complaint should  be upheld.  But I currently 
think that Ms J should  be awarded £300  in compensation rather than £150. I appreciate  Ms J was 
looking for a much higher amount in compensation so may be disappointed  by this proposed  award 
but I will now explain why I have reached  this decision.
Ref: DRN23840354I have no doubt that Ms J would have been caused distress and inconvenience because  of 
TransUnions error and its fair that she is awarded some compensation for this. However, I dont think 
it would be fair to hold TransUnion responsible for Ms J not being approved for credit or for not being 
able to get credit at the lower/zero interest rates that she feels she should have been able to get. This 
is because, while its correct  that the person Ms J was associated with did have a poor credit record,  it 
is also right that Ms J was in a debt management plan herself from around 2009 onwards. Although  
Ms J suspects that the incorrect  information has been reported on her credit file since 2002,  
TransUnion have told us that this error began in 2010 and this was after Ms J entered into the debt 
management plan. 
So it isnt possible to say that the only reason  or even the main reason that Ms J was declined  credit 
or was unable to get credit  at the lower rates is because of the error made  by TransUnion. Being in a 
debt management plan is also likely  to have  had a negative impact  on her credit rating. And because 
of this I dont  think its fair or reasonable to ask TransUnion to compensate Ms J for the increased  cost 
of her credit.
However, I accept that it would have been distressing for Ms J to see that a third partys data had 
been incorrectly  recorded on her file and that she was inconvenienced in having to sort things out. Ms 
J says that TransUnion didnt correct their mistake quickly and say that in fact it took many weeks of 
checking that all levels of connection with this other person  were removed as she was connected to 
this person on the file in several ways. She says that TransUnions initial response to the issue was 
that each  lender had to inform  them  that she was not the person  related to the various accounts 
before they would remove  her association.  She says she had to write  to each organisation requesting 
that they write to TransUnion  to remove her name from their records. In these  circumstances I dont 
think £150 is sufficient compensation. I think £300 more  fairly represents a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms J.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Ms Js complaint against TransUnion International UK Limited and to require 
them to pay Ms J £300 in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms J. This is a 
total figure, so if TransUnion  International UK Limited  have already  paid  Ms J the £150  recommended 
by the investigator, then they can deduct this from the £300 Im currently  intending to award.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2384035