K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that UCB  Home Loans Corporation Ltd didnt act fairly or reasonably when  
the initial interest rates for his buy to let mortgages  ended. He wants  a refund  of the extra  
interest paid.
background
Mr K had five buy to let mortgages with UCB. When they were  taken out, the mortgage 
products had an initial interest  rate, which  were  due to end on a variety of dates between 
2009 and 2012. Mr K was unhappy  that when the initial interest rates ended,  UCB didnt 
offer him a competitive new interest  rate. He suggested that this was because he wasnt 
eligible due to the level of the loan to value ratio (LTV  this is the amount  borrowed 
compared to the value  of the properties  held under the mortgages) of the loans.  Mr K 
remortgaged elsewhere in 2014.
Mr K complained to UCB, and said he felt that it was unfair he was on the standard variable  
rate when the products  ended as it was more difficult  for him to remortgage due to falling 
property prices. UCB pointed out that Mr K was a mortgage broker who recommended some 
of the products to himself  as suitable.  It said that there wasnt  evidence hed called a number  
of times to try to get new products, or that he had been prevented from taking  out new 
mortgage products.  It did note though  that Mr K was reminded about  the early  repayment 
charges (ERCs) being applied if he changed mortgage product and in 2013  hed told UCB 
that he was organising a switch. UCB accepted  that it hadnt handled Mr Ks complaint well 
and paid £100 compensation.
Mr K complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that the complaint couldnt  be upheld.  He 
said that there was no evidence  that Mr K had called many times to try to change his interest 
rate. Mr K was invited to provide evidence of the calls. He was unable to do so and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Complaints handling  isnt a regulated 
activity within the jurisdiction of this service, though I can and will look at whether UCB  has 
generally acted  fairly and reasonably. Ill focus  on the core of this complaint which  is about  
what happened when  the mortgages  came off the initial interest  rates.
I note that two of the mortgages  were  held by Mr K with two other individuals  who have not 
agreed to this service  looking  into the complaint. I have  decided to look at the full complaint 
for all five mortgages with only Mr Ks agreement as I think  its fair and appropriate to do so 
in light of my findings below.
Its worth  pointing  out that the mortgage offers, which its fair and reasonable for UCB  to 
have expected Mr K to have read,  set out the initial interest rate and that when it ended, the 
mortgages would move onto the standard variable rate. Its a matter  for the lenders  
commercial judgment at what level to set the standard variable rate, and this service wont  
interfere with that.
Ref: DRN28086312And while Mr K complains that due to falling property values, it was difficult  or impossible  for 
him to remortgage, this same issue would affect UCB. Mortgage products are connected  to 
the LTV; for example,  some interest  rates are only available to those  with a 75% LTV, while 
a lower rate may be available for those with a 50%.  There  are some LTVs which might 
struggle to be offered any mortgage product at all, depending on the lending  policies of the 
lender involved.  Some  lenders stopped offered products at all during the last financial crisis.
Theres no objective evidence supporting  Mr Ks position that he called repeatedly  to change 
his interest rates.  Theres  no contact notes written  at the time showing this from either party 
or a phone bill. And as Mr K is a broker, any calls to UCB mightve been on behalf of clients.  
So I cant uphold his complaint that UCB  refused to help him when he called.
I think its more likely than not that the LTVs of the mortgages between 2009  and 2014  
meant UCB  didnt have  a suitable  product to offer,  despite sending Mr K letters  letting him 
know that the products were ending. Its likely that Mr K as a broker  would have access  to 
the UCB  products available at the time and he hasnt said that there was a product available; 
he has in fact suggested that there wasnt due to LTV issues. Lenders are required to lend 
responsibly, and this principle applies to new mortgage products for existing customers.  And 
lending policies are a commercial decision with which  this service wouldnt interfere, 
provided that theyre applied fairly  and reasonably.  Theres  no evidence on which  I could find 
UCB didnt  apply its lending policies fairly or reasonably in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject  my decision 
before 24 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2808631