K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited,  trading as Alphera Financial Services,  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He also complains about  the interest rate and the credit  checks that 
were completed and that the agreement was unaffordable for him.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr R under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera that was 
dated in September 2018. He says that hed agreed to an interest rate of 7.5% but realised 
that the rate of interest  in the agreement was 13.4%. He says that he tried to cancel the 
agreement and that the car was faulty so he wanted to reject it. 
He complained to the dealer and to Alphera.  Alphera said that there was no fault with the car 
and the operation of the stop/start function  had been  explained  to Mr R. He wasnt  satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that there  
was no evidence that an interest rate of 7.5%  was ever offered to Mr R and he agreed that 
Alphera couldve done more to check the affordability of the agreement but Mr R hadnt 
provided the information that hed requested so that he couldnt properly consider whether it 
was affordable. He said Mr R had a right to withdraw from the agreement but he wouldve 
needed to have repaid  the finance  and didnt do so. And he said that Mr R had reported a 
fault with the car but the issue was rectified by the dealer and it wasnt  necessarily a fault 
with the car.
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He hasnt provided 
any of the information that was requested by the investigator to show that the agreement  
wasnt affordable for him. But he says, in summary,  that:
Alphera failed  to check affordability  which is the issue - not whether it was affordable 
or not - and he didnt see any evidence of a credit check;
he was rushed into signing the documents  and wasnt given them to read; and
he had the right to cancel the agreement within 14 days  and asked for it to be 
cancelled  and he has documentary  evidence of his requests to cancel the 
agreement within the time limit but they were ignored.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R accepts that he signed the agreement  in September 2019. The signature box says, in 
capitals: Important: Before you sign ensure  you have read: the information on pages  1 and 
2, use of your information and the terms and conditions. And it says:
This is a Hire-Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
Mr R says that he was rushed into signing  the agreement and wasnt given an opportunity to 
read the documents before signing them. But this is a legal contract  and I consider that its 
reasonable to expect  him to read the contract before signing it and that, by signing it, he was 
Ref: DRN27784132agreeing to the terms and conditions that it contained.  If he didnt want to do so  or wasnt 
ready to sign the agreement  he had the choice not to sign it.
The key terms are set out in the agreement. The interest rate of 13.4% APR (and an 
effective rate of interest (fixed) of 13.4%  are clearly set out in the agreement  as are the 
monthly repayments of £182.42 (with  an optional  final repayments in the 48th month of 
£3,750.83). Theres no reference  in the agreement to an interest  rate of 7.5% and Ive seen 
no other evidence  to support Mr Rs claim that a rate of interest  of 7.5%  had been  agreed.  
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the agreement  was mis-
represented or mis-sold  to Mr R.
The agreement says that Mr R had the right to withdraw from it within  14 days by written 
notice to Alphera. Mr R says that he gave written notice to Alphera but the agreement also 
says that to withdraw from it he needed  to repay the advance of £8,995 plus interest and that 
ownership of the car would then pass to him. He had no right to withdraw from the 
agreement by returning the car to Alphera.
Mr R says that there was a fault with the car and that he should  be able to reject  it. He 
reported a fault with the car to the dealer but the issue was rectified and the stop/start  
function of the car was explained  to him. Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence to 
show that there was a fault or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mr R. And I dont consider that he had a right to reject the car.
Mr R says that Alphera didnt check whether the agreement  was affordable for him and that 
it isnt. A lender  should  make  proportionate  checks about the affordability of a loan before 
lending to a customer. Whats proportionate  will depend on the circumstances of the loan. 
Alphera says that an automated decision was made on Mr Rs application for credit and 
consideration was given  to his declared employment  status, residential status and age, in 
conjunction with the requested monthly payment  and a credit reference agency request for 
all of his existing credit account  data was also made. And it says that the relevant 
characteristics from that data were then factored  into its scoring model which  approved the 
application.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that those  checks were  made  by Alphera. Even if 
those checks werent  proportionate,  Mr R hasnt provided any evidence to support his claim 
that the agreement wasnt  affordable for him. Hes been asked by the investigator to provide 
details about his income and expenditure but he hasnt done  so. And in the absence of 
information about his financial situation Im unable to conclude whether or not the agreement 
was affordable for him.
The finance  agreement was terminated, and the car was repossessed,  in January 2019. 
Alphera says that the cars  been  sold and that there  are arrears on Mr Rs account. 
I consider that its fair and reasonable for Alphera  to seek payment of those  arrears  from Mr 
R (to the extent that its legally entitled  to). But if Mr R is experiencing financial difficulties 
Alphera is required to respond to those  difficulties positively and sympathetically. 
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show that Alphera  has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings  with Mr R. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to take any action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
Ref: DRN27784133For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2778413