K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc refused to let him reject a car. 
background 
The adjudicator has set out the background in some  detail in her view letter  which I wont  
rehearse here, but the following is a brief summary.  In March 2018 Mr J bought a second 
hand car from a dealer I will call C. It was some 10 years old and had done 39,000 miles. 
The agreement shows the sale price as £7,000 with a deposit of £507  and part exchange 
value of £500 leaving £5,993 funded  by Santander by way of a hire purchase agreement. 
Shortly after he bought  the car Mr J encountered some problems with it and took it to 
another garage which he says identified a number of faults and estimated it would cost in the 
region of £4,000 to repair. He contacted C and asked that it repair the car or pay him £6,000.  
It refused  because he hadnt paid the deposit of £507. He also claimed  that it had given him 
less for his old car than it was worth.
He contacted Santander in June 2018  and said the car had the following problems:
Cracked tyres
Losing power
Compression was leaking
Fuel consumption was high
Driver side window temperamental
Electric plug port not working
Electric warning light illuminated
Vents not working
Engine was cracked
Coolant system not working
Santander commissioned an independent report which identified that several of the faults 
were likely to have  been present at the point of sale. Santander said it would cover the costs  
of the following:
Coolant system
Electric plug socket
Engine crack
Tyre repairs
Offside rear brake light  as a gesture of goodwill
The inspector had been unable to road test the car and said that further  investigation was 
needed into the compression leak and fuel consumption. Santander  agreed  to cover the cost 
of fixing these if a fault was identified. It advised Mr J to take the car to a VAT registered  
garage and obtain a repair quote  to be invoiced to them  directly.  It also forewent two monthly  
instalments totalling  £343.78 to cover the time Mr J was unable to use the car.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators. She shared an invoice with Santander provided by Mr J for the cost of checks  
to the car for £252. It agreed to cover  this cost. Mr J had also questioned  the MOT carried 
Ref: DRN25959702out before  he bought the car, but the adjudicator said she had no reason to doubt its 
accuracy. 
Mr J said that C had asked him to lie to the warranty company, but the adjudicator  explained 
that this wasnt matter for which  Santander  had any responsibility. That said, I note that C 
denied this had happened. As for the deposit  she concluded that on the balance of 
probability Mr J had failed  to pay it and as a result C had refused to carry out any work. C 
had said that Mr J had misled it and the part exchanged car was a category D one which 
meant it was in effect a write off. Mr J disputed this. However she said that the price paid 
was a commercial matter and not one with which she would interfere.
She noted that Santander had agreed  to pay for repairs for faults which the inspector said 
were likely to have  been present at the point of sale and to pay for repair  costs  for the 
compression leak and fuel consumption if a fault was identified. It had also paid Mr Js 
inspection costs and two months  worth of payments.  She thought this was a fair response.  
Mr J didnt agree and said he didnt believe the car had gone  through a proper check before 
he bought it. He also said that he wanted compensation for loss of earnings when he took 
the car to be checked and for the cost of replacing a tyre. He said that when the faults  had 
been identified  Santander should  have taken the car away  and fixed  it. He also suggested 
Santander should pay for excess  fuel costs  he had incurred. He also said that Santander  
had expected him to pay for repairs and it would then reimburse him. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Santander is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I must make it clear  that I am addressing  a complaint against Santander and not C. I have 
no jurisdiction over Cs actions. Therefore this decision will cover only those matters that are 
Ref: DRN25959703the responsibility of Santander. The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  sets out how faults 
should be dealt  with. In short, it says that if these are brought  to the attention  of the seller  or 
finance company  after 30 days but within six months of sale then they have the right to 
repair the goods. If that repair fails to address the problem the consumer can reject  the 
goods.
It is clear there were  faults with the car when Mr J bought it and this has been  confirmed  by 
the independent inspector. However, he couldnt say if several of the faults identified by Mr J 
were present  since he couldnt  test drive the car. Santander said it will pay for the repair  of 
those faults identified by the inspector and it will also pay for those not identified if Mr J takes  
it to a VAT registered  garage and it finds there are faults which  need to be repaired. That is 
fair and reasonable. 
If those repairs dont  fix the faults  then Mr J has the option of rejecting it, but he isnt entitled 
to reject it without first allowing Santander to have it fixed. Mr J is concerned  that he will first 
have to pay for the repairs and wait to be reimbursed by Santander.  However, it has 
confirmed to this service that it will pay the garage direct. If it is uneconomic to make  the 
repairs than Santander  may wish to reconsider and allow  Mr J to reject  the car, but I leave 
that to it.
Mr J has asked for additional compensation, but I dont  consider Santander  should  pay for 
his loss of earnings  or fuel costs. Nor need it pay for the tyre. Such items are in effect 
consumables and part of the cost of owning and running car.
In summary,  Santander has, in effect, said to Mr J we agree the car wasnt  fit for purpose 
and we will pay to repair it. Some for the problems he has identified couldnt be tested by the 
inspector and Santander has said take the car in for these to be fixed if they are faulty and 
we will pay. I am not sure what  else it could do other  than allow Mr J to reject it. However, as 
I have explained  above under the CRA Santander  isnt obliged  to take that route unless the 
repairs are not satisfactory. 
I would suggest  Mr J work with Santander which I believe  is trying to help him. However, I 
dont believe  Santander is obliged to keep this offer open indefinitely and I think  Mr J should 
contact it as soon  as is possible. Finally,  Mr J has suggested he is facing  financial difficulties 
and if that is the case I would  expect Santander  to work with him positively  and 
sympathetically to deal with those.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I leave to Mr J to decide  if he 
wishes to accept the offer made  by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision 
before 24 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2595970