K820x#14complaint
Ms V says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  when she applied  
for a Marks & Spencers card. I can see Ms V has had a few similar  accounts,  so to be clear, 
this decision is about the card she took out in February 1991.
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  is now responsible for these sales  so Ill be referring to it 
throughout my decision. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  and said the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ms V 
disagreed with this and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Vs mis-sale complaint.
Ms V says she doesnt  remember  asking for or agreeing to the PPI. Ive no doubt shes  
provided her best recollection of events, but they are from over 28 years  ago. So I can fully 
understand that she may not be able to remember all the details of the sale. 
I say this because  Ive been sent a copy of the credit agreement Ms V signed when she 
made her application for the card.  I can there was a section about PPI which  was headed  
Payment Protection.  And I can see within this section  there  was an option for Ms V to 
choose whether  or not she wanted any PPI. 
The box to have the PPI was ticked and so I think this shows Ms V wanted to have  the 
cover. If she didnt want the PPI she would have been able to leave the box empty.  She went  
on to sign the application form so I think this shows Ms V would have  been  aware  at the time 
that she had asked for PPI and didnt need  to buy it if she didnt want  to.
From the documents Ive seen  I dont think this was an advised sale. I think the application 
form was filled out and sent off to be processed  without  Ms V being given specific financial 
advice. This means  Allianzs duty was limited to providing her with enough information for 
her to decide for herself  whether or not she wanted  this type of cover.
Overall I think  Ms V had enough information on which to make an informed decision. The 
monthly cost of the policy was 64p per £100  of the outstanding card balance  and this was 
shown directly beside where Ms V was asked to make her choice. The form also referred to 
other information about the PPI cover  which was attached. 
I can see some ways  in which the form could  have been set out in a better way. But I dont 
think this would have  changed what Ms V went on to do. This is because  I think  the evidence 
shows she wanted this type of protection.  She was also eligible for the PPI and I dont think 
that shed have been caught by any of the exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. 
Ref: DRN29114242Ms V told us she already enjoyed sickness protection with her job, implying she didnt really  
need the PPI. I understand  the point being made  but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean 
the PPI wasnt of use to her. In the event of a successful claim for example, the PPI could 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding card balance for up to 12 months. In my experience  
this compares favourably to other PPI policies available  at the time.  
As a non-advised sale the decision about having PPI was for her to make.  I cant say why 
Ms V chose to buy the policy but I do think  the evidence shows she was given a choice  
about buying the cover. 
I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Vs complaint.  And I dont direct Allianz 
Insurance Plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2911424