K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about being chased  for payment of a debt allegedly  owed to Barclays  Bank  
UK PLC on an account she says was closed in 2009.
background
Barclays said in its final response that Mrs S account wasnt  closed when she requested.  
And a marker was applied to the account  preventing correspondence from being  sent to her 
address. That explained  why she wasnt made aware of this sooner. It apologised for this. 
The account  had a zero balance for a long time but in July 2010 a payment debited the 
account for card protection. This resulted in continuous charges on the account increasing 
the debt. It was sorry for this and Mrs S request  to close the account shouldve  been 
processed, cancelling the card protection and preventing this issue from arising.  Its now 
paid off the outstanding  balance, closed the account  and removed the default from her credit 
file. Its also offered £200 as an apology and for her costs of going into the branch. Mrs S 
hadnt accepted this offer.
Mrs S is unhappy with the way shes been treated. She says shes been  caused distressed 
and inconvenienced by whats happened. Its taken over 20 hours  to sort out. The offer of 
£200 is shockingly low.  
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said she understood Mrs S 
surprise and shock at receiving a letter from the debt collection agency in respect of an 
account closed  in 2009. This letter shouldnt have been sent. But Barclays has tried to put 
things right by clearing the outstanding  balance, removing  any adverse information  on her 
credit file and offering  £200 compensation. Thats fair and she will not be asking it to 
increase its offer of compensation.
Mrs S doesnt agree.  In summary  she says she closed the account and the card protection  
shouldve been  cancelled. She wasnt sent any other letters from Barclays as its suggested.  
Receiving this letter was one of the most stressful things shes had to deal with. It affected 
her health,  sleep, relationships and parenting. The £200 offered isnt enough compensation 
for all the stress she and her family have suffered and the additional costs shes  incurred. 
The offer represents  only £20 for every year the account wasnt  closed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has provided detailed submissions to support  her complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Barclays clearly  couldve  dealt with Mrs S better. It made a number of errors which resulted 
in her account not being closed in 2009,  correspondence not being forwarded to her and the 
card protection not being cancelled.
Mrs S remained unaware of these issues for many years until she received a letter from a 
debt collection agency in 2018 seeking repayment  of over £1,200 allegedly owed to 
Ref: DRN26877722Barclays. I can understand how shocked she wouldve  been  by this and how frustrating and 
stressful it wouldve been for her to get things put right.
Barclays has apologised for whats happened. And its put Mrs S back  in the position she 
wouldve been in if it hadnt made these mistakes. Its paid off the outstanding balance  on 
the account, closed it and removed any adverse  entries on her credit file. Thats all fair.
So, the remaining  question  I must  consider is what an appropriate award of compensation is 
for the distress sand  inconvenience Mrs S has been caused.
Barclays has offered £200 for this but Mrs S says this is insulting and isnt enough. She says 
she and her husband spent some  twenty  hours sorting things out including  going into a 
branch. She says she was extremely stressed and this affected  her health, family  life and 
relationships and led to her incurring some extra expenses including for travel and parking. 
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with a complaint  and putting things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend theyre  
compensated for this. But in this case I think Mrs S has clearly been  distressed and put to 
some inconvenience  over and above what would normally be expected.  And I think that 
deserves an award  of some compensation. 
Even so in this case the period of time Mrs S was affected until things were pout right was 
reasonably short. The debt collectors  letter asking for payment was dated  15 August 2018 
and on 25 August it confirmed the account had been settled. Barclays notes also record,  in 
an entry  on 26 September 2018, that by then it had paid off the debt and removed the 
default from Mrs S credit  file. I think  Barclays  and its debt collectors  acted reasonably 
promptly dealing with things and putting  them right.  
I recognise that this matter has also had an effect on Mrs S husband and family. But Im 
afraid I cannot award them  any compensation for this as they arent Barclays customers.
Mrs S also says the £200 compensation  offered represents only £20 for each  year the 
account remained open. But thats not the way we calculate compensation. There was a 
considerable delay before Mrs S became aware  of Barclays errors  and their effect. But in 
that intervening  period Mrs S wouldnt  have  experienced any additional  distress  or 
inconvenience as she clearly wasnt aware of or affected by them  until August 2018 when 
she received the debt collectors letter. Consequently I cant  reasonably award  her any 
compensation for the period of time from 2009 to receiving the debt collectors  letter in mid 
August 2018.
Taking everything into account,  including the levels of award  we make,  I think an award of 
£200 compensation is fair in this case. I realise  this is less than Mrs S would like. But I think  
this amount adequately compensates her for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced sorting things out including her calls, visit to the branch, obtaining  credit  
searches and any incidental costs she incurred  including travel and parking. 
And although I sympathise with Mrs S on the position she found herself in, I dont think  I can 
reasonably require Barclays to pay any more. 
Ref: DRN26877723Overall, although I recognise  Mrs S frustration and strength of feeling,  l think the 
investigators proposed  resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. And I dont see 
any reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case. 
I simply leave  it to Mrs S to decide  if she now wants to accept  Barclays  offer of £200 
compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2687772