K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment mortgage protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy taken out in 2003. Mr and Mrs P say National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) mis-
sold them  the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website  which Ive taken into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs P say that, having  declined the opportunity  to take MPPI, the policy was added  
to their mortgage without  their knowledge. I dont doubt the honesty of their recollections. But 
the event in question did take place over 15 years  ago. They  havent told us much  about 
what happened in 2003. And it doesnt  look like they were able to remember much when 
they spoke to NatWest  about their complaint. This isnt that surprising. Even the best of 
memories can struggle over the sort of timeframe involved in this case.  Yet this is something  
I have to consider  when  weighing  up whats likely  to have happened.
NatWest has provided us with Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage application form  missing from 
which are pages  8 and 9. NatWest says that these were the Mortgage Repayments  
Protector application form (which Ill refer to as the MPPI application form for ease) and 
Direct Debit mandate. And it says that theyre  missing because it sent these pages to the 
insurer to process Mr and Mrs Ps application  for cover.  
I can understand why, in the absence of a signed  MPPI application  form, Mr and Mrs P are 
arguing that it was added to their mortgage  without their knowledge. However,  I havent  seen 
anything persuasive  to suggest  that theres  a reason to doubt  or disbelieve  NatWests  
explanation on why the pages in question are missing.  Included with NatWests  final 
response letter to Mr and Mrs P was a sample of the MPPI application form that it says 
would have been included in their mortgage  application form. And having looked at the 
sample, it does look like it would have been  included. I say this because  page 7 of 
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage application  form ends with section 18  while the sample  MPPI  
application form starts with section  19 and does carry the page  number  8. 
NatWest has also provided  us with Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage quotation and mortgage offer  
both of which were important documents for them to read given the information they 
contained about their mortgage. And both made  reference to MPPI. The quotation listed, for 
example, the MPPI policy in a section  called Monthly Payment. It was described as 
Mortgage Repayments Protector Premium  (Optional) and it was immediately followed by a 
breakdown of the monthly cost. The mortgage  offer, on the other hand, said the following on 
page 2: The Borrower has instructed the Lender to arrange Mortgage Repayment Protector 
Insurance with full accident, sickness and unemployment payment protection  insurance. 
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded its likely  the policy was added to Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage without  their knowledge  given  what the paperwork from the time suggests  and the 
extent of their recollections. And as the sample  MPPI  application form suggests  that 
applicants had a choice to make when  deciding whether to take such cover, Im also not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs P took the policy because they thought they had to.
Ref: DRN28304722NatWest says that it didnt  recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs P and Im inclined to agree  
with that as theres nothing persuasive to suggest  it did. As a result, it wasnt responsible  for 
making sure the policy was right for them. Instead, it had to make  sure they got the 
information they needed to decide  that for themselves.  So thats what Ive looked at.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs P about the policy  wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover 
available to them - so it would have been  useful for them if something went wrong. 
I know Mr and Mrs P say they were entitled  to some  sick pay from their employer. However, 
they were taking on a significant and long-term  financial  commitment secured against their 
home. The mortgage repayments would  have been important repayments to maintain in the 
event they found themselves out of or unable to work. And as the policy would  have helped  
them to keep up with their repayments  over a reasonably significant period of time instead  of 
having to rely on their sick pay, which they could have used elsewhere,  I think  the policy  
would have been helpful  especially  as it also included cover in the event of unemployment.
And with all of that being the case, Im not persuaded better  information  about the MPPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs P off taking out the cover. 
I have thought about the commission Mr and Mrs P paid on their MPPI  and whether  
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ps MPPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest works this out and, based on 
what weve seen, it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ps commission was less than half the 
cost of the MPPI.  As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them  about  the commission 
 so I dont think  NatWest treated them unfairly. And this means it doesnt need to pay 
Mr and Mrs P back any of the commission they paid on the MPPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2830472