K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) has charged them too 
much for their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs C insured  their home  through  Bank  A. Although it was Bank  A that sold the 
insurance and whose name was on the policy, it was actually Aviva that underwrote  the 
policy and set the price, so its responsible  for answering this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C took out a policy in January 2008, but it was automatically  cancelled in 2011  
as there  was a problem  with payment  I understand this was not the fault of Mr and Mrs C. 
In January 2013 Mr and Mrs C took out a second policy,  although it was linked to the earlier,  
cancelled one with retrospective continuous  cover applied. In 2008 the policy  cost was 
£411.90, rising to £461.84 in 2010. In 2011,  the policy was cancelled  halfway  through  the 
year, but a new policy was set up in 2013  that also retrospectively covered the period from 
the cancellation. The cost in 2013 was £526.55 for the year and by 2019 the cost had risen 
to £645.92. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs C complained that they had been overcharged for their insurance.  They  
said theyd managed to find cheaper cover directly with Aviva than if they went via Bank A, 
which they didnt  think was fair. Aviva responded to say it was able to offer a discount to the 
cost of the insurance, something it had agreed to do every year since 2015.
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly.  But Mr and 
Mrs C asked for the complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman for review.
Having looked  at all of the evidence  and arguments,  I issued a provisional decision on their 
complaint. I agreed  with our adjudicator, but for slightly different reasons. This is an extract 
from that provisional decision:
Mr and Mrs C have  complained about  how much theyve been  charged for 
insurance. My role is to consider whether they have been treated fairly by Aviva  in 
the way they have  been charged for their insurance. But its not my role to set what I 
consider to have  been a fair price for the risk insured. So, for example, if I thought 
Aviva had only increased the price of the policy because Mr and Mrs C had held it for 
a number of years and hadnt engaged  with the renewal process, its likely Id say 
that wasnt fair. And, in those circumstances, Id tell Aviva to pay some  
compensation. But here I dont think that was what happened.  
Mr and Mrs C have an ongoing  claim for subsidence  that has been continuing for 
several years. That claim has already been  considered in two other, separate  
complaints by this service. I understand Mr and Mrs C feel great  frustration at the 
time the claim has been going on for and they feel that their property needs to be 
underpinned. For the avoidance of doubt,  the complaint  that I am considering only 
concerns the pricing of the insurance policy.
Ref: DRN20658192Mr and Mrs Cs policy cost remained relatively stable between 2008 and 2011,  being 
between £400  and £500 per year. Although  Mr and Mrs C took out a new policy  in 
2013, for the purposes of this decision,  I think it would make sense to treat this as a 
continuous policy. I say this as it was covering the same risk and was provided in 
similar terms.
In 2013 the price was £526.55 and the following year £573.36. In 2015 the premium 
quoted was £668, but Mr and Mrs C called to say they had shopped around and 
could get similar cover for less with another insurer. Ive seen that the policy excess 
was amended, the extra accidental damage cover  removed and a further discount 
brought the cost down to £600. And Ive seen that Mr and Mrs C called every year 
thereafter to negotiate a further reduction. This has meant the policy cost between 
£600 and £700 between  2015 and 2019, falling to £562.24 in 2020.
As Mr and Mrs C engaged annually about the price  of their insurance, I dont think  
this is a case where the price was increased  due to any lack of engagement  in fact 
they negotiated the price every year. Aviva  has also shown that the actual  cost of 
providing the insurance wasnt  static, so it went up and down over the years. And I 
think this is the main reason the costs  of the insurance changed.
Each insurer will work out risks for itself and its not my role to say whether I think 
Aviva worked out its approach to risk properly or for me to say I think it should have 
concluded the level of risk was different. Aviva made its own assessment of risk and I 
think it priced Mr and Mrs Cs policy in line with what it felt those risks were. It follows 
I dont think it increased  the price  for any unfair or improper reasons.
Mr and Mrs C have provided  a quote for an alternative policy  that was significantly 
cheaper, and that quote was from Aviva. But I dont  think its as simple to compare 
the costs of the two policies to conclude that one is too expensive. Aviva has looked 
at the lower policy quote and its said it was for a different product with a different 
excess and without accidental damage cover. The cheaper quoted policy  also had a 
new customer discount associated with it, so its likely Aviva would have increased 
the cost of cover at later renewals to remove that discount.
Mr and Mrs C say that their subsidence  claim with Aviva has been going on for too 
long, so they havent been able to move  insurers. I can understand why they would 
feel this way, but in this complaint, Ive only considered the way Aviva  set the price, 
not whether it should have underpinned their house earlier  that is something that 
has already been  looked  at in two other  complaints reviewed by our service. But that 
doesnt mean I think anything has gone  wrong.
Insurance policies  often  exclude cover to new customers for things that have 
happened in the past. That means  Mr and Mrs C might find it difficult  to get cover for 
subsidence if they moved to another insurer. And if I thought Aviva had increased 
their policy costs just because of this, effectively taking advantage  of the position Mr 
and Mrs C found themselves in, I might not think that was fair. But as set out above, I 
think there were risk related reasons why the premiums increased in the way they 
did. And Aviva has said that, although Mr and Mrs C have made a claim in the past, 
that claim was attached  to their earlier policy that was closed  in 2011. So that claim 
hasnt affected  the price  of the policy taken  out in 2013, even though it was linked to 
the earlier one. It follows I dont think Aviva did take advantage of any previous 
subsidence claims.
Ref: DRN20658193Mr and Mrs C have also asked me to take into account a newspaper  story  about a 
customer who got a refund  in what they say are similar circumstances to their own.  
Unfortunately I dont have  all the details of that case, so I dont know why that person 
was offered a refund. But we decide every complaint on its own merits and Ive 
explained why I dont think anything went wrong in Mr and Mrs Cs case.  
 
In conclusion, I dont  think Aviva has acted unfairly  in the way its priced Mr and 
Mrs Cs policy.  I do understand  why they feel differently given the cheaper insurance 
theyve found  elsewhere, but Im not going to tell Aviva to do anything further.
Neither Mr and Mrs C nor Aviva responded with anything further they wanted me to think 
about.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Mr and Mrs Cs frustrations and concerns  about  what  they have paid for 
their insurance. But for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont think  Aviva  has 
acted unfairly towards them. As I havent  been  asked to consider anything further, I see no 
reason to change  my mind from what I said in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2020.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2065819