K821x#15complaint
Mr L is a director of a limited company, G, and complaints on its behalf.  Mr L says HSBC UK 
Bank Plc hasnt paid enough compensation for a collar sold in 2007.
Mr L and G are both represented by another limited company, which I will call J. 
J is also representing Mr L in a complaint he makes on his own behalf,  but this decision is 
solely about Gs complaint. I have  issued a separate decision on the other  complaint.  I hope  
Mr L and J will understand  why Ive expressed  my two decisions in very similar terms.
background
In 2007, G borrowed  money from HSBC.  It took out a collar to support that borrowing.
In 2011, the collar was terminated  early.  HSBC lent G additional  money to fund the break 
costs.
In 2014, HSBC looked at the sale of the collar under the review it had agreed  with its 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. HSBC decided that if everything had happened 
as it should, G wouldnt  have bought the collar. HSBC  offered to refund all the payments 
made towards the collar, plus interest.  It called this refund basic  redress.
There was some discussion  between  HSBC and Gs representatives about whether HSBC 
would cover the costs  associated with the loan G had taken out in 2014. HSBC agreed to 
write off some  lending,  and G accepted  the basic redress  in March 2015.
G retained its right to make  a claim for the additional, or consequential,  losses  G suffered 
as a result  of taking  out the collar.  Mr L now brings  that complaint to our service on Gs 
behalf. He also complains that HSBC treated both him and G unfairly during the review.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2019. Briefly,  I said:
I have no power  to investigate the way HSBC carried out its review into the sale of 
the collar. That means I cant  look at a complaint about whether HSBC  failed to make 
reasonable adjustments to allow Mr L and G to participate fully in the review.
Whilst I accepted that G had incurred legal, accountancy and business restructuring 
fees as a result of HSBCs mistakes  in selling the collar, I didnt think HSBC  should 
have to pay as much for those  fees as Mr L and J claimed.  Broadly, I thought that by 
the middle of January 2014 it was no longer reasonable for Mr L to be concerned that 
G was trading whilst  insolvent  and so I didnt think HSBC should  have  to refund any 
restructuring fees G incurred after 14 January 2014.
I did not think it would be fair for me to order HSBC to refund any of the fees J 
charged for helping  G to make its complaint. However, HSBC  had already made  an 
offer in respect of those fees,  and I saw no reason  to interfere with that offer.
Ref: DRN26990932In light of my comments about fees,  HSBC said it was no longer prepared  to pay quite as 
much as it had previously offered. I wrote to both parties in January 2020 to explain why I 
thought a fair outcome  to this complaint would be for HSBC to pay G:
£350 towards legal fees;
£3,756.20  towards  accountancy fees;
£1,797 towards  Js fees;
£6,526 for additional tax as a result of the redress  payment;
£600 for bookkeeping  costs;
£300 for bank  charges;
£1,000 for overdraft  arrangement fees;
£712 for default fees;
£679.05 for overdraft  interest in excess of the 8% paid on the basic  redress;  plus
Interest on the legal  and accountancy  fees,  at a rate of 8% per year simple, from the 
date those fees were  paid.
Both parties  made further comments  in response to my provisional findings.
Mr L and J believe I have  not given enough weight to some  of their evidence,  and that I have 
misunderstood part of the remainder. In particular, J said:
Mr Ls disability, together with my refusal to meet him, means that Mr L was unable  to 
bring Gs complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman Service  without  assistance.
G also required professional help because Mr L had legitimate concerns  that the 
collar would cause  him to trade whilst insolvent. Those concerns  continued  after 
January 2014,  and forced Mr L to seek help from J and other  businesses.
As a result, HSBC should refund  the whole of Js fees.
HSBC said:
It remains satisfied that it carried out the review correctly, and that the offer it made  
following the review  was appropriate.
It considers that I should apply a cutoff date of 14 January 2014 to Gs accountancy 
fees as well as to restructuring fees.
In respect of accountancy fees, it is still prepared to offer Mr and Mrs L the amount  it 
offered in the review  that is, £575 towards  the fees charged by one firm of 
accountants, and £1,069 plus VAT towards the fees charged by a second  firm of 
accountants.
It is also prepared to pay additional  £2,000 plus VAT towards the representatives 
fees for assistance  with the consequential  loss claim (that is, a total of £2,600 plus 
VAT). But it wants to make  clear that this is in the interests of resolving the 
complaint and should not be construed as the Bank agreeing  that [G] should have 
received additional compensation in relation  to this head of claim.
Ref: DRN26990933Finally, the bank would like all of its offers to be referred to as part of the award in my 
decision, rather than being a standalone offer between the bank and G. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the parties  
responses to my provisional  decision and subsequent email, to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstly, I want to stress that I fully accept that HSBC  made serious mistakes in the sale of the 
collar. I havent said much  about  those mistakes  but that is because there is no dispute  
about them. HSBC  agrees that it should  not have sold the collar in the first place. G has 
already accepted the basic redress HSBC offered (that is, a refund of the payments it made 
under the collar). So there is no need for me to make any findings on that issue.
I also want to confirm  that I have not considered any aspect of the way HSBC carried  out its 
review of the sale of the collar. As I explained  in my provisional decision, I have no power to 
review the review. That means  I cant make any findings about  whether HSBC made 
reasonable adjustments for Mr Ls disability when it carried out the review.  Similarly, I cant 
make any findings about  whether HSBC carried out the review properly when it decided how 
much to offer with respect to accountancy  fees.
My role here is to consider Gs complaint about  the consequential losses that Mr L says it 
has suffered. For this part of the complaint, I need to look at whether the banks failures in 
selling the collar actually caused these losses. And if they did, I also need to ask whether its 
fair to hold the bank responsible for the losses. To do this, Id need to ask whether the bank 
could reasonably foresee that its failures would result in losses like these. In other  words,  Id 
need to be satisfied that the losses werent  too remote from the banks failings.
I have carefully considered both parties responses to my provisional decision and follow up 
email. Having done so, I still consider that the outcome  I reached  in my follow  up email was 
fair. I know both parties disagree with me about  that  but they have very different reasons 
for their disagreement. I give a further explanation for my findings below. I will concentrate 
on the issues of fees to Gs accountant and to J, on the grounds  that there is no longer a 
dispute about the other issues.
However, it would  not be right for me to ignore HSBCs wish that I make an award that is  in 
some respects  higher than the award I suggested  in my email. Whilst I remain  satisfied  
that the award I suggested in respect of Js fees was fair, I have increased it at HSBCs 
request. I acknowledge that HSBC does not agree  with me in respect  of accountancy fees,  
but it did not make its offer in respect of Js fees conditional on my findings with respect  to 
any other aspect of this complaint.
the representatives fees
The ombudsman offers a free and informal service  to resolve  disputes.  We decide whether a 
bank has treated its customer fairly by looking at the facts of the case   not at how well the 
complaint is presented. We dont usually require a bank  to pay a customers costs  for 
professional help in bringing their complaint here. But I do have the power to make such  an 
award if I consider  it appropriate.
Ref: DRN26990934In this particular  case, I am satisfied that everyone  involved has had a fair opportunity to tell 
me what they think about this complaint. I know that Mr L and his representative strongly 
disagree with me, and that the representative says Mr L and G could not have used our 
service without assistance. But as I said in my provisional decision,  I am not satisfied  that 
Mr L was unable to bring  Gs complaint to our service or to HSBC. I consider that neither he 
nor his representative engaged with our attempts to discuss alternatives to a face-to-face 
meeting, and they have not explained why the alternatives we suggested would not have 
been appropriate for him. I am therefore unable to conclude that it was necessary for Mr L to 
employ a representative.  
Having said that, HSBC has asked me to order it to pay the amount it has offered voluntarily. 
I see no disadvantage to G in my complying  with its request. So, if G accepts my final 
decision in time, HSBC will be required to pay the amount I have ordered. If G does not 
accept my final decision in time  or if it decides  to reject my final decision  then my 
decision will not bind HSBC or G. 
accountancy fees
It isnt possible for me to say exactly how much of G accountancy fees have been caused by 
the sale of the collar.  However, I dont think HSBC  is right to suggest a cutoff date in January  
2014 for accountancy fees.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  that any insolvency  concerns Mr L might 
have had after January 2014  were no longer caused by the collar. At that point, he knew  that 
HSBC would be refunding all the payments G had made to the collar. As a result,  I dont 
think HSBC should  have to pay for restructuring advice after January 2014. However, the 
position is different  for accountancy  advice.
It is possible for the tax consequences of the mis-sale of a collar to extend  beyond the date 
basic redress is paid. In this case,  the practical effect of HSBCs basic redress  payment was 
to move profit G should have earned  in previous years (whilst the collar was in force)  to the 
year in which the basic redress was paid. That meant G moved into a higher tax bracket  for 
the year.
HSBC has agreed to refund the additional tax G paid because  it received profits  later than it 
should have done. I consider that fair. But I also consider that the tax situation  inevitably 
meant that Gs accountants spent time after January 2014 calculating  the tax impact of the 
collar. 
I acknowledge that some of the fees Gs accountants charged after January 2014  might 
have been towards  restructuring advice  as Ive said,  it is not possible for me to say exactly  
what each fee was for. But in the overall circumstances, I still consider that the award I 
suggested for accountancy  fees in my January 2020 email remains fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order HSBC UK Bank  Plc to pay G:
Ref: DRN26990935£350 towards legal fees;
£3,756.20  towards  accountancy fees;
£2,600 plus VAT towards Js fees;
£6,526 for additional tax as a result of the redress  payment;
£600 for bookkeeping  costs;
£300 for bank  charges;
£1,000 for overdraft  arrangement fees;
£712 for default fees;
£679.05 for overdraft  interest in excess of the 8% paid on the basic  redress;  plus
Interest on the legal  and accountancy  fees,  at a rate of 8% per year simple, from the 
date those fees were  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020..
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2699093