K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Zurich Insurance PLC has dealt with his claim for damage to his 
home from an escape of water under his home  insurance policy. He says thereve been 
delays in getting repairs done,  the quality of the repairs  has been poor and he doesnt  think  
the cash settlement  or compensation hes been  offered  is fair.
background
In my provisional decision of 24 April 2020 (a copy of which  Ive attached  to this final 
decision), I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Mr M has accepted 
my decision.  Zurich hasnt  responded to it.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had no further comments from Mr M or from Zurich. And Ive seen nothing to make me 
think I should change  the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. So for the reasons 
I gave in it, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint  in part.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision of 24 April 2020, I uphold  Mr Ms complaint 
in part. Zurich Insurance PLC should  pay Mr M £170  to meet  the shortfall from the quote of 
£830 he got to carry  out the final rectification works on his home following his claim for an 
escape of water in March  2018. 
Zurich Insurance  PLC should also pay Mr M the £250 in compensation that it has already  
offered him for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused him. But I dont make any 
additional award for distress and inconvenience.
Zurich Insurance  PLC should pay Mr M the amounts Ive set out above within  28 days of the 
date we tell it Mr M has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, it should pay him simple 
interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24759792COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 24 APRIL 2020
complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Zurich Insurance PLC has dealt with his claim for damage to his home  from 
an escape of water under  his home insurance policy. He says thereve been delays in getting  repairs 
done, the quality of the repairs has been poor and he doesnt think  the cash settlement or 
compensation hes been  offered is fair.
background
In March 2018, Mr M notified  Zurich of damage to his home from melting snow that had escaped  into 
his loft. Zurich accepted his claim. In July 2018, Mr M complained that some of the initial repairs  that 
had been done by Zurichs suppliers were  unsatisfactory. After an inspection by its agent, Zurich 
authorised rectification works. In October 2018, Mr M complained  about the rectification  works. After  
another inspection, Zurich authorised  further rectification works.
Rather than carry on with Zurichs supplier,  Mr M asked for a cash settlement to get the further 
rectification works done.  Initially, Zurich offered him a settlement of £200. When he said he was 
unhappy with this, Zurich  asked him to get his own quotes. Mr M was only able to get one quote, for 
£830. Zurich offered  and paid Mr M  £660 towards that quote. So   Mr M has a shortfall  of £170. 
Zurich has also offered Mr M compensation  of £650 in total as follows: in August 2018, as an apology 
for poor workmanship, it waived his policy excess of £200. In September  2018,  as an apology  for the 
delays he was experiencing,  it offered Mr M a further £250. And, in February  2019, it offered Mr M a 
further £200  as an apology for the issues he was having.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it 
initially upheld  it. He said he thought Zurich  should pay Mr M the shortfall of £170 to cover  his quote of 
£830 in full. And he also thought Zurich should  pay Mr M an additional £150 for the distress  and 
inconvenience it had caused  him.
Zurich responded  to our investigators view with some additional information about how it had arrived 
at its offer of £660. In light of this new evidence, our investigator  changed  his view and didnt uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M disagrees and so his complaint has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Under Mr Ms home insurance  policy, Zurich  is entitled to decide  how to settle his claim.      Mr Ms 
policy also says its for Zurich to decide  whether to repair, replace,  make a cash payment  or reinstate  
the damaged  part of the buildings  and that it will have the option to do this by using  one of its 
suppliers. These are standard clauses in home insurance policies  and I think theyre fair and 
reasonable. It was only after Mr M had two sets of problems with the repairs carried out by Zurichs 
suppliers that he asked  Zurich for a cash settlement  for the final rectification works, instead of carrying 
on with them. Zurich  agreed but said that under the policy it wouldnt pay more than the cost to it of 
using its preferred supplier for the repair. 
In this case, Zurichs supplier initially said it would cost around £200 for it to do the repairs. These 
repairs have been described by Zurich as snagging  works to the painting that had been done 
previously. When Zurich  queried this figure it became clear the supplier  had missed out from its 
Ref: DRN24759793calculations some  of the work that needed  to be done.  In particular, I understand coving  needed to be 
replaced in two bedrooms and a hallway  and landing. The supplier  subsequently said it would cost 
around £140  to replace the coving, bringing its quote for the further rectification works to around £340.  
So, based on the policy terms, Zurich  says it shouldnt have to offer Mr M more  than £340 as a cash 
settlement for this work.  This is what it calls the limit of its liability.
In Mr Ms case, though, Zurich says it understood why he didnt  want to continue  with its suppliers. 
And it says thats why it asked Mr M to get two of his own quotes. I think  Zurichs approach  here in 
extending the limit of its liability was fair and reasonable. But Mr M says he struggled to get a second 
quote and Zurich  thinks the quote Mr M did get was inflated. And thats why in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Ms case, although it was willing to increase its offer to £660, Zurich didnt think it 
was fair and reasonable  for it to pay the full amount of the quote.   
On the evidence  Ive got so far  which I acknowledge isnt complete  I dont think  Zurichs final 
position on this is fair and reasonable and it hasnt provided any basis for its offer of £660. Consumers  
cant get work done as cheaply as big insurers  and based on what Ive seen so far, my current  view is 
that it should  pay the shortfall of £170.  I say this this having looked  very carefully at the quote Mr M 
got and at what  Zurichs suppliers have said about its quote. 
Mr Ms quote is for replacement coving in two bedrooms and the hall stairs and landing. Its also for 
redecoration of one bedroom and the hall stairs and landing which is described as being needed due 
to poor  decorating by previous. 
The quote from Zurichs  supplier is for snagging  in the two bedrooms, the landing and hallway and 
for the replacement coving.  It seems to me this quote is for touching up areas of paintwork,  rather  
than completely redecorating the rooms   and I think this is one reason why Zurichs suppliers quote  
is so much lower  than Mr Ms. Especially given  that the coving needed  to be replaced, it doesnt seem 
to me unreasonable that these rooms would also need  to be completely redecorated, rather  than 
touched up.
As Ive already mentioned,  Im conscious the evidence I have  so far on this complaint isnt complete. 
For example, I dont have details of what Mr M was unhappy about following the rectification works 
(i.e. the second set of repairs), nor do I have the report from the inspection that was carried out 
afterwards or any photographs showing  the final work  that needed to be done.  If either Mr M or Zurich  
has any other  evidence it can show me, I will look at this again. But, based on what Ive seen so far 
and for the reasons Ive given, I think its fair and reasonable that Zurich  should  make up the shortfall 
of £170 on the quote Mr M got.
Turning now to the compensation  Zurich  has offered  Mr M for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused him. Mr M says hes suffered stress and strain dealing with the complaint,  which has included 
taking time off work. I understand the experience  has been difficult for him. But I think Zurich has 
acknowledged its various failings along with the way  first by waiving Mr Ms policy excess,  then by 
offering him £250 in compensation for the poor quality of the first set of repairs  and then by offering  
him £200 as an apology for the service hed had and the issues this had caused him. And I think it 
has acted fairly and reasonably in compensating Mr M as it has for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused  him. So I dont currently intend to award Mr M any further compensation.  I understand 
that Mr M hasnt received the £250 compensation he was offered in September 2018 and, if that is the 
case, Zurich should pay him this.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given and subject to any further information I receive, I intend to direct  Zurich 
Insurance PLC to pay Mr M £170 to meet the shortfall from the quote of £830 he got to carry  out the 
final rectification works on his home following his claim  for an escape of water in March 2018.  
Ref: DRN24759794Zurich Insurance  PLC should also pay Mr M the £250 in compensation that it has already offered him 
for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. But I dont intend to make any additional  award 
for distress and inconvenience.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2475979