K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Its not 
clear who sold the policy  and its possible the policy was sold by a different  business (a 
broker business). But Santander UK Plc (Santander) has taken responsibility for the sale. 
To keep  things simple,  I will refer to Santander  as the seller throughout this decision.
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
The PPI policy was bought by Mrs W alone,  and only covered Mrs W. But the PPI protected 
the payments  on a mortgage, which was for a period at least, a joint mortgage  that Mr W 
was named on. I can see Mr W has signed our complaint form and joined in to this 
complaint. But Mr W was not named or covered  under  the policy at the time of sale. 
Mrs W bought the policy  in 2003. Due to the time that has passed, its not clear how Mrs W 
applied for her PPI policy. Mrs W says it mightve been sold over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs W only for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £218 a month  towards Mrs Ws 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £13.16 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs W was employed as an accounts assistant. She has told us she was entitled 
to sick pay, redundancy pay and death  in service benefit through  her employer. She also 
said she had a life insurance policy. Mrs W has said she was diagnosed with a medical 
condition many years before the sale. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that Mrs W did not have a mortgage with 
Santander at the time she took the PPI. 
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ws representative says:
Santander failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mrs W wouldnt have taken 
out the policy and the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs Ws representatives believe 
there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Santander should have 
told Mrs W about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN21147402The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Santander should  have  
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs W and the 
impact they would have  had on her chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage  is generally 
someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  
be most  needed; and
The information Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not Santander. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN21147403This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees  of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes  into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mrs Ws case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander  gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN21147404-Whether Santander gave  Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing 
to her attention and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mrs W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Neither Santander nor Mrs W have been able to provide me with copies of the paperwork 
from the time of sale. I dont think thats surprising given how long ago the policy  was sold 
but it does mean I have  limited information about the sale. So I have to decide what I think is 
more likely based on the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Santander has shown  us a screenshot of its records showing Mrs W didnt  have a mortgage 
with Santander  at the time she took the PPI. Mrs W did apply  for a mortgage with Santander,  
but this was not until 2006. The mortgage application form from 2006 shows her mortgage 
prior to 2006 was with a different provider. As she appears to have applied for a stand-alone 
policy with a completely  different business  to her mortgage provider  I think  she wouldve 
known the PPI with Santander was a separate and optional  product. 
Santander has provided a copy of a welcome letter and insurance  schedule sent to Mrs W a 
few days after the policy started. This explained  she had bought cover for accident, sickness 
and unemployment  covering Mrs W only. It had the cost, benefit  amount, benefit period and 
excess period noted on there. Had Mrs W not agreed to buy PPI, I wouldve expected her to 
have questioned why it had been  set up on receipt  of this welcome letter. 
Santander also says the PPI wouldnt have  been added without her consent and, without 
evidence to the contrary, I think  thats  likely to be right. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs W knew  the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
As Santander doesnt know  how the policy was sold, it doesnt  know if advice was provided  
during the sale.  And Mrs W says she cant remember if advice was provided.  Santander  has 
treated this case as an advised sale. This holds  Santander to a higher standard  as this 
means Santander had to advise Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances. So, Ive also 
done the same and assessed this case as an advised  sale.
Ref: DRN21147405the advice
As explained above, I dont know what (if any) steps Santander took to establish whether the 
policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W. It seems Mrs W cant remember  clearly 
what happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. 
The adviser likely would  have had some limited information about Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish 
whether Mrs W (as the policy holder)  would have been caught by the significant exclusions 
and limitations which  might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Santander  considered whether Mrs W had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs W given her circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded Santander  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs W met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ws ability to continue  to meet 
her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain if Mrs W was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the employee  benefits she say she 
would have  been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mrs W. 
-The exclusions and limitations  didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mrs W. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ws employment  or occupation  which would have  made it difficult  for 
her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs W has told us about  a 
medical condition  she was diagnosed with many years  before the sale. But she hasnt  
told us this was an ongoing problem that affected  her during the sale or that she needed 
to take any significant  time off work for it. So I dont  think the condition  made the policy 
unsuitable for her. There were also no additional  restrictions on cover  for mental  health  
or back problems.
-While  there were limits  to the cover provided by the policy (including: the any other 
occupation condition,  the requirement  that Mrs W be disabled or unemployed for 28 
days before she could make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy  still provided valuable  cover given:
Mrs Ws circumstances, including Mrs Ws employers sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 28-
day qualification  period) and the limits  to those provisions,  which mean  the policy  
could play an important  role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to her home and 
the potential consequences should Mrs W be unable to make  the repayments  on 
loans secured against her house.
Ref: DRN21147406Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Santander was recommending to her and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs W was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs W would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs W agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mrs W all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ws representative  considers to be poor value  and 
the fact that much  of the premium went to the business  rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W have suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
Ref: DRN21147407what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mrs W? To what extent  did Mrs W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs W. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs W, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mrs W would  have acted differently, or whether she would have  taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mrs W says she wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences she will suffer if she does not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event Mrs W was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. But the 
information about aspects of the policy, such as the cost, benefit, limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs W knew she would have to pay 
something for the policy, I havent seen evidence  that Santander told her the exact premium 
at the point Mrs W applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mrs W would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years. 
She was also sent a welcome letter which noted the cost on it, shortly  after the policy  
started. If the costs were  significantly  at odds with her expectations at the point of sale,  its 
possible she might  have  raised that with Santander  at the time or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs W would have found the cost unacceptable  if she had been 
given the exact figure when she agreed  to the policy.
Ref: DRN21147408In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mrs W would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ws expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition which  Mrs W had, or for 
which she had consulted  a doctor  about during  the 12 months before the start date of 
the policy;
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim  Mrs W be unable  to do 
her own job or any other work  which her experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs W was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs W says she suffered from a 
medical condition  many years before the sale, and the policy  might  not have provided cover  
had she needed  time off work because of it, I dont think better information about this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because Mrs W hasnt  told us she 
needed any significant time off work  because  of this condition, or that it was still causing her 
any problems at the time of sale. So, I dont think she wouldve envisaged needing to make a 
claim because  of it.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Ref: DRN21147409If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would do. And I accept it 
may have  given her pause for thought   although  given Mrs Ws circumstances, on balance, 
I still think she would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Santander may not have told Mrs W that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs W would have received full sick pay for, and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs W would  still have  thought a policy that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mrs Ws sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs W would still have  taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she were getting  and provided benefits that 
would help them manage the consequences  if Mrs W was made redundant, or unable to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mrs W would  have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs W 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN211474010Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I dont 
consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would represent fair 
compensation to put Mrs W in the position  she would have been in if she had not bought  the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken out 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she was 
buying. So, Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Santander  should pay Mrs W compensation, as that would put her in a better 
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs W thinks Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mrs W, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2114740