K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains about the service he received from Sainsburys  Bank Plc (Sainsburys) in 
relation to a failed direct debit hed set up to service his Sainsburys credit card.
background 
The adjudicators background summary  covered the relevant facts  and is known to both Mr J 
and Sainsburys so I wont repeat it all. Therefore,  if Ive not mentioned something its not 
because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues.   
In February this year Mr J switched his bank account. He notified Sainsburys of this online, 
and in good time, so that the 1 March payment would be collected. Unfortunately something 
went wrong and the payment wasnt collected.  Mr J noticed this in time and made a manual  
payment to Sainsburys thereby preventing any additional charges  or interest  being  added to 
his account.
When Mr J made enquiries as to what had gone  wrong Sainsburys told him that there  had 
been a problem at their end and it was a known fault. As a result they apologised and 
offered Mr J compensation of £40.
Mr J was unhappy with Sainsburys response  and so an adjudicator from this service  looked  
into the complaint.  He recognised that Sainsburys had provided poor service but felt that in 
all the circumstances  the level of recompense offered to Mr J was fair and reasonable. As 
Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. What I need to decide is whether  Sainsburys 
acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr J. My aim is to ensure that a fair and 
reasonable outcome has been achieved,  which  means  taking into account both Sainsburys 
view and that of Mr J. I do not perform the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have 
the power to make  rules for financial businesses, punish them, or direct that they change 
their processes. That falls under the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority. Equally we are 
not a court  service. 
What happened  here is unfortunate,  and had it not been for Mr J noticing in time that the 
direct debit had not gone through, he would probably have incurred late fee charges and 
interest. However he was able to make a manual  payment  in time and thankfully additional 
charges and interest were avoided. But Mr J was entitled to expect  better service from 
Sainsburys, a fact which has been  acknowledged  by them and through  the apology and 
offer of compensation.
The issue  for me is what the right level of compensation ought to be. Mr J has rightly  
questioned how Sainsburys  arrived  at their offer. There is no set figure or table of awards to 
turn to, and given  that each case is different, and very few circumstances are ever the same,  
it is often more a matter of art than science in arriving at a figure for compensation. I look at 
all the circumstances  of the case and decide  what feels fair and reasonable when set 
Ref: DRN29156642against the effect upon the complainant  of any particular service failure. I also take into 
account awards made in other  cases  of a similar nature. 
In this case I have, amongst the wider circumstances,  taken into account that Mr J had to 
make calls to his own bank to see if he could find out what the problem was and that he also 
cancelled his direct  debit and would need to set that up again. I accept that there would  be a 
certain amount  of frustration and annoyance caused  to Mr J. I have also noted his comment 
regarding the Sainsburys advisor saying that the amount  of the compensation offered was 
in her head when  she came on the phone. 
So, I have thought about the £40 offered to Mr J and I do think  it is reasonable. It is in line 
with the awards  this service would make for distress and inconvenience in circumstances 
like this, and I think it is fair, and enough  to put matters right.
I know Mr J will be disappointed  with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  as 
the adjudicator  and for similar  reasons.
my final decision
Sainsburys has already  made an offer to pay £40 to settle  the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Sainsburys Bank  Plc should  pay £40.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2915664