K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that CIS General Insurance Limited declined his claim on his motor  
insurance policy following  the theft of his car. He wants it to pay the claim.
background
Mr As car was stolen  by someone pretending to be a potential buyer. CIS declined  the theft 
claim as it said it was theft by deception and this was excluded from cover by Mr As policys 
terms and conditions. 
our adjudicators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Mr A had 
taken reasonable  steps to check that the potential buyer was legitimate.  He thought Mr A 
had only allowed the thief to drive  his car after rapport  was established and Mr A intended to 
accompany him. So he thought Mr A hadnt acted carelessly or unreasonably or been  tricked 
into freely  handing  over control  of the car to a thief.  And so the investigator thought CIS 
should pay the claim, adding interest from the date of the claim to the date of the settlement. 
CIS replied that the thief had tricked Mr A into letting  him drive and this was what its 
exclusion covered.  It said Mr A did recognise the risk of theft, but it thought  he could have  
taken more care to avoid  being tricked.
Mr A replied  that hed arranged to meet the potential buyer  at a public space with CCTV 
cameras and passers-by  to make the purchase secure. He said he wasnt made  aware of 
the exclusion. He said he hadnt  acted recklessly. He said hed never  intended to let the thief 
drive without him and hadnt voluntarily handed over the keys.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to CIS on 21 February 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
The circumstances of the theft were  initially described by Mr A to its external investigator. I 
also listened to the call Mr A made to CIS to report the claim. He said he advertised  the car 
nationally and was contacted by a potential buyer. They arranged to meet at a railway 
station. The buyer asked  about the car and built up rapport with Mr A. He asked for the 
engine to be turned on and then wanted to check the steering. He then asked to go for a test 
drive. Mr A left the keys in the ignition  whilst he walked around  to the passenger  seat and 
the thief drove off.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  I could see that Mr As policy 
contains in the section  on theft claims an exclusion that is:
Loss or damage to the car and/or its contents  as a result of someone taking it by fraud or 
trickery while pretending to be a buyer.
Ref: DRN26717652I thought this was a common exclusion  in motor insurance policies. But it is significant and 
so I thought CIS should reasonably have drawn  Mr As attention to it when he purchased  his 
policy. I could see that the exclusion is also set out in the Significant Exclusions to Your  
Policy section at the front of the policy booklet. So I thought CIS sufficiently brought  this to 
Mr As attention. And so I thought it was reasonable for CIS to rely on it.
Our approach is that a strict and literal application  of this exclusion could potentially  have 
unduly harsh outcomes for consumers. So we consider whether the consumer took 
reasonable steps to check that they were dealing with a potential buyer before handing over 
control of the car. And we also consider whether the consumer acted recklessly,  that is, he 
recognised a risk and then courted it. 
Mr A said hed arranged  to meet the buyer  in the station  car park.  He later said this was 
because of the CCTV cameras and people about.  So I think he recognised the risk of 
potential theft and took this step to deter  it. 
Our investigator thought that as Mr A and the buyer had built up rapport and the buyer 
seemed genuine,  then Mr A hadnt acted  carelessly.  But I didnt agree. 
Mr A said hed asked to see the potential buyers insurance certificate, to make sure he was 
covered to drive  other cars, and his driving  licence. But Mr A only told us this a month after 
he brought his complaint to us. He didnt raise this with CIS external investigators who 
called him to discuss the claim  a week after the theft. 
I found it concerning  that Mr A didnt recall  the thiefs name although  he said hed seen these 
documents, presumably to check his identity. Mr A had his phone with him at the time. I 
thought he could have taken a photograph of the details  on the licence and insurance as a 
deterrent. I knew that his phone  was stolen with the car. But Mr A didnt tell us hed taken 
this step. 
I thought Mr A was tricked into handing  over control  of his car to the thief. Mr A said he left 
the key in the ignition with the thief in the drivers  seat whilst he walked around to the 
passengers side of the car. I thought Mr A could  have  taken  the key from the ignition before 
moving around to the passengers side of the car. 
So I wasnt  persuaded that Mr A took reasonable steps to ensure he was dealing  with a 
genuine buyer. I thought he recognised the risk of theft. But I didnt think  he took reasonable 
steps to deter it and so I thought he acted recklessly. In that case, I thought it was fair and 
reasonable for CIS to rely on the policy exclusion to decline the claim.
Subject to any further representations by Mr A or CIS, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to not uphold  this complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A replied  that hed taken reasonable steps to deter a theft. He said hed arranged to meet  
the buyer in a public place and had stayed close to the car. He didnt have any suspicion 
that the buyer wasnt genuine. 
Ref: DRN26717653Mr A said he hadnt told CIS investigators that hed seen  the thiefs  licence and insurance 
documents as he didnt  realise the significance of this. He thought these may have been 
false, so photographing them wouldnt have been  a deterrent. He didnt think  it was 
unreasonable that he couldnt recall the thiefs name. 
I can understand that CIS decision has had a significant financial  impact on Mr A. But his 
further explanations havent changed my provisional decision.  
I think Mr A has agreed that he was aware  of the risk of theft.  Mr A said he told the police 
that he recalled the buyers insurers name.  But without hard evidence, I cant say for 
certain whether  or not Mr A did check the buyers  driving licence and insurance documents. 
But I think I need to rely on his report closest  to the event, which  is what  he told CIS 
investigator. And in this report he didnt say that hed checked these documents.
Mr A said the police told him these documents may have been forged. But we think  asking to 
see these documents  is a reasonable step to take to deter potential thieves. And so I havent  
sufficient evidence to show that Mr A took reasonable steps to check  that he was dealing 
with a genuine buyer. 
I think Mr As also agreed that he was tricked into handing over control  of the car. This was 
when Mr A left the key in the cars ignition with the buyer in the drivers seat whilst he 
walked around  to the passenger side. I think this was reckless as Mr A was aware of the 
potential theft but didnt  take reasonable steps to deter it by removing the key.  
And so I think it was fair and reasonable for CIS to rely on the policy exclusion to decline the 
claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2671765