K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about the standard of car repair and delay she says the approved  
repairer (AR) caused. Mrs H made a claim under her car insurance policy to Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited. 
background
Mrs H was involved in an incident in December 2018 and a door to her car was damaged. 
She made a claim to her insurer, Markerstudy.  Her car was driveable.  
Markerstudy arranged  for Mrs Hs car to be inspected by an AR and her car went  in for 
repairs on 4 February 2019.  It was returned to Mrs H on 13 February 2019. 
Mrs H complained to Markerstudy,  She said it had taken too long to repair her car. She had 
to use taxis and public  transport for longer than she expected. Mrs H said that when her car 
was returned to her, it cut out shortly after driving and had an engine management light. She 
said there was a part for her car left in the boot. 
Mrs H took her car to a dealership garage. She paid for a replacement EGR valve.  
Markerstudy didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. It said the ARs repair works were only to the 
bodywork of the car. Mrs H signed  a disclaimer when her car was returned to her confirming 
existing engine faults and a recall  alert by the manufacturer.  
Mrs H remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at her complaint. Our investigator  thought  
Markerstudy had acted reasonably. 
Mrs H didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Hs car was with the AR to carry out bodywork repairs. From the job sheet provided, 
there isnt anything to show  that the AR is responsible for the engine related problems Mrs H 
had with her car after it was returned to her. The return sheet is signed by Mrs H which listed 
existing engine fault warnings and a manufacturer recall. 
Mrs Hs car was with the AR for repairs from 4 February to 13 February 2019. During this 
time Mrs H was offered  the use of a courtesy car. So I cant  ask Markerstudy  to consider 
Mrs Hs claim for travel costs while her car was in for repair. And I dont think the overall time 
she was without her car was unreasonable. 
I dont think Markerstudy is responsible for the subsequent repairs Mrs H paid for. Mrs H 
signed a disclaimer  form which  recorded existing engine faults with her car. There  isnt 
anything to show the issues were related to the repairs  carried  out by the AR. Mrs H sent a 
photo of the bracket part in her boot to the AR. But this isnt enough for me to safely  
conclude that the AR caused  further damage  to her car.
Ref: DRN27804992From what  Ive seen, I think Markerstudy dealt  with Mrs Hs claim in a fair and reasonable 
way. It carried out incident  related repairs in a reasonable period of time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2780499