K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about how MBNA Limited dealt with a missed credit card payment
background
Mr H says he had a promotional rate on his MBNA  credit card account  which  would have 
expired at the end of 2019.  He says that he received  a message from MBNA on 
10 January 2019  telling him that he needed to make  a payment to bring his account up to 
date. Mr H says he tried to use his login details to view his account but was unable to do so. 
And he spoke to MBNA the next day and says he was given conflicting information about a 
grace period when  a payment is missed as happened here.
Mr H says MBNA removed the promotional  offer as his direct debit payment didnt go 
through. But should have  been told what had taken  place so he could have made  the 
payment as he had enough money  in other  accounts. Mr H also says he was unable to view 
his account statements as MBNA had deleted his online access. He would like his 
promotional offer reinstated and interest refunded.
MBNA says the direct debit payment failed on 2 January  2019  and in line with the account 
terms and conditions correctly removed the promotional offer.  It says it cant  explain why 
Mr H could not log in to his account but says it was Mr Hs responsibility  to make sure the 
monthly payment  was made. It also says those terms  and conditions  also state that it is 
Mr Hs responsibility to check account statements and contact it where there  are access  
problems. 
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator  thought 
the direct  debit payment had failed and didnt expect MBNA  to tell Mr H at that stage that, as 
it was his responsibility to make the payment. The adjudicator thought  MBNA had acted in 
line with the account terms and conditions  in those circumstances by removing the 
promotional offer. And any grace  period would have expired in any event by the time Mr H 
either called MBNA or tried to log into his account.
Mr H didnt accept that view and says he tried to log in on multiple occasions and believes 
the account block was the reason he didnt receive contact from MBNA. He says that view is 
supported as in April 2019 a similar problem occurred and he did receive  contact straight 
away from MBNA.  Mr H says he received  conflicting  views from MBNA and says he couldnt 
be expected to estimate his interest  payment.
The adjudicator issued a second  view and thought  Mr H hadnt mentioned the log in problem 
until the end of January 2019 and that the account  terms  and conditions  said Mr H ought to 
have contacted MBNA if there were  problems accessing the statements.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and in summary says he could have made  the payment if told 
about it. He says as soon  as he received online  access again he received contact from 
MBNA and says the two issues must be linked.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr H will be disappointed  by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Ref: DRN27386262I have looked  at the account terms and conditions which  I think Mr H would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can see that those terms and conditions  make clear 
that in the event of breach  of those, such as a missed monthly payment, then MBNA may 
remove any promotional offer. Im satisfied  that is what took place here that Mr Hs monthly  
direct debit failed as he didnt have enough  money  in his account. So I dont think MBNA 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by removing the promotional  offer in those  circumstances. 
Im also satisfied that its Mr Hs responsibility to make  sure the monthly  payment was made  
and to manage his account.
I appreciate that Mr H may have been  given  inconsistent  information about a grace period in 
which he could have  brought  his account up to date.  But I dont think it matters as I think  the 
payment failed and I dont  think MBNA  were obliged  to tell Mr H immediately.  I appreciate 
that Mr H says a similar  event took place in April 2019 and he received immediate 
notification from MBNA. But Im satisfied that its up to MBNA  to decide how and when it 
communicates with its customers in these circumstances  and that its up to a consumer to 
ensure a payment is made on time.
Mr H says he didnt have  online account  access and so questions  how he could know what  
his monthly payment would be. I can see that the account conditions state in those 
circumstances Mr H is still obliged to make  a payment and contact details are provided. So I 
think that if Mr H was in the habit  of checking his statements to ensure there  was enough 
money in his account and was unable to do so then I would have expected him to have told 
MBNA that and ask it for the monthly payment. I cant  see that Mr H did ask MBNA for the 
January 2019  payment amount in advance of its due date.
I appreciate that Mr H says the account  block must have been linked to MBNAs  failure  to 
contact him shortly after the payment  failed. But I have not seen any evidence  that was the 
case and for the reasons I have explained I find the account terms and conditions  were 
breached at the point the payment was due and not made. I also think if there is a grace 
period in which MBNA would not end a promotional offer- that would  be for MBNA to decide 
upon when exercising its commercial judgement when deciding on the particular  
circumstances of a case. I m satisfied such a grace period would be commercially  sensitive 
and not something  I can fairly order MBNA to provide details of.
Overall Im satisfied that MBNA was entitled  to end the promotional offer on Mr Hs credit 
card. I appreciate  that there may be unanswered  questions  about why a block was placed on 
Mr Hs online access and what Mr H was told about  any grace period. But for the reasons I 
have explained  Im satisfied those issues dont  affect MBNAs  entitlement  to end the offer 
where a payment wasnt made on time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Ref: DRN27386263David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2738626