K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about four instalment  loans that she took out with Gain  Credit  LLC, trading 
as Lending Stream,  (LS). She said, in summary,  that LS shouldnt have given her the loans 
as they were unaffordable.
background
Miss S took out four instalment loans with LS between March  2017 and August 2017. The 
loans were all repayable by six monthly instalments and have all been repaid. A summary of 
the loans is shown below:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 1/3/17 31/8/17 £600
2. 9/4/18 28/9/18 £300
3. 3/10/18 23/2/19 £500
4. 8/2/19 22/2/19 £450
LS said that it had carried out proper and proportionate affordability checks at the time that 
each loan was approved.  It had asked Miss S for her income and expenditure and 
had carried out creditworthiness  checks.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Miss Ss complaint should be upheld.
Miss S disagreed and responded to say that LS should have asked to see her credit report 
which would have highlighted  the 40 other payday  loans shed taken out over the previous 
three to four years without  a break  in borrowing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Im sorry  to hear that Miss S was struggling financially and that repaying the loans may have 
been difficult. 
When LS lent to Miss S the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
LS needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss S could  repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ss 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors  include:
Ref: DRN24978352the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LS was required to establish  whether 
Miss S could sustainably  repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because CONC defines  sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
There were two chains of lending. One started  at Loan 1 and the other, because of a 
significant gap between Loans 1 and 2, started at Loan 2. So it was reasonable for LS to 
treat Miss S as a new customer  at Loan 2 and base its checks accordingly.
As I mentioned above, each of Miss Ss loans  was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that Miss S needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course she was committing to making those repayments over a far 
longer period. 
At the time of Loan 4, Miss S had two loans  outstanding together. So Ive had to consider the 
total amount that Miss S needed  to repay  to LS each month.
 
LS did a number  of checks before  it lent to Miss S. It asked her for details of her income and 
expenditure. Miss S declared her monthly income as between  £2,100  and £2,500 and her 
monthly expenditure as between £1,250 and £1,400. LS said that it had revised Miss Ss 
declared expenditure upwards before Loans  1 and 3 to reflect  statistical  expenditure figures.
LS also said that it checked Miss Ss creditworthiness before Loans 1 to 3 and a third party 
credit reference agency confirmed  a rating  which was satisfactory  for the loan obligations. 
Before Loans  2 and 3, LS said that it had checked  Miss Ss other  credit  obligations and 
Ref: DRN24978353these met reasonable affordability  criteria.  Weve not received any other information about  
LSs credit checks  other  than credit scores. 
I note that Miss S said that LS should  have asked to see her credit report. Weve received a 
credit report  from Miss S. It showed she had other short term loans. But Im aware that when 
a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees  doesnt  usually  provide  the same  
level of detail that a consumers credit  search will and it isnt necessarily up to date.  A lender 
might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might  be missing  or 
anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday  and short term lenders report  to the same 
credit reference agencies. So, Miss Ss other short  term loans may not have  been  identified 
by LSs credit check. This might explain any differences between  the information  seen by LS 
in its credit check and Miss Ss actual situation.
Miss S applied to borrow £1,000 on Loan  1 but LS provided her with a loan for the lower  
amount of £600.  Miss S needed to make  six monthly loan repayments of up to £254.40 to LS 
for Loan 1. I dont  think the repayment amounts  were so large that its obvious  they wouldve 
caused Miss S financial difficulty. And I dont think at that stage of its relationship with Miss S 
that LS had any reason  to doubt  the information  shed provided.  I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for LS to rely on Miss Ss declared  disposable income of £1,000. 
Given Miss Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about  her circumstances at the 
time, and that this was her first loan with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for LS to ask her for the amount of information that would be needed  to show  
Loan 1 was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss S provided before Loan 1 or the 
information LS shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I dont think LS was wrong to give Loan  1 to Miss S. 
I note that there was a gap of over seven months between  Miss S repaying Loan 1 and 
asking to borrow again. Miss S repaid Loan  1 on the due date. I think the gap between 
Loans 1 and 2 was sufficient for LS to look at Miss Ss application for Loan 2 afresh  and 
effectively treat her as a new customer.
Loan 2 was for the lower  amount of £300. Miss S needed to make six monthly loan 
repayments of up to £134.40  to LS for Loan  2. Miss S told LS that her monthly income was 
still £2,300 and her regular  expenditure  had increased to £1,400. So she had a disposable 
income of £900.  I dont  think  the repayment  amounts were so large that its obvious they 
wouldve caused Miss S financial  difficulty. And I dont think  at that stage of its relationship 
with Miss S that LS had any reason to doubt the information shed provided. 
Given Miss Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about  her circumstances at the 
time, and her history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for LS to ask 
her for the amount  of information that would be needed to show Loan 2 was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss S provided before Loan 2 or the 
information LS shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I dont think LS was wrong to give Loan  2 to Miss S. 
Miss S repaid Loan 2 on the due date and she borrowed Loan 3 just five days later. The loan 
amount had increased to £500, and the highest  repayment was £164.84. But as the 
Ref: DRN24978354repayments were again  relatively modest  compared  to Miss Ss declared disposable income 
of £1,250, I dont  think  its obvious they wouldve caused Miss S financial difficulty.
Given Miss Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about  her circumstances at the 
time, and her history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for LS to ask 
her for the amount  of information that would be needed to show Loan 3 was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss S provided before Loan 3 or the 
information LS shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I dont think LS was wrong to give Loan  3 to Miss S. 
Miss S still had two repayments to make  on Loan 3 when she took out Loan  4. I think  that 
behaviour might have  caused some concerns to LS about Miss Ss finances but her 
repayments were up to date at that point. So, there was nothing to alert LS to the possibility 
that Miss S was having  difficulties  managing her money. The amount  she asked to borrow  
had reduced to £450 and the six monthly repayments on Loan 4 were  up to £140.77.  The 
total repayments for Loans 3 and 4 were around  £305. I think these were  still relatively  
modest compared to Miss Ss declared  disposable  income of £750.  So again  I dont think its 
obvious they wouldve caused  Miss S financial difficulty.
Given Miss Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about  her circumstances at the 
time, and her history  with the lender, again I dont think  it wouldve been proportionate for LS 
to ask her for the amount of information  that would be needed to show  Loan  4 was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss S provided before Loan 4 or the 
information LS shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I dont think LS acted unfairly in giving Loan  4 to Miss S.
I note that Miss Ss actual circumstances may not have been reflected  either  in the 
information she declared to LS, or the other information LS obtained. I can see from the 
credit report  that she provided  to this service that she had other  short term loans. But LS 
could only make its lending decisions based  on the information it had available  at the time.  
And, as Ive said above, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve extended as far as LS 
asking Miss S to verify the information  shed declared to it. I think LS carried out 
proportionate checks before all the loans even though its looks like the information  it 
mightve been provided with may have  been inaccurate.  It appears  that LS reasonably  relied 
on the information it had received and given the amount of the repayments involved and the 
overall circumstances  of Miss Ss loan history, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for LS to 
give Loans 1 to 4 to Miss S.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss S and I dont  doubt that she was struggling financially at the 
relevant times but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that LS acted unfairly  in 
lending to her. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Ref: DRN24978355Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2497835