K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited wasnt of the correct specification and that hes been paying  for a 
higher specification car. Hes also complained about the customer service  that hes received 
from the dealer.
background 
A new car was supplied  to Mr R under  a hire purchase agreement with PSA Finance that he 
signed in March 2018. The order form specified  that parking  sensors would be fitted  by the 
dealer and the price of the car included £250 (plus VAT)  for them.  But when the car was 
supplied to Mr R it didnt  have those sensors. Mr R complained to the dealer and it said that 
it would  fit them  but when Mr R arrived at the agreed time the dealer was unable  to do so. 
Mr R complained to PSA Finance,  but wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that the dealer 
had agreed to fit the sensors and to provide Mr R with a courtesy  car  and he thought that it 
was fair for that work to be carried out. But he also thought that it would be fair and 
reasonable for PSA Finance to pay £100 compensation to Mr R to reflect the inconvenience 
that the lack of customer service had caused him. 
PSA Finance has accepted the investigators  recommendations but Mr R has asked  for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says,  in summary, that:
PSA Finance  has breached  the contract so the agreement isnt legal and the car 
should be returned to the dealer and the payments stopped;
it hasnt made reasonable attempts to resolve  the issue;
the cost of the parking  sensors has made his monthly payments higher and hes 
been paying for the parking sensors;
the agreement  has a 14 day cancellation period so, if the parking sensors are fitted, 
that would  make  the agreement legal and he would then activate his cancellation 
rights; 
£100 isnt reasonable compensation for all of the issues that hes encountered; and
it would  be fair and reasonable for the car to be returned, the payments  to be 
stopped and PSA Finance to pay some compensation  for the issues and problems 
hes faced.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to PSA Finance on 22 July 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Its clear  from the order  form  that Mr R signed  at the same  time as he signed the 
hire purchase agreement  that the car was ordered  with parking sensors as a 
dealer-fitted accessory. The price of the car was £13,265 which included £250  (plus 
VAT) for the parking sensors.  But the car that was supplied  to Mr R doesnt have 
parking sensors.  And thats a breach of contract  for which  PSA Finance  as the 
supplier of the car  is liable.
Ref: DRN25172342The dealer  has agreed to fit the parking sensors  and to provide  Mr R with a courtesy 
car. But Mr R says that when he took the car to the dealer for the sensors  to be fitted, 
the dealer hadnt allocated enough  time for the work so Mr R had a wasted round trip 
journey of about four hours. That will have  caused  considerable  distress  and 
inconvenience for Mr R.
Mr R has been making  monthly payments of £259.43 for the car  which includes a 
small amount for the parking sensors.  But the parking sensors havent been supplied  
to him so hes been paying for something  that he hasnt  received. And he hasnt had 
the benefit of the parking  sensors that hed ordered since the car was supplied to him 
- which is now about 15 months  ago. That will have caused further  distress  and 
inconvenience to Mr R.
I consider that it would be an appropriate  remedy for the breach of contract for the 
dealer to fit the parking  sensors. But I consider that it would be fair and reasonable 
for PSA Finance  to arrange for the car to be collected from Mr R, taken to the dealer 
for the sensors to be fitted and then returned  to Mr R  and I consider  that it should  
also arrange for a courtesy car to be delivered  to Mr R for him to use for the time that 
hes without his own car. And I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for it to 
pay £500 to Mr R to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
But Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for 
Mr R to reject the car. And although  there  has been a breach of contract, the 
agreement remains legally binding and Mr R has no further right to cancel the 
agreement.
So subject to any further representations by Mr R or PSA Finance, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part.
PSA Finance has accepted my provisional decision but Mr R says that the dealer has had 
more than enough time and opportunity to put the matter right but has failed to do so and 
hasnt treated him fairly.  And he says that as a minimum he should receive a refund of three  
monthly payments.  He also says that hed like PSA Finance  to make a reasonable 
settlement offer for him to return the car and cancel his agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. I consider that the outcome set out in my 
provisional decision is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. And Im not persuaded 
that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require PSA Finance to increase the amount of 
compensation to be paid to Mr R or to require  it to allow him to return  the car. 
Ref: DRN25172343my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part. And I 
order PSA Finance UK Limited to:
1.Arrange and pay for the car to be collected  from Mr R, taken to the dealer for the 
sensors to be fitted and then returned  to Mr R.
2.Arrange and pay for a courtesy  car to be delivered to Mr R for him to use for the time 
that hes without  his own car.
3.Pay £500 to Mr R to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2517234