K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that John  Lewis  Plc didnt ask a clear question on its online
application form when  Mrs O applied  for a car insurance policy  on behalf of Mr O. This led to
the cancellation of Mr Os car insurance policy.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within my Provisional  Decision. In summary John 
Lewis  as Mr Os broker  cancelled  a car insurance policy because the insurer discovered 
Mr Os claims history was different to the history Mrs O gave. If it had known the correct 
claims history, the insurer wouldnt have  offered  Mr O a policy. 
Mrs O said the key question John Lewis asked wasnt  clear.  So Mr and Mrs O thought John 
Lewis was responsible for the cancellation of the policy.
John Lewis  accepted it had caused some confusion in a call and an agent had made an 
error  but that ultimately this didnt change the outcome. For the error, it paid Mr and Mrs O 
£20 compensation.  It didnt charge  its cancellation  fee of £40 and it refunded the fee Mr O 
paid for additional products. So Mr O only paid for the days  he was insured. This was at a 
lower rate as it was based on incorrect claims history.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
I thought the question  John Lewis asked was clear enough. John  Lewis provided a 
screenshot of the question and this showed  additional information  was available on screen 
to help Mrs O in answering it. 
Mrs O had declared three non fault claims online when in fact they were  all fault claims. The 
error the agent  made was in recording the claims in the same way  even  though Mrs O told 
her one in a call that one of the claims might  be a fault claim. But because  the underwriter  
told John Lewis that it doesnt offer cover for two or more fault claims, I didnt think  the 
agents error made a difference. Even if shed recorded two fault claims, the policy  would 
have been accepted  but later cancelled. 
said John Lewis had made some administration errors.  I addressed these in my provisional 
decision. But I thought its decision to waive its cancellation charge, refund in full the 
additional products Mr O paid for which werent refundable otherwise  and pay £20 for the 
inconvenience it caused  was enough to put things right overall. It incorrectly  said the policy  
had been avoided from the outset   but the policy had been  cancelled in February 2018 and 
no record of the cancellation has been  made.  So Mr O doesnt need to declare  it to future 
insurers.
Mrs O didnt agree. In summary she said:
The error the agent made during the call in October  2017  was significant. John 
Lewis misled her into believing the NCD was protected and they wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known it wasnt.
She doesnt accept  the evidence John Lewis provided showing the key question.  
She says the additional help wasnt on screen.
John Lewis delayed  sending  the policy documents. When  they got them,  John 
Lewis didnt confirm  their claims history so they couldnt check if it was correct.
Ref: DRN26690232The manager at John Lewis supported Mrs Os account that the question wasnt 
clear. 
John Lewis  told us it failed to send Mr O a Statement of Insurance document  when it sent 
the policy. The Statement showed  the claims history as the agent  recorded. But John  Lewis 
doesnt believe its error made a difference. Mrs O carried out a quote  using  the incorrect 
claims history  a week after she discussed  her complaint about the cancellation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
John Lewis  has done enough to put things right. Ill explain  why. 
When Mrs O applied for the policy online,  she declared three claims as follows:
Non fault claim May 2015 
Non fault claim August  2017 
Non fault claim October 2017. 
Mr Os previous insurer wrote in January 2018  that the October  2017  claim was a non fault 
claim. But a few days later it was settled as a fault claim on the Central Underwriting 
Exchange database (CUE). This means the correct  claims history was three fault claims in 
the previous three years. 
Mrs O spoke to John  Lewis on 24 October 2017  as she was having trouble buying the policy  
online. She described the October  2017 claim as a vandalism claim and asked the agent 
whether she would be able to protect Mr Os NCD. Mrs O also said that she wasnt  sure if 
the August  2017 claim was a fault or non fault claim. 
The agent  told Mrs O that the October 2017  would be a fault claim. But she set up the policy  
recording all three claims  as non fault claims. This was how Mrs O had applied for the policy  
online  but this wasnt consistent  with what the agent said. So John Lewis accepts that the 
agent didnt handle this call well and apologised to Mrs O. But it said that its error didnt 
affect the outcome. The underwriter would have  provided insurance and protected  Mr Os 
NCD with a history of two fault claims  but not three. So even  if the agent had correctly  
recorded the August 2017 and October 2017 claims as fault  the policy  would have been 
accepted in October 2017  but later cancelled when Mr Os previous insurer provided proof 
of his NCD history in January 2018. This is because Mrs O had incorrectly declared  the May 
2015 claim as non fault too.
Mrs O said that she found  out that Mr O wouldnt  have  been offered an insurance  policy  with 
protected NCD because  of the claims history. So I cant conclude that John Lewis  error 
more likely than not prevented Mr O from buying  a policy elsewhere which  protected his 
NCD. 
Mrs O asked John Lewis what would happen to the NCD if they were to make a further claim 
after the policy started.  She said; because there  would be no point in me taking it (the 
policy) out if we are not protected.
I dont think the agent  answered  Mrs Os question here. But I cant  say that it would have 
made a difference to setting up the policy. This is because any future  incident  would only 
Ref: DRN26690233potentially affect  the policy at renewal  in October  2018. It had no bearing  on the set up of the 
policy in October 2017. 
Theres no dispute that John Lewis changed the wording of the question after Mrs O applied
for Mr Os policy in October 2017,  but it still related to the NCD. Ive looked at whether the 
information available on screen at the time was clear enough. 
John Lewis  has confirmed  that it  not the insurer - asked  the key question Mrs O answered
on its online application in October  2017.  Its provided a screenshot of the key question  
Mrs O answered.  
Mrs O has asked if I can insist John Lewis provide a copy  of her actual online journey. But I 
cant ask for something John Lewis says it doesnt  have.
Mrs O was asked to provide details  of each incident  including the date and a description. 
Then John  Lewis  asked the following  question:
Was the No Claims Discount (NCD) affected  when this claim was made? The option for
Mrs O was to answer Yes or No. The additional information on screen read as follows:
Please answer Yes if
The claim is still pending
You or your named  drivers NCD would have been affected had it not been
protected
You or your named  driver(s)  had to pay your excess as part of the claim
You or your named  driver(s) insurance  company paid any part towards the
claim.
Mrs O said the Please  answer Yes information wasnt  readily  available on screen. She said
that because Mr O had protected his NCD, she understood that it hadnt been affected by 
the claims made in the previous three  years. So she answered no to this question.
I understand that Mrs O strongly believes her online journey wasnt as John Lewis has 
presented. She feels the question wasnt clear enough  and this is why John  Lewis 
changed the question in January 2018.  Mrs O has expanded on the transcript  of the call she 
had with a manager at John Lewis on 1 February  2018. Mrs O has highlighted key parts of 
the transcript where the manager referred  to the help text and that customers  might not 
always see it. She said this demonstrates that the question online wasnt  sufficiently clear. 
The screenshot evidence provided  by John Lewis shows the additional  information  was 
available on screen  and on balance I think Mrs O didnt take enough  care when answering 
this question. Mr O had two previous fault claims and an ongoing third claim at the time. So 
Mr Os NCD would have been  affected had it not been protected.  Its not clear to me why 
Mrs O believed her husbands NCD was protected. And from the call on 24 October  2017,  it 
seems Mrs O wasnt sure if the August 2017 claim was a fault claim. But she had recorded  it 
online as a non fault claim. So I therefore  think the key question John Lewis asked was clear 
enough with the additional information available on screen. It isnt unusual for businesses to 
update or change questions from time to time.
John Lewis  provided  a copy of an email it received  from the underwriter  of Mr Os policy in 
June 2018. The underwriter said it would have declined cover  as there were three fault 
claims: it would have regarded a vandalism  claim as a fault claim anyway. So I think  John 
Ref: DRN26690234Lewis has provided enough information  to show that the decision to cancel Mr Os policy  
was a reasonable one.
John Lewis  told us it didnt send out Mr Os policy documents  on time because  of an internal 
error. When it sent the document  pack out on 11 December 2017, it failed to include Mr Os 
Statement of Insurance which set out the claims history. Its provided us with a copy of the 
Statement. It shows the three claims all recorded  as non fault.
But it doesnt believe  even if it had sent the Statement with the policy  promptly - that
Mr and Mrs O wouldve  contacted them to correct the claims history.  Its provided  a copy  of a 
quote Mrs O obtained  online  a week after she discussed the claims history with John Lewis.  
This shows Mr Os claims history was input as having  two non fault claims  from May 2015 
and August 2017. The October 2017  claim wasnt added. 
We sent Mrs O a copy of the quote  from 7 February  2018 and a screenshot  of the key 
question on John Lewis website asked 1: when Mrs O applied, 2: after 28 January 2018 and 
3: how it currently appears.
Mrs O says the screenshot shows that for 1: there is a red asterix  which  indicates a required 
field. She says there was a more information section here when she applied  for the policy. 
However, I think theres been some confusion. The red asterix highlights  all parts  of the 
application which requires  an answer   this is what the required  field  means. 
Mrs O said the quote  she carried out on 7 February  2018 wasnt to apply for a policy.  She 
said shed applied for a policy with another  insurer  a few days before. From  memory,  she 
said she was checking if John Lewis had changed the key question.
I think John Lewis failed  to provide  Mr O with the correct policy documents  in a timely 
manner. And when it did provide them, important information was missing.  This is poor 
service. But the heart of the issue is whether John Lewis  is responsible for the incorrect  set 
up of the policy and its subsequent cancellation. I think the quote dated  7 February 2018 
indicates that  even  if John Lewis had included the Statement of Insurance  with the policy  
documents  it was unlikely to have made a difference. Its possible that the incorrect  claims 
history might  have been discovered sooner than January 2018. But I think the outcome 
would still have been the same. 
As Mr Os policy was cancelled after the cooling off period, John Lewis  was entitled to 
charge a £40 cancellation  fee  and to retain the additional product fees. John  Lewis said 
Mr and Mrs O paid a lower  premium for the days of insurance cover because  of the incorrect 
claims history. 
Mrs O has asked why they would pay more for an insurance premium if it didnt protect 
Mr Os NCD. The reason  is because  a customer who has protected  NCD benefits from a 
lower premium. And the reason why they have  protected  NCD is due to the low number  or 
lack of claims recorded over a number of years. As Mrs O said,  Mr Os claims history  meant  
he couldnt benefit from protecting his NCD  and so he shouldnt have benefitted from the 
reduced premium they paid in October  2017.  
So Mr O only paid for the days he was insured  and at a lower rate. And John  Lewis paid 
£20 compensation  for the confusion it caused  in incorrectly setting up the policy. 
Ref: DRN26690235In my provisional decision,  I said it was clear John Lewis  made some administration errors. 
But I think the screenshot shows there  was an explanation on screen to help Mrs O answer  
the question about their claims  history correctly. I dont think  there  was anything deliberate or 
reckless about Mrs Os actions. But I think she answered the question without reasonable 
care. 
The crux of Mr and Mrs Os complaint  is whether John Lewis asked a clear question  and 
whether it reasonably cancelled Mr Os policy. My view is that John Lewis  did so in both 
cases. I think John  Lewiss failings ultimately  didnt  affect the outcome. 
So my view remains that I think John  Lewis has done enough to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2669023