K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  Aviva  Life and Pensions UK Limited  wont honour the 2.5% escalation to his 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP).  
Mr Ls pension was originally with a predecessor business of Aviva, but for ease of reading 
Ill refer to Aviva in the decision. 
background
Mr L has a section 32 Buy-Out plan with Aviva  which from age 65 provides him with a 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension of at least £6,721 a year. The paperwork  also says it will 
increase by 2.50% each year from July 2020.
In 2019 as Mr L was due to start taking  his pension benefits Aviva sent him a pack 
confirming the amount  hed receive  and explained the value of his fund was currently 
insufficient to cover  the cost of providing  the GMP, but that as this is a guaranteed benefit  
Aviva would make up the shortfall. But it made  no mention  of the 2.5% annual  escalation. 
When Mr L challenged this he was told the escalation didnt apply as per the policy 
wording. Mr L cant see anything in the policy wording which  explained why he wouldnt 
receive the escalation  and feels hes been misled. So he complained.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint, explaining his GMP is underfunded, so the fund cant  
support the annual  increase, and this is explained  in section 7 of the terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with this, Mr L brought  his complaint to this service and one of our investigators 
looked into it. He understood why the underfunded GMP  would mean  Mr Ls fund couldnt 
support an annual increase of 2.5% and confirmed the terms and conditions did cover  this. 
But he thought  Avivas communications with Mr L over the years had been misleading  as 
they all referred to the escalation and didnt suggest the performance of the fund might mean 
he wouldnt  receive it. So he thought Aviva should  pay Mr L £300 for the loss of expectation.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators  view as he didnt think  the policy  terms were  clear at all 
and calculated the escalation equates to around  £30,000 of additional income,  so £300 is 
completely inadequate. And Aviva  didnt think any compensation  was due, as the escalation 
was never  guaranteed, and its communications  met the regulators requirements. So its 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.  Let me explain why. 
Firstly I agree with Mr L the information hes received from Aviva over the years does say his 
pension will increase  by 2.5% every  year starting  in 2020, so I understand why thats what  
he expected. But Mr Ls pension comes with a valuable  benefit in the GMP, this is because  
its a Section 32 transfer which  means Aviva is obliged  to provide the same pension  hed 
have received from his previous occupational scheme, regardless of the fund performance. 
This is explained in Section 7 of the policy terms which says Aviva  must provide Mr L with an 
annuity which  shall not be less than the Guaranteed  Minimum Pension . So this means 
Aviva is obliged to honour the commitment to provide the GMP even  when the underlying 
value of the plan is not sufficient to pay for it, so Aviva effectively tops it up. 
Ref: DRN26279862I dont have copies  of all the statements Mr L received over the years. The earliest statement 
Ive seen referring to the 2.5%  escalation  is from 1997 and it looks like its been consistent  
since then.
Section 9 of the terms and conditions headed  Increases  in Pension is relevant to the 
escalation and says as follows: 
 The rate of increase  in pensions shall not be such that the pension and Widows
pension which can be purchased by the Capital Sum shall be less than the
Guaranteed Minimum Pension and the Guaranteed Minimum Widows Pension
Respectively. 
I understand Mr Ls point  about the way this is written but having considered the terms 
carefully I agree with Aviva this means  the provision  of the GMP takes precedence and if the 
fund cant meet that obligation it wont pay the escalation.  No doubt when the contract was 
drawn up it was anticipated  the fund would be sufficient to provide for both the GMP and the 
escalation and I understand  Mr Ls disappointment  thats not the case.  
Whether the fund can actually support  the GMP and the escalation  might not be clear until 
the point of Mr L taking  his benefits.  But Aviva would be aware  this was a possibility as 
investment returns are much  lower in recent years than they were in the late 1980s when 
Mr Ls plan started. So I do think the information  Aviva has provided over the years has been  
mis-leading by not explaining payment of the escalation  was conditional and not guaranteed.  
It wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva to make an exception for Mr L and apply the escalation. But
Mr L has suffered a loss of expectation.  So I think it should pay him some  compensation for 
this. Aviva says the information it provides has been agreed by the regulator  and its similar 
to the disappointment  of bonus rates falling just prior to retirement. But in my experience,  
bonus rates  are usually described  as not guaranteed and warnings  to this effect are included  
in annual communications to customers.  Mr L statements  warn  the growth of his plan was 
not guaranteed and the final value of his investment depends on bonuses  added to the plan. 
But the reference to increases to his pension once in payment consistently  says it will 
increase by 2.5% each year  (my emphasis)  with no suggestion this might not happen. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Aviva Life and Pensions Limited should pay Mr L £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2627986