K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2007. Miss C says Canada Square Operations  Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg, but Canada Square  has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so Ill refer to Canada  Square in my 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss C applied for her credit card and PPI online  she say that she was led to believe that 
getting her credit card was dependant on taking out PPI. 
Canada Square  provided information about  its online  sales  process, which  has shown that 
Miss C wouldve been  presented  with two options  - to take PPI or to decline it. Both were  
equally prominent, and Miss C wouldve had to select an option  before she could complete 
her application.  Neither option was presented in a way that would suggest that taking or not 
taking PPI would influence being approved for the credit card,  and I havent seen anything  to 
show that Canada  Square did anything differently with Miss C. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  Canada Square made it clear that Miss C 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she doesnt remember this as it was so long ago.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss C got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Miss C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it could have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Canada  Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because:  
When the policy was sold,  Canada Square  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss C 
about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Miss C, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN29837862To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said including what shes said about  having sick 
pay from her employer  that she couldve used to make her repayments. But the PPI couldve 
paid out on top of, and for longer than Miss C wouldve received full pay for. So this point 
doesnt change  my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think  the PPI was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2983786