K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complained about two instalment loans he took out with Gain Credit LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream). He says Lending  Stream failed to carry out proper affordability checks 
and didnt obtain evidence of income  and expenditure  before providing  him with his loans.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Lending Stream had told us. And he 
thought that the checks Lending  Stream carried out before giving Mr B his loans were  
proportionate. So he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Bs complaint.  
Mr B was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending Stream  
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr B took out a first instalment loan for £200 in December 2017. The loan was to be repaid 
over a period  of around six months and the monthly  repayments were around £70. Mr B 
repaid this loan early  in February 2018. And on the same day took a second loan, this time 
for £400, which was also due to be repaid in around  six months. The monthly  repayments  for 
the second loan were  around £180.  
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Bs application after hed provided  details  of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It says the information Mr B provided on his income and 
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. And in these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand,     
Mr B says Lending Stream shouldve obtained  evidence of his income and expenditure.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr B and Lending Stream  have  said.  The first thing for me 
to say is that these  loans  were Mr Bs first loans with Lending Stream. Mr B did take his 
Ref: DRN27650582second loan on the day he repaid his first one. But at best I can only say that this was an 
emerging pattern  not an established  one. So I dont think  there was any established 
pattern in Ms Bs borrowing needs at this stage.
The information provided does suggest that Mr B was asked to provide details of his income 
and expenditure.  Bearing  in mind the amount of the monthly repayment,  the questions  
Lending Stream asked  Mr B and these were  Mr Bs first loans, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Mr B was providing.
I accept that Mr Bs actual  circumstances  werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other  information Lending Stream obtained. And Im sorry to hear that Mr B 
was struggling financially  and repaying these  loans has proved difficult. But Lending Stream  
could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time. And, at 
this stage of the lending  relationship, I dont think  proportionate checks  wouldve extended 
into Lending Stream asking  Mr B to evidence what he was declaring.  
Equally I can uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did something wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Lending  Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr B 
- it carried  out proportionate check even though  its looks like the information it mightve been 
provided with was inaccurate. Lending Stream  reasonably  relied on the information  provided 
with and given  the amount of the repayments  involved and Mr Bs loan history,  I dont  think  it 
was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt  anything obvious, 
in the information it had, to suggest Mr B wouldnt be able to sustainably  repay these  loans.
So overall I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were proportionate. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for      
Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2765058