K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Mr D had a British Gas policy that covered repairs and an annual service.
Mr D and his partner  were working full-time during weekdays with limited annual leave. So 
he tried to get British  Gas to do the annual  service at a weekend. He complained  about the 
response he got.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He didnt think that 
British Gas had treated  Mr D unfairly. Therefore the adjudicator  was unable to recommend 
that British Gas provide a Saturday appointment.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
Were obviously just letting a huge corporate  organisation bully its customers.
British Gas should be able to supply  staff on weekends to fulfil the boiler service 
requests.
Unlike Mr Ds media provider, British  Gas isnt providing a service  around customer  
needs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D took out the policy in October  2017.  British Gas did a first visit on 23 February  2018   
a Friday. 
The policy renewed  in October 2018.  Ive checked  the renewal letter  and the policy terms. I 
cant see anything about whether annual  services will be on weekdays  or weekends.
I would expect British  Gas to have some  engineers working at weekends. But I would expect  
there to be fewer working  at weekends than during weekdays. 
Annual services are important. But I would  expect British Gas to prioritise  repair  visits to 
customers who have no heating or hot water. That is a particular priority during the colder 
months of the year.
I would expect that when making an appointment British Gas would need a level of 
confidence in the availability of an engineer in a geographical area. I would expect it to 
manage foreseeable absence such as annual leave. 
Ref: DRN25400952In February 2019,  Mr D asked British  Gas to arrange an annual service for a Saturday. 
British Gas said that it couldnt  arrange  a Saturday appointment within its 56- day booking  
calendar. British Gas did offer a two-hour slot during  a weekday.
I accept that Mr D didnt want to use up any of his annual leave. And he didnt see why 
British Gas couldnt book an appointment on more than 56 days  notice. I accept that he has 
had Saturday  visits from his media provider.
But I keep in mind  the fewer British Gas engineers likely to be available  at weekends  and the 
priority of repairs. I also keep in mind  the need to manage foreseeable absence.  I cant  say 
that a 56-day booking calendar is unfair to Mr D. 
So I dont  find that British Gas treated Mr D unfairly. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct it to do any more in response  to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2540095