K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  have handled her claim 
following subsidence at her home.
Ms G has been represented  by a third party for most  of this claim and complaint. However 
for ease  of reading  all references to Ms G also refer to the actions of her representative 
except where referred to directly.
background
Ms G had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by Lloyds. In 2016 she made a 
claim as she noticed cracks  in her property. A contractor was sent out and he said the 
cracks werent caused by subsidence.  Ms G subsequently got a second  opinion from a third 
party who confirmed subsidence at the property.  She complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds appointed a new contractor who also confirmed subsidence and it accepted the 
claim. Further it upheld  her complaint and offered £750 for the poor service  and distress and 
inconvenience this had caused.
Following this, monitoring of the property took place and a number of areas of vegetation 
were identified as the cause  of the subsidence.  These were  located on Ms Gs neighbours 
land. One was a tree that was cut down and wrapped to prevent re-growth. The second  a 
buddleia  was heavily cut back.
Following this Lloyds  conducted further  monitoring which showed  the property had 
stabilised. It said as it was now stable, it could move  to substructure  repairs.  It produced a 
schedule of works and also offered to cash settle.
Ms G was unhappy with this and made  a further  complaint.  She said as the vegetation was 
still there, it would  be likely  to cause further  problems and she said the monitoring showed 
the cracks  were getting worse. She also said the cash settlement wasnt fair as it was only 
for the amount Lloyds would have  paid. She also asked for the fees for her representative to 
be paid as she felt she had to get him involved in order to ensure the claim was dealt with 
properly. She also didnt think it was fair that it would  now be more difficult  for her to get 
reasonably priced  insurance in the future.
Lloyds didnt uphold  her complaint. It said the policy doesnt provide cover for preventing 
future problems, just resolving the movement which it said it had done.  It also said under the 
policy a cash settlement will represent  the amount it would pay its own contractors so this 
was fair. It said it was her choice to appoint a representative so it wouldnt pay for the cost of 
this. 
Ms G wasnt  happy with this and she said as her neighbour wouldnt remove the vegetation, 
they should either install a root guard or underpin the building. She brought  her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He 
said Lloyds had done everything required under the policy and as the house was now stable 
it wouldnt be required to do anything further.
Ref: DRN27326592Ms G wasnt  happy with this as she said the monitoring  showed the house was still moving. 
Further she said the vegetation is still growing and poses an ongoing risk. She also said the 
fact the insurer had not dealt with the subsidence would make future insurance more  
expensive. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has raised two separate complaints to Lloyds  regarding  this claim. The first has been 
concluded so the complaint I am looking at addresses everything after the claim was 
accepted by the second contractor.
Ms G has raised a number of concerns about how Lloyds has dealt with her claim for 
subsidence at her property, I have  addressed  them in turn below.
Addressing the cause of the subsidence
Ms G doesnt think Lloyds has done enough to address  the original cause of the subsidence. 
She says this has meant the house  hasnt stabilised and the problems are likely  to worsen in 
future. I have considered whether Lloyds has fulfilled its liability  under the policy and if it has 
treated Ms G fairly in the circumstances.
After its initial investigation,  Lloyds discovered the subsidence had been caused  by 
vegetation near the property. Since  then the two trees  identified  have both been cut back 
and restricted.  Ms Gs neighbour, who owns the land the trees  are on, has refused to 
remove the buddleia. However since the action has been taken to cut it back, further 
monitoring has shown the house  is now stable. Lloyds has since suggested that repairs start 
in order to fix the cracks.
I think this is a reasonable approach.  Lloyds  has identified  and addressed  the cause of the 
subsidence. And has confirmed by further monitoring that the property  is now stable. I 
understand that the fact one of the trees hasnt  been  removed poses a risk that it will affect 
the property again in the future. However  the policy doesnt cover  safeguarding  the property 
against future risks. It just requires Lloyds to suitably  fix the problem. And I am satisfied that 
it has done this.
Ms G has said that although  the larger tree has had its roots  restricted it continues to grow.  I 
can see from photos provided that this is the case. However the fact the property appears to 
have stabilised means that the measures have been successful. So I dont  agree  that Lloyds 
need to take any further action.
Further, the tree in question belongs to a third party  Ms Gs neighbour. Lloyds has 
contacted her and asked  for the tree to be removed but she hasnt agreed. Lloyds  has 
therefore notified her of the possibility of future  damage to Ms Gs property and that the 
neighbour would be liable.  I dont  think it could reasonably have done anything  more in this 
regard. So I am satisfied that Lloyds has met its responsibitlity under the policy. 
I have also considered whether the action  taken will lead to an effective and long lasting 
repair. In cases of subsidence we would expect  that the action taken by the insurer  would  
Ref: DRN27326593lead to the property stabilising. It is at this point that repairs  to the cracks should be 
completed. 
Lloyds has said it has monitored  the property and is satisfied that it is now stable. However 
Ms G has disputed  this. She says further monitoring she has carried out shows  the cracks  
are worsening. She has provided reports to show this. 
Lloyds contractor have  reviewed these reports. They say that it shows only a very small 
amount of movement and no more than they would expect  from a house of that age. 
Although I am not an expert myself,  on viewing the reports  it does  appear  that the increase 
in the cracks is minimal. And it has now been  some time since the trees were restricted. So I 
am satisfied  that the property has now stabilised.  So I think  Lloyds have treated Ms G fairly  
when addressing the cause of the subsidence.
Settlement
Ms G is also unhappy with the settlement  that has been offered. She says it isnt fair that 
Lloyds has only offered to pay what it would cost it rather than basing the settlement on 
reasonable quotes.
Although I appreciate that the amount offered  is less than the market price for the repairs,  
Lloyds is entitled  to settle the claim based on the amount it would  cost it to repair. It says in 
the policy under the How we settle  claims:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing  the part of your home which is damaged
As Lloyds  has shown its settlement is based on how much its contractors would charge, I 
dont think it is unreasonable for Lloyds to pay this amount as a cash settlement. As the work  
could have been completed  for this cost to Lloyds if Ms G had chosen this option.
Ms G also says that the scope of work the settlement  is based  on doesnt cover  all the work 
required. She has provided  a list of the additional work she thinks  should be included. On 
reviewing this list I dont agree the extra work is Lloyds  liability. A lot of the items relate to 
work to prevent  worsening in the future. As Ive said, this isnt covered in the policy.
Lloyds has also said that if Ms G chooses to cash settle, and on arranging  the repairs further 
work is found to be needed that wasnt originally  obvious,  it would also provide cover for this. 
This allows for some of the items Ms G has identified as these  repairs  may only become 
obvious once  work  begins. I therefore think Lloyds offer is reasonable in the circumstances 
so I wont ask it to do anything differently.
Ref: DRN27326594Representative fees
I appreciate Ms G had issues with Lloyds contactors to begin  with as they originally 
misidentified the cause  of the cracks at her property.  So I can appreciate  why she may feel 
the need to be represented in her claim. However  this is her decision and not something 
Lloyds are liable to pay for. 
In cases like this we would only reasonably  expect  the insurer to make  a contribution to the 
fees of an expert or representative  if they make a material difference to the claim by 
overturning the outcome.  I cant see that this is the case  here.  I therefore  wont ask Lloyds to 
pay the fees for Ms Gs representative.  
Impact on insurance
Ms G has expressed concern about the impact the claim  will have on the price and 
availability of insurance in the future.  Unfortunately,  it is often true that subsidence claims 
have an impact on future home insurance policies. However,  I dont agree that the way 
Lloyds has handled  the claim will have any impact on this. As I have explained, I think  Lloyds 
has handled the claim fairly and reasonably and within its liability. So although Ms G may 
experience some impact  in future  insurance  quote, I dont think  this is Lloyds  fault.
For the reasons  I have  explained, I think Lloyds has treated  Ms G fairly and reasonably in its 
handling of the claim.  I therefore  wont ask it to do anything further or differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I wont require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to do 
anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2732659