K822xcomplaint
Miss H has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly turned 
down her claim for accidental  damage to her laminate flooring and redecoration of her walls. 
background 
Miss H has a contents insurance policy with RSA, which includes cover for accidental 
damage and tenants  liability. 
Miss H registered a claim with RSA in July 2018. She explained her daughter had dropped a 
can of wood stain in her living room causing damage to a number of items  of furniture, 
clothing, as well as her laminate flooring and walls. 
In assessing the claim, RSA instructed a company, who Ill call R, to assess  the damage  
that had been caused to her flooring and furniture  items. R initially  advised  Miss H shed  be 
covered for the damage to her laminate flooring and the redecoration of her walls. It 
suggested that Miss H obtain a number of quotes  from decorators.  It also arranged  another 
visit to measure her floor and discuss replacement  flooring options 
RSA accepted Miss Hs claim for the damage to her furniture,  but explained it wouldnt cover 
the damage to her walls  or laminate flooring as it said these werent covered by the policy. It 
said they would be covered by buildings cover, but as Miss H didnt have this cover  it 
couldnt accept  the claim  for these items. But it recognised it had given Miss H misleading 
advice about what it would cover so offered her £150 compensation. 
Miss H complained about RSAs refusal to cover her damaged  laminate flooring  and 
redecoration. She argued that laminate flooring serves the same purpose as carpet,  which is 
covered by the policy. She also noted her laminate flooring wasnt fixed  to the floor,  and it 
wasnt under  skirting boards so could be easily removed. Miss H had other concerns with the 
assessment of her claim in relation to her sofa,  but I understand these have been settled 
separately.
RSA accepted that itd given Miss H misleading information about  what would be covered. It 
also apologised for a delay in responding to an email where Miss H had provided her bank 
details. It offered Miss H £150 compensation in recognition of these errors. But it maintained 
that it couldnt provide cover for her laminate flooring or redecoration as these werent 
considered contents for the purposes  of the policy, they also werent covered by the 
tenants liability section  of the policy. 
Miss H didnt accept RSAs offer and referred her complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
considered the complaint and upheld  it in part. He considered that Miss Hs laminate flooring 
should reasonably be considered to be part of the contents of her home as it wasnt fixed  in 
place, and Miss H had demonstrated  that itd been  removed  without  being  damaged  or 
causing damage to the building. But he accepted the policy didnt provide cover for 
redecoration, as wallpaper and paint  couldnt  reasonably be considered  to be part of the 
contents of the property,  and so werent covered  under  the policy. In view of his findings he 
recommended that RSA accept Miss Hs claim for damage to her laminate  flooring. 
RSA accepted the investigators findings and agreed  to settle  the claim for the laminate 
flooring. But Miss H disagreed. She believes  redecoration of her walls should  be covered. 
She said shed initially  been told that her internal decoration would be covered, and was 
Ref: DRN25754392advised to get quotes  for the work, so she considered RSA should be bound  by its earlier 
agreement. She also said she felt it should  be covered under the tenants liability  section of 
the policy which extends her cover  to include some benefits that would usually only be 
offered for buildings cover.  She also explained how shed found the claims and complaint 
process stressful and upsetting.   
As theres  been  no agreement, the case has been  passed to me to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im partially upholding 
this complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator. I appreciate  this will come  as 
a disappointment to Miss H so Id like to explain how Ive reached this decision.  
As RSA has now accepted Miss Hs claim for the damage to her laminate flooring, I wont be 
commenting on this other  than to say I consider its offer to now settle the claim is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
The issue  for me to consider is whether RSA should  also cover the redecoration of Miss Hs 
walls. 
Miss Hs policy  provides cover for accidental damage to contents.  The  policy defines 
contents as:
household goods, high risk items and personal  effects which belong to or are the legal  
responsibility of the insured or of resident domestic employees
I dont consider wallpaper or paint to reasonably  fall within this definition. Generally Id 
consider contents  to include anything that can be easily  removed from a property without  
being damaged or causing  damage  to the building. Wallpaper and paint cant  be easily  
removed once theyve  been applied. So I think RSA reasonably  concluded that it wouldnt 
cover Miss Hs claim under the accidental damage  section of the policy.  
The policy also provides  cover for tenants  liability. The policy  document sets out that:  
If you are legally liable under the terms of your tenancy agreement  for damage to your 
home, we will indemnify you against  your liability at law under paragraphs 1-10, 12 and 13 of 
the Buildings section  of this policy. 
Miss H has demonstrated shes a tenant, and under her tenancy agreement is liable for 
painting and decorating her home.  
So under the tenants  liability section Miss H would also be covered for damage to her home, 
including decoration, provided  the damage was caused by one of the things listed  in 
paragraphs 1-10, 12 and 13. 
Having carefully considered this list, Im satisfied tenants liability  cover doesnt  extend to 
accidental damage,  which  is listed under paragraph 14 of the buildings  section of the policy. 
So again,  Im satisfied RSA reasonably concluded  that it wouldnt cover Miss Hs claim under 
the tenants liability section of the policy, as the damage wasnt  caused by an insured event. 
Ref: DRN25754393I appreciate there were a number of problems with RSAs handling of the claim. Miss H was 
given misleading  information at the start, which led her to believe she would be covered for 
the damage to her wall decorations. There were also some avoidable delays, including the 
delay in paying for the damaged laminate flooring while we considered the complaint.  But 
RSA has already offered Miss H £150 compensation in recognition of its errors,  and to 
apologise for the trouble  and upset shes experienced. This offer is in line with what Id have 
asked RSA to pay had it not made  an offer, so I consider it to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances and I wont be asking  it to pay anything more. 
Overall, Im satisfied that RSA has now fairly  settled  Miss Hs claim for accidental  damage to 
her home. I appreciate Miss H will be disappointed that her decorations havent been 
covered, but Im satisfied these werent covered by the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part.
As Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has now settled Miss Hs claim for the damage to her 
laminate flooring and has paid her £150 compensation, Im not asking  it to do anything  
further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2019.  
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2575439