K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Santander UK Plc (at the time Abbey National)  mis-sold  them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993. 
Mr and Mrs F applied  for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint because Santander recommended  the 
policy to Mr and Mrs F but I dont think it was right for them.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Fs policy excluded claims for Recurrence of any disability or illness for which  
you sought medical advice in the 2 year period  immediately prior to the start of your cover   
this was an important  exclusion, and I think that this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs F.
Mrs F has unfortunately had a number of health  issues over the years   some of which  have 
developed in to serious  conditions over time. Our adjudicator pointed  this out to Santander, 
and also sent some of Mrs Fs medical records to support their view.  
Santander disagreed  it said that the only medical consultation/examination she had in the 
two years prior to taking out the policy came back as normal  so this wouldnt be excluded.  
But I disagree with its interpretation of the terms. Mrs F was clearly suffering from some  
medical issues at that time  otherwise an invasive examination wouldnt have been 
performed, and l can see that in the years  following, Mrs F went on to have a number of 
problems that are clearly  linked, as well as other  health issues.  
It follows that I dont think Mr and Mrs F wouldve bought the policy if Santander had made 
clear it wasnt  right for them. So, I think Mr and Mrs F have lost out because of what  
Santander did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  but I still think  I should uphold the complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs F in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs F the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Ref: DRN20835312Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs F made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander must  give Mr and Mrs 
F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2083531