K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains Revolut Ltd shouldnt have blocked  his access  to, and subsequently closed, 
the account he held with them. He says they didnt  tell him their reasons for closing his 
account and failed to respond  to his request for information. He thinks  they should  fully 
refund his membership  fee and any interest they made on his funds while his account  was 
blocked.
Background
Mr G opened an account with Revolut in June  2017. He used the account regularly until 
June 2018 when it was blocked.  On 2 July 2018 he contacted Revolut via their mobile chat 
application in order to reacquire access to his account. They  responded the next day and 
said his account  had been blocked  and they needed to ask him some questions, which  he 
answered.
Although Mr G answered Revoluts questions, he refused their request to send them a photo 
of a bank statement for the card he used to top up his account.  Revolut  told him theyd 
continue their review and would be in touch.  Mr G chased  them  several times and on 23 July 
he was informed his account had been  closed and his funds were being sent back  to the 
account they came from. 
Mr G asked Revolut to refund his membership fee in full and any interest they had made on 
his funds from the time they were  frozen. He also asked for all the data they had in relation 
to him. Revolut responded on 27 July 2018 and told him theyd decided to refund five 
months worth of his membership fee. Mr G wasnt satisfied by this and repeated he wanted 
a full refund  of the fee and the interest. He repeated his request for data.
Mr G contacted Revolut  on 25 February 2019, stating he still wanted a full refund of his 
membership fee and a refund of his travel insurance. He asked  if he could open a new 
account, which Revolut  refused,  in addition to refusing his further requests for a refund. 
Mr G complained to Revolut and said theyd failed  to respond to his request for information.  
Revolut rejected his complaint. They said their account review was in line with their 
regulatory obligations and their terms and conditions,  so Mr G brought  his complaint to us.
An investigator at our service decided  not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. They found: 
Mr G was likely caused some  difficulty  when his funds were  frozen,  but Revoluts 
actions were reasonable when considering the legal and regulatory  obligations  they 
have. 
Revolut had the commercial discretion to end its relationship with Mr G and close  his 
account. Theyd correctly  applied  the terms of his account in closing his account 
immediately.
Revolut had failed  to handle Mr Gs request for information as they shouldve, and 
they acknowledge this. They confirmed they would now comply with the request, but 
their failure hadnt impacted Mr G. He hadnt  pursued his request after July 2018 until 
he contacted them again in February 2019.  Neither does their failure mean they were  
wrong to block and close his account.
Ref: DRN29423822Our role as a service isnt to punish  firms or businesses. These kinds of actions fall 
within the remit of the regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority, who Mr G may wish 
to contact.
Mr G rejected the findings made  by the investigator. He says Revolut closed  thousands of 
customer accounts around the time they closed his, and they likely profited by holding  on to 
those funds for the time they did. With no access to statements he says their former 
customers cant be sure they received their full balances back. He says it took him a year to 
verify his refund.
Mr G has asked for a final decision by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed  to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Revoluts decision to block and then close Mr Gs account no doubt caused him 
inconvenience and wouldve likely been  worrying for him. But the fact he experienced these 
difficulties doesnt  mean  Revolut  were  wrong to take the action they did. 
Revolut has extensive  legal and regulatory  obligations  they must meet when they provide 
account services to their customers, both new and existing. And to fulfil these responsibilities  
they sometimes need to review  an account to understand  more  about the activity taking 
place on it. This includes  asking questions and getting information in order  to establish the 
origin of funds. 
Revoluts obligations  are ongoing and do not cease just because  a customer  may have 
provided information to them previously  I note Mr G told them  hed sent them  a P60 in the 
past. If Revolut didnt review their customers accounts, they could risk serious sanctions and 
penalties. I also see Revolut make  it clear in their terms and conditions, which Mr G agreed 
to when he opened his account, that they can freeze  his account to perform their obligations.
So, with the above in mind, I think it was reasonable for Revolut to ask Mr G for a photo  of a 
statement in relation to the card he used to top up his accounts.  And, as Mr G refused to 
provide this, I think it was reasonable  for them to continue to prevent him accessing  his 
account until they took the decision to close it. So, I wont be asking them to refund his full 
membership fee or the interest they may have received in relation  to his account  while  it was 
blocked.
Revolut can decide  not to continue its relationship  with Mr G, in the same way he couldve 
decided he no longer wished to transact  with them. Their decision to do so is not something 
we would generally interfere with, as this would impinge on their freedom to decide  who they 
want as a customer, which includes their existing customers.
Ive considered why Revolut  decided to close Mr Gs account and I think they legitimately  
exercised the commercial  discretion afforded  to them. And I cant think of a compelling 
reason why they should continue to provide  an account to Mr G when he refused  to provide 
Ref: DRN29423823them with the information they had asked for. And for this same reason I also think they were 
able to close his account immediately under the accounts terms.
Mr G says Revolut profited from freezing the accounts of their former customers and they 
should be fined  or punished. But I must  make  clear that my role is to look into the individual  
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint. And in doing  so, I dont think Revolut took an 
unreasonably long time to close his account  or return  his funds. Neither  do I think  their 
decision to return the funds to the account they came from is unfair. This is common practice 
in the banking industry. 
Mr G can report  his concerns about  what he considers  to be Revoluts practices to the FCA, 
as they are the regulator, and its their responsibility to monitor  the conduct of the firms  they 
authorise and to decide whether to fine them  where appropriate. 
I think Revolut shouldve  responded to Mr Gs request for all the information they held on him 
when he made it, and this was a clear oversight on their part. But Ive decided not to award 
Mr G any compensation for this, as Im not persuaded  hes suffered a substantive loss as a 
result of Revoluts failure.
I think its telling Mr G only pursued his complaint in February 2019,  over half a year after he 
made his original request. And I also agree  with the investigator that their failure  to comply 
with his request  didnt  mean their decision to freeze  and close his account was 
unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr G to accept or reject  
my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2942382