K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that OMG Financial Planning Limited wrongly advised him to cancel his 
existing stocks and shares ISA, invest in a new one on the basis that it would deliver better 
returns because there  was someone monitoring  the investments daily. He also said he had 
no idea his capital  was at risk. He also says OMG advised him to withdrawn £10,000 from 
this ISA.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not believe the complaint  should  be upheld.
He noted that Mr C had investment experience, having previously invested in a stocks and 
shares ISA. He summarised Mr Cs financial situation at the time of advice in 2013 and felt 
that the recommendation to invest £250  a month into this risk-based  ISA was reasonable, 
particularly given regular  contributions posed  less of a risk than a large  upfront  payment. He 
also noted that OMG had asked Mr C a series of questions to determine his attitude to 
investment risk, and felt this recommendation matched his answers.
He noted that, after a further review in 2015 including  a new risk questionnaire, the level of 
risk had been reduced. Finally, he said hed seen no persuasive evidence  that OMG had 
recommended withdrawing £10,000  and indeed there was no evidence of such  a withdrawal.
Mr C disagreed, and said:
The advisor suggested he withdraw  £10,000 from the ISA and put it in the bank when 
he questioned  its performance; this was because he knew hed advised him to invest 
in a product which  produced a far worse performance than his previous investment
He did not need to withdraw this £10,000
He had never wanted to take any risk with his hard-earned money; he was only ever 
looking for a product  which  produced  better returns that a banks savings account
This sale was clearly driven by a desire  for the fees and charges
OMG and the advisor lied to him, claiming it no longer dealt  with his initial ISA and he 
would have to take out a new one
The advisor took away all the paperwork concerning the original ISA and has refused  
to give it back
The advisor came and sat at their dining table, filled out all the forms and simply 
asked him to sign; nothing  was ever explained
OMG has also given  him and his partner other  financial advice which  has turned out 
to be disastrous
OMG said that Mr Cs original complaint was that he was wrongly  advised  to reduce the risk 
of his investment  in 2015; he has only recently  claimed he never understood his 2013 
investment posed  a risk to his money. It also said that it didnt understand the nature of his 
complaint as his invested sums,  adding  up to £19,750, had grown to £21,465, more than a 
savings account  would  have done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25689042In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
I recognise Mr C feels strongly about  the advice he received in 2013 and 2015, claiming that 
the advisor misled  him and failed to explain the nature of this investment. But in order to 
uphold a complaint I need  to be satisfied that there  is sufficient, persuasive evidence  to 
conclude that a business clearly did something wrong. In this case I do not believe there is 
such evidence.
Firstly, I obviously  cannot know what was said during any discussion and am therefore 
largely reliant on both parties comments about  what was allegedly said; along with any 
documentary evidence  of such  discussions. Secondly,  I also need to consider whether the 
advice appears  to have been reasonable given a clients recorded  situation, irrespective of 
whether s/he agreed to the recommendation.
In this case, it seems  to me Mr C was in a position  to invest £250 a month given  his overall 
financial situation, and that it was not unreasonable to recommend the portfolio(s)  in 
question as a potential means  of getting a better  return that a savings  account.  This did 
involve both a smallish risk to his capital and the risk of getting no return;  given investments 
can rise and fall in value,  as the oft-repeated phrase explains.
I am also satisfied that the advisor made this clear  in his recommendations letters. If Mr C 
did not want to take any risk with his money  and/or wanted a guaranteed  return  on it, then I 
think he was given  sufficient information  to realise  that the 2013 recommendation did not 
meet his requirements.
I acknowledge that Mr C says the advisor did not explain  things clearly  in the meeting at his 
house and simply  filled in the risk questions himself. I cannot  say whether this is what 
occurred. But, if this did occur, then I think Mr C had a responsibility to check what  he was 
signing. This report gave  a detailed account of his alleged responses to various  questions  
which indicated a clear  willingness  to take some  risk with these monthly sums to try and beat 
savings rates/inflation. If Mr C did not say any of these things he should have refused to sign 
the documentation.
So I dont  believe there is sufficient information  to conclude that Mr C was unable to make an 
informed decision about whether he wanted to invest this money (i.e. put it at risk) as 
opposed to depositing it in a risk-free savings account.
I note that Mr C also says the advisor  misled him about the likely growth/interest, promising 
that it would  do better  than his previous ISA, but Ive seen no documentary evidence   via 
the recommendations letter  that any promises were made.  Again,  if Mr C felt the advisor 
had made  such promises,  he ought  reasonably have questioned why these were  not spelt  
out in black and white.
I also dont believe there is evidence to say the advisor told him to withdraw £10,000,  
something which appears not to have occurred. It is possible that, in response to Mr Cs 
disappointment at the performance to date,  the advisor pointed  out that he could  choose  to 
withdraw this sum and simply put in a savings account. But this seems to me uncontroversial  
advice and not grounds to uphold a complaint.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware of the nature of the 
recommended investments, including the 2015 lower risk one, and was in a position to 
decide whether  to go ahead with investing  his money in this way.
Ref: DRN25689043I have considered Mr Cs other  allegations  but dont  believe there is sufficient evidence 
about these disputed issues to justify upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2568904