K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about Principal Insurance Limiteds actions in connection with his 
motorcycle insurance policies.
In bringing this complaint Mr Cs been helped by a friend. But for ease  Ill refer to his friends  
comments as being Mr Cs.
background
In June 2016 Mr C contacted Principal  about insuring one of his bikes, which  Ill refer to as 
S. Principal  sold him a policy  underwritten by an insurer Ill call E. In September  2016 Mr C 
rang Principal and asked if he could add another bike, which  Ill call H, to his policy. Principal  
also insured that bike with E and sent Mr C his policy documents.
In December 2016 someone claiming  to be Mr C rang Principal and insured  another  bike, 
which Ill call V. Principal  insured V on a policy underwritten by an insurer Ill call A. In 
April 2017 the same individual called Principal  again wanting to cancel the policy because 
they said they were  getting rid of the bike. But Principal couldn't  do that at that time and 
advised the caller  to ring back the following week. Ive seen no evidence the caller rang back 
about that policy. 
In May 2017  Mr Cs policy for S was coming  up for renewal and he rang Principal. During 
that call Principal explained that S and H were  both insured on their own separate policies. 
And it told Mr C the policy for H wouldnt be due for renewal until September 2017. Principal 
also referred to Mr C having a third policy for V. Mr C said he didn't own V or have that 
policy. Principal arranged  for S to be insured by an underwriter which  Ill call Z. Mr C rang 
Principal again  is September  2017 to renew his policy for H. Principal insured H with a policy  
underwritten by A.
In October  2017, Mr C rang Principal again. He said A had written to him to tell him it had 
cancelled his policy for H as if it had never  existed (known as voidance).  A said that was 
because he hadn't  told it hed had previous  policies  cancelled by another  insurer. Mr C said 
he didn't know  anything about previously  cancelled policies. During the conversation 
Principal again  referred to Mr C having a policy covering V. And when Mr C told it he had no 
interest in V, Principal  asked him to write  to it to explain what had happened including  that 
he didn't have any interest  in V. I've seen  no evidence  Mr C sent Principal that letter.  
In November 2017, Z asked Principal for proof of Mr Cs no claims discount  (NCD).  Principal 
wrote to Mr C. It said that if he didn't provide proof  of his NCD and his driving licence 
information it would cancel his policy for S. Mr C rang Principal. He said hed sent that 
information by post the previous year and Principal hadn't returned it. Principal said it had 
previously received his driving licence information but hadn't received  his NCD proof. It 
asked who his previous insurer  was and said it would contact it to confirm  the NCD. It also 
said Mr C would need to show it evidence he didn't have an interest  in V. It said he should 
ring back  the following  week to discuss it. Mr C didn't ring back. Principal contacted  Mr Cs 
previous insurer but it said it couldn't confirm  NCD over the phone.  It told Principal that Mr C 
would need to contact it himself  for NCD proof. In December 2017, as NCD  proof  hadn't  
been provided, Z cancelled the policy for S.
In May 2018  A wrote to Mr C. It confirmed  it had cancelled Mr Cs policy for H because it had 
learned of previous policies in his name being  cancelled by an insurer in September and 
Ref: DRN26292552October 2016. It said it had given  Mr C details  of how he could find out which insurer 
cancelled those policies  and why. It confirmed that as Mr C wasnt  to blame for the policy  
voidance it would remove the record of that from any external database. 
Mr C brought his complaint about Principal  to us. I issued a provisional decision on 
13 November 2020. For ease Ive copied my provisional findings  below:  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.  
Principal is an insurance broker. So it sells policies and may help with their administration  
but it doesn't insure the bikes itself. That cover is provided by various insurers  which 
underwrite specific policies Principal sells. And while Principal might occasionally take 
certain actions on behalf  of those insurers, for example  when cancelling a policy or sending 
out policy documents, it isn't responsible for the insurers actions. So in this decision I will 
only comment on actions that Principal itself is responsible for and not for anything the 
insurers have done or actions  Principal  has taken on behalf of those insurers.
I should say that its not for me to decide whether someones acted fraudulently. But it 
seems to me that Mr Cs problems have most likely  arisen because someone  has been 
impersonating him in order to insure their own bike(s) but using Mr Cs name to do so. And 
when he brought  his complaint to us Mr C had already identified that a family member  had 
most likely impersonated  him in order to secure  a policy. In particular  a policy  for bike V, 
which Mr C says hes never  owned. I entirely  accept Mr Cs evidence  that he had no interest 
in insuring that bike himself. 
When Mr C first complained to us he thought Principal had made a mistake  when hed asked 
to add H to his policy for S. He thought  that rather than doing so, Principal had added  H to 
the policy for V by mistake. But thats not the case. In fact at the time Mr C insured H for the 
first time through Principal, his family  member  hadn't yet insured V through Principal. And 
Principal set up an entirely new policy for H. So it's not the case  that H was ever added  to 
another policy and instead was always insured on its own policy.  
I've listened  to the call in which Principal set up the policy for V. And while I'm satisfied its 
not Mr C ringing Principal,  the caller  knew all Mr Cs relevant personal details, including  for 
example that Mr C had been in an accident in 2015  that was his fault. That meant the caller 
could successfully complete the caller verification process, which  is a set of questions  
insurers go through to try to ensure theyre talking  to the right person. So given the caller  
gave all of Mr Cs personal  details  accurately, I don't  think  Principal could have known,  at 
that time,  the caller wasn't Mr C. It follows that I don't think it was unreasonable that it went  
ahead and set up the policy for V as the caller  requested.
But I think Principal should have done  more to investigate  the matter  sooner. Mr C told 
Principal in May 2017 he didn't own or insure V, even though  Principal had a record  of a 
policy in Mr Cs name for that bike. But Principal didn't investigate  the matter  further  at that 
time, nor did it pass that information on to the relevant insurer  to investigate. I think it should  
have done so. And it's possible that investigation would have resulted in Principal identifying  
that Mr C had no interest in V and someone had impersonated him in order to secure 
insurance. But it didn't  do so. 
Ref: DRN26292553However, even if Principal had investigated the policy  for V sooner I don't think  that would 
have prevented the problems Mr C experienced. Im aware  that its the record  of previous 
policy cancellations that has made  it extremely difficult for Mr C to be able to afford to insure 
his bikes. But I don't think those problems are related to the policy for V, which Principal 
placed with A. Thats  because  when  A voided the policy  for H, it told Mr C it had learned 
about two previously cancelled policies, both of which were cancelled by an insurer in 
September and October 2016.  That means  those cancellations took place at least  two 
months before Principal  arranged insurance  for V. So A didn't void Mr Cs policy  for H 
because of the policy Principal set up for V in December 2016.  But instead  it was the 
previous policy  cancellations  by a different insurer  in September  and October 2016 that led 
A to void the policy.
Mr Cs said that an insurer hasn't ever cancelled one of his policies. And I find his evidence 
(prior to December 2017) persuasive. But there  was a record on a shared insurance 
database of two policies in Mr Cs name being  cancelled in September  and October  2016. 
So it seems  likely that Mr Cs family member - or someone else - had impersonated him in 
order to secure insurance previously. And that person  has had at least  two policies 
cancelled. But as those  policies were in Mr Cs name, that meant that - as far as insurers 
who accessed the shared database  are concerned  - its Mr C whos  had the policies 
cancelled, not his family member or someone  else. And those cancellations  have affected 
Mr Cs insurance  history.  But I don't think thats  because of anything that Principal did or 
didn't do. It follows that I don't think its Principals  fault that A voided Mr Cs policy  for H. 
Mr Cs told us that the impact of having policies cancelled has been fairly devastating, as he 
hasn't been able to find other  affordable insurance,  hasnt  been able to work and this has 
affected his health. I'm sorry to hear about Mr Cs personal difficulties. But it seems  to me 
that the majority of the problems Mr C has experienced havent been caused  by anything 
Principal have or haven't done  but instead  have been caused by the actions of his relative 
who impersonated him. As I've said above, from the evidence I've seen, its most likely that 
Mr Cs relative  had already had policies in Mr Cs name cancelled in 2016. And that was 
many months before Principal could have had any reason to suspect that there was any 
suspicious activity with Mr Cs policies. So, I think its been  the questionable  activities of 
Mr Cs relative  which  has caused  Mr Cs difficulties  to arise, rather than the actions of 
Principal. 
Also Principal isn't responsible for the entries on the shared  insurance  database  regarding  
Mr Cs cancelled policies. And it seems likely that it's those entries which  are having  the 
most significant effect on Mr Cs ability to find a policy to cover him. So I don't think Principal 
is to blame for the problems Mr C has experienced because hes struggled to find suitable 
insurance. And to address  this Mr C will need  to take the matter  up with the insurer(s) that 
added the record  of the cancellations to the shared insurance database. 
That said I've seen that Principal was involved in the cancellation  of the policy  for S, 
underwritten by Z, when Z asked  Principal to verify Mr Cs NCD. And as this wasn't  received 
the policy was cancelled. But when Principal was gathering  that evidence  for Z it spoke with 
Mr C. And its Mr Cs responsibility to provide proof  of his NCD. He said hed sent that proof 
to Principal when  he first took out a policy for S in 2016. But Principal has no record of 
receiving NCD proof  at that time.  But, to help Mr C out, it told him it would contact  his 
previous insurer in order to get that NCD proof. And in taking that action it was acting on 
Mr Cs behalf. It did ring Mr Cs previous insurer which told Principal it wouldn't  give it NCD 
proof over the phone. It told Principal Mr C would need to contact it himself. But I can't see 
that Principal ever told Mr C hed need  to provide the NCD proof himself. And as a result his 
Ref: DRN26292554policy with Z was cancelled and the cancellation letter  sent to Mr Cs home address. That 
might have been avoided if Principal had told Mr C to contact his previous  insurer  himself to 
get the NCD proof. So I don't think Principal  dealt with Mr C fairly. 
I've seen that Z paid a pro-rata refund of policy premium to Principal. But Principal offset that 
refund against  the amount  it would have charged Mr C to cancel the policy.  So it didn't pass  
that refund on to Mr C. But as it's possible Mr C could have prevented  the cancelation if 
Principal had told him he needed to provide  the NCD proof himself I don't think its fair he 
should have to pay those cancellation  charges.  So I think Principal should pay the refund of 
premium Z paid to it, to Mr C. And as hes been without that money for some time it should 
add simple interest to it from the date of cancellation to the date it refunds him.
Also as I think  Principals mistakes  and oversight have been a source  of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr C I think it should pay him compensation of £300. I know  Mr C thinks, 
given the difficulties hes faced, that sum isn't enough. But as I've said above I don't  believe  
Principal has been the cause of most  of Mr Cs difficulties. And Im satisfied that £300 
compensation is reasonable in the circumstances as it's in line with awards we make in other  
cases of similar seriousness. 
Im also aware that Mr C thinks Principal should confirm he had five years  NCD entitlement.  
But I don't  think  thats appropriate. When Mr C took out his policy  for S in 2016 he said he 
had three  years NCD. But Principal has no record of receiving proof of that NCD. So 
Principal can't confirm  what  NCD  Mr C had before then. And this is something  Mr C can 
approach his previous insurer for. Mr C did then hold a policy which  Principal sold him until 
June 2017. So I think it would be reasonable for Principal to confirm that Mr C had gained a 
further years NCD for that year. But he didn't gain a full years  NCD after Z cancelled his 
policy. So I don't  think Mr C has entitlement  to five years NCD.
developments
Mr C didn't agree with my provisional decision.  He made a number of detailed  comments.  I 
don't intend  to list all of those here instead; I will address what I see as the key issues 
relevant to my decision in my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I don't intend  to depart 
from my provisional conclusions. 
Mr Cs said he didn't  initially  realise that Principal had set up a separate policy for H as hed 
asked it to add it to his existing  policy for S. I accept thats the case, but I don't  think this has 
any detrimental effect on Mr C.  And  the policy documents that Principal sent to Mr C only 
referred to the insurance cover for H, they didn't say H had been added to the policy for S. 
And they gave a start and end date for the policy based on when Mr C had asked for the 
cover for H to begin.  So I think Principal gave Mr H enough information  to show  the policy 
was for H alone. And, as I've said above, I don't  think having two separate  policies rather 
than one policy for two bikes  had any sort of harmful effect on Mr Cs position. Indeed it 
meant he had the cover  for H for around  three  months longer than he would have  done  had 
H been added to the policy for S. That's  because the policy  for H ran from September  to 
September, rather than ending  in June when the policy for S did.  
Ref: DRN26292555Referring to his phone  call with Principal in October  2017 Mr C said that he had no 
knowledge of the cancelled policy for V. He added that he can't recall  Principal asking him 
for a letter to explain that. I entirely accept that Mr C was previously  unaware  his family 
member had taken out a policy  in his name for V. But I've listened again to a recording of the 
October 2017 call. And in that Principal initially asked Mr C to send it an email to explain that 
he had no interest in V, so that Principal could pass that on to the relevant insurer.  And Mr C 
asked if he could send  a letter rather than an email, which Principal said was fine. It seems  
that the reason Principal was asking  for this letter was in order  for it and the relevant 
insurer(s) to be able to look into the matter fully. So I'm satisfied that Principal did ask Mr C 
for the letter I referred to in my provisional decision but Mr C didn't provide  it. 
Mr C's said I put unfair  and unjust  emphasis  on the fact that Mr C didn't provide the letter 
referred to above.  But I'm not sure how hes arrived at that conclusion. Ive re-read my 
provisional decision and, while  I referred  to Mr C not sending  the letter hed agreed to send 
in the background to the complaint, I didn't  refer to it at all in the reasons for my conclusions. 
And my finding was that Principal should have done more  to deal with the matter. So I don't 
agree that I placed unfair or unjust emphasis on Mr Cs omission to send a letter.
Mr C says hes adamant he sent Principal proof  of his NCD when  he took out the policy for S 
in 2016. But as I said in my provisional  decision Principal has no record  of receiving that 
NCD proof. It does have a record of receiving his driving licence information, and if it had 
received the NCD  proof I would expect it to have some record of that. And its not the case 
that every  insurer will insist on verifying NCD in order to validate  a policy. So it's not the case 
that Mr C couldn't  have  secured the policy with E without providing  NCD proof.  
And, as E didn't  insist  on seeing that NCD proof,  Principal didn't chase it up with Mr C at that 
time. That meant, as it didn't have NCD  proof on its file, Principal couldnt  pass on something 
it didn't have, after Z asked to see that proof. And the reason Principal was asking Mr C 
again to submit the proof was because  Z had asked to see it and Principal  didn't  have  it. 
And, as it wasn't supplied,  that led to Z cancelling Mr Cs policy  with it. Mr Cs said he didn't 
know the policy had been cancelled. But I've seen that a policy cancellation letter  was sent 
to his home address. So its not clear  why he wasn't  aware of this. But I don't think  its 
because Principal did anything  wrong.
Mr C also took issue with my provisional finding that even if Principal had investigated  the 
policy for V sooner I didn't think that would  have prevented the problems he experienced. He 
said he disagreed  for two reasons. The first seems to be because Z also cancelled a policy, 
which Mr C thinks  shouldnt have happened  because hed previously  provided  NCD proof.  
But as I've said above, Principal has no record of receiving that proof.  Mr Cs suggested that 
Principal might simply have mislaid this evidence.  And while  that is a possibility,  if Principal 
had received it I would  have  expected  it to have a record  of that. But it doesn't.  So, on 
balance, I don't think Mr C did send it. It follows that I don't think  Principal needs to take any 
further action  in that regard. If Mr C remains  unhappy  with Zs cancellation of that policy  then 
this is something that he might wish to take up with Z. 
Mr C also said that if Principal had investigated the potential fraud over the policy  for V with 
more transparency, then the voidance would have been removed and Mr C wouldn't have 
found himself in the same position.  But I don't believe thats the case. As I said in my 
provisional decision the voided  policies  that initially caused the problems for Mr C weren't 
arranged by Principal.  But instead  were two other  policies, which  the insurer voided in 2016  
before Mr Cs relative ever approached  Principal for a policy for V. Principal had no part to 
play in the arrangement or voiding of those  policies. And it was the voidance  of those 
Ref: DRN26292556policies that caused insurer A to void the policy  for H, not because of the policy Principal had 
arranged for V.
Mr C added that if Principal had investigated  the matter sooner  then it could have been 
cleared up earlier.  But while  an earlier  intervention might have resulted in As policy  for V 
being cancelled  sooner  I don't think an earlier intervention by Principal would have 
prevented the issues Mr C experienced. Thats because, as I've said above, it was the 
voidance of the two other  policies, which Principal had no involvement  in, that caused the 
issue to arise. Further, Ive seen that when A was looking into the matter,  it wrote to Mr C, in 
May 2018 and advised him how he could  discover  what information was held on the shared 
database about the voidances, so he could identify who the relevant insurer was and take 
action to have  the matter  cleared up. But it doesn't appear that he took that action 
successfully at the time.
Mr C told us that, since I issued my provisional  decision, hes contacted the insurer who 
voided the 2016 policies,  and hes had a positive  response to that contact. I understand he's 
also contacted  the broker which arranged those  policies. Im pleased to hear Mr C has had a 
positive result and this might now put him into a better position. But this is action he could 
have taken in 2018 after A wrote to him. And its not Principals fault that he didn't take that 
action sooner. So I don't hold it responsible for many  of the issues that Mr C has 
experienced in the meantime. 
Mr C said Principal had a duty of care to act on potential fraud. But I think  the issue  here is 
that Principal simply  didn't  identify the potential  fraud. And it didn't in any way suffer because 
of any fraud. There was a possibility, had Mr Cs relative made a claim on the policy for V, 
for A to suffer if it had had to settle a claim. So Principal should have passed  any concerns 
about the validity of the policy for V on to A, which is why I've agreed that Principal didn't 
take enough action to address the matter promptly. But it remains  the case that the reason 
that Mr Cs found himself in the position  that he has is mainly because  his relative 
successfully impersonated him to secure insurance policies and those policies were then 
voided. And its the impact of that action which has caused Mr C so many  problems, not 
because of anything  Principal did or didn't do. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Principal Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr C the premium refund it received from Z for the policy cancelled in 
December 2017. It should add simple  interest  to that refund, at a rate of 8% a year,  from 
the date of cancellation to the date it refunds  him.
Pay Mr C £300 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience  arising  from its 
mistakes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2021.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2629255