K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that AXA Insurance UK Plc handled  her claim for damage to her car under 
her motor insurance policy very poorly.  She complains that AXA hasnt repaired her car.
background
Ms B said she discovered her front bumper damaged when she returned to her car in a 
carpark. She claimed on her policy with AXA and it sent an engineer to inspect her car. 
AXA said Ms Bs car was damaged by an unknown third-party and that its engineer  found  
there was pre-existing  damage  in a similar area of the car. AXAs  engineer provided a report  
in which  he assessed  the cost of repairing the incident-related damage at £425.50. 
AXA thought  that the pre-existing  damage to Ms Bs car meant it couldnt repair the recent  
damage without repairing  the unrelated damage. It said the best course of action was to 
cash settle Ms Bs claim in lieu of repairs. AXA sent Ms B a payment of £425.50. AXA said 
that by mistake it hadnt charged Ms B the £450 excess  payable  under the terms of her 
policy and it said it wouldnt now try and recover this from her. 
Ms B said that if her cars bumper was removed it probably wouldnt go back  due to the pre-
existing damage.  She added that there  was also damage to the side of her car thats been 
there for years and wasnt a problem. Ms B wanted her car fully repaired but not by AXAs  
repairer, and she got three estimates from repairers and sent these  to AXA.  
Ms B complained to AXA that its payment  wasnt enough as she thought she would have  to 
pay a disproportionate  amount to get her car fully repaired.  AXA said the estimates Ms B 
provided were for the full cost of repairs including the pre-existing damage  and it wouldnt 
pay for this.
Ms B complained that AXAs representatives  were difficult, obstructive and rude and spoke 
to her in an unprofessional  way. She also said she was unhappy  with the hire car AXA had 
provided as it wasnt big enough for her needs.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said AXA can decide how it 
will settle a claim  and it didnt have to repair damage  unrelated  to the claim.  He thought AXA 
wouldnt have been able to repair the damage without improving the cars  condition. 
Our investigator said hed listened to the call recordings  between  Ms B and AXA.  He said 
that Ms B was upset when AXAs representative mentioned that it wasnt their fault they 
couldnt speak  to her when  she was at work. The investigator thought that by waiving her 
excess AXA had already put things  right for Ms B.
 
Ms B disagreed with the investigator. She said the investigator hadnt  considered  the calls 
between AXA and the broker. Ms B requested an ombudsman  review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B said AXA tried to pay her off without getting a garage estimate  for repairs  or discussing 
it with her. In Ms Bs Policy Booklet, it states,  (on page 13):
Ref: DRN296217422 Damage  to the car
This section  provides you with cover for loss or damage to the car and its accessories  
caused by accidental or malicious damage, or vandalism. The insurer  will decide either to;
 repair  the damage themselves; or
 pay to have  the damage  repaired;  or
 pay to replace  what is lost or damaged if this is more cost effective than repairing it; or
 pay you an amount equal  to the loss or damage.
By purchasing this policy you agree  that the insurer  can handle your claim  in this way.
I think this term allowed AXA to settle  Ms Bs claim by making a payment in lieu of repairs. 
Our role is to check  that AXA has treated Ms B fairly  in the decision it has taken. 
AXA sent an engineer who reported on the damage  to Ms Bs car. The engineer  found  that 
the bumper had pre-existing damage as well as the new damage and would need to be 
replaced. Ms B sent AXA estimates for the complete repair to her car. But AXA said it 
wouldnt be possible to repair the incident  damage  without  fixing the pre-existing damage.  
AXA said that under  the policy it wasnt required to repair pre-existing damage.  In Ms Bs 
Policy Booklet, it states,  (on pages  15-16):
What is not covered under section 3
 The insurer will not pay for any losses that are not directly associated with the incident
that caused you to claim, unless expressly  stated in this policy.
 Any part of the cost of repair or replacement which improves the car or its accessories
beyond its condition immediately before  the loss or damage occurred.
I think this term allowed AXA to calculate what the repairs from the incident for which Ms B 
claimed would cost, without including the pre-existing damage. We think  its fair in most 
cases for insurers to only pay for damage caused  by the incident  that is claimed for. AXAs 
engineer noted  the pre-existing damage and estimated the cost of repair of the incident-
related damage  at £425.50. I havent  seen any evidence  to challenge AXAs  position that the 
damage from the incident couldnt be repaired in isolation, or that its estimated cost of repair 
is wrong. And, I think AXA has shown that the other damage isnt related to the claim.
I can see that Ms B wanted AXA to replace her bumper. But because this was already 
damaged, a replacement would have  improved the condition of Ms Bs car, which  is not what 
her insurance policy is intended to do. Therefore, I think it was fair for AXA to only pay for 
the incident damage, and Im satisfied AXA has acted in line with Ms Bs policy.  
AXA said it should have  charged Ms B the policy excess of £450 on the settlement it paid, 
but it didnt do so as it wrongly advised her about  this in a call. I think AXA has been  fair to 
Ms B about this. 
Ms B said that AXAs representatives had been  rude and unhelpful to her. Ive listened  to the 
calls between Ms B and AXA. At one point, Ms B said she couldnt call AXA during non-work 
hours and the representative said this wasnt AXAs fault. I dont think the representative 
intended to be rude,  but she did sound  rather abrupt. And she did tell Ms B there was no 
need for Ms B to be rude, which I dont think she was. I can understand why Ms B was upset 
by this exchange, but I havent heard any other  calls like this.
Ref: DRN29621743I think that any compensation  I might award  for this poor phone call is more than covered by 
Ms Bs £450 excess which AXA has waived, and so I wont award any further compensation 
for this call from AXA.
Ms B wanted us to listen to the calls between AXA and its agent. These havent been 
provided, but in any event, I think AXA has settled  Ms Bs claim fairly.
Ms B said her hire car wasnt suitable and she was entitled to a certain type of car under the 
policy, but it wasnt provided. Ms Bs policy states that a courtesy car will be provided by 
AXAs agents and they wont be obliged to provide  a car of more  than 1 litre engine. The 
policy states that any upgraded car will be at the policyholders expense.  I think the type of 
courtesy car to be provided is clear, and so I think that AXA has treated Ms B fairly here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2962174