K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  is about  a mortgage endowment policy  they took out in 1986. 
They have said they were told they had to have the policy, rather than the repayment 
arrangement they wanted, in order to get the mortgage.  
The policy was sold to them by their mortgage lender and Lloyds Bank  PLC is now 
responsible for that sale. I will refer to Lloyds throughout,  even when activities were 
undertaken by the previous lender.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a low-cost with-profits endowment  policy to protect and act as the 
repayment vehicle  for their mortgage. It had a basic sum assured (which was guaranteed to 
be paid at maturity) of £23,192, life cover and target  value of £52,000  and a term of 
20 years.  
The policy was surrendered in March 2000 for £27,443.04. Mr and Mrs C have told us this is 
when they repaid their mortgage.  The surrender figure was provided by the product provider 
and it confirmed where it was paid and in what format.
Lloyds initially explained that due to the policy having been surrendered so long ago, there  
was no documentation  available  about the policy or the circumstances that led to it being 
taken out.  Lloyds asked that Mr and Mrs C provide  any details of their situation  at the time 
of the sale or any documentation about the policy or mortgage they still had. However, 
without additional  information, Lloyds didnt think  it would be able to look into their complaint 
any further.
When additional information was provided, Lloyds upheld  the complaint as it concluded  its 
adviser may not have given Mr and Mrs C advice that was entirely  appropriate for their 
circumstances. It calculated  whether they had suffered a loss using the method  set out by 
the industry regulator  known as RU89  which  compares the financial position  a consumer 
would have been in with a repayment  mortgage  to that they were actually in with an 
endowment one. In this case, the calculation was done to the date Mr and Mrs C 
surrendered the policy. It showed they hadnt suffered a financial loss.
However, Lloyds apologised for the delays it had caused  in providing Mr and Mrs C with a 
response to their complaint. As such, it offered them £150 for any distress  or inconvenience 
this had caused them.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept what Lloyds had said. They considered the offer of 
compensation for the poor complaint handling  was inadequate.  They also said they failed to 
understand why they had not been financially disadvantaged  they said the figures 
produced bore no relationship to their complaint. When  doing so, they confirmed that the 
endowment policy had only been used  as a mortgage repayment vehicle for their Lloyds 
mortgage  they had changed to a repayment mortgage in 1995 with another  lender. 
The endowment was kept as a savings plan until 2000. They  believe the loss calculation  
should compare  what they got back from the endowment with what they paid for it and add 
to that the interest they paid on the interest only mortgage compared to what they would 
have paid on a repayment one. Mr and Mrs C asked us to consider the complaint.
Ref: DRN26843962One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but concluded Lloyds didnt need  to do 
anything more. Mr and Mrs C didnt accept  this conclusion. They provided a copy of the 
surrender request form they had completed.  Where they were  asked on the form where  to 
pay the surrender  value  to (e.g. themselves or their mortgage lender) they wrote the figure  of 
£23,157.54. They questioned the difference between this figure and that which  the product 
provider confirmed was paid out.  
In addition, they provided a letter from their mortgage lender in March 2000 confirming that 
the surrender  value  had been received from the product provider. Following Mr and Mrs Cs 
request to the lender  for the mortgage  amount to be reduced to £6,500, the lender had used 
£20,758 of the surrender value to reduce  the outstanding balance  on the mortgage to the 
amount required  and send Mr and Mrs C a cheque for £6,682.72. The combination  of the 
amount paid off the mortgage  and that passed on to Mr and Mrs C total £27,440.72. 
Mr and Mrs C appear  to have contacted their lender a few days later to pay off the 
outstanding balance and close the mortgage account.
Following my initial review of the complaint  file, I asked our investigator  to obtain some 
clarification from Mr and Mrs C about  their mortgage arrangements.  They confirmed they 
moved their mortgage to the new lender in April 1995 and at the same time, reduced  the 
amount of borrowing to £30,000. The provided  evidence of the amount of the mortgage 
advance,
Mr and Mrs C also provided a copy of a letter from the endowment  provider dated  
8 November 1999 detailing a surrender value of £22,413.46. This surrender value took into 
account all premium payments made up to and including 18 October 1999.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2019.  In that document I explained my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt  of that document.  
Lloyds has accepted that the endowment policy may not have  been  suitable for 
Mr and Mrs C. As such, I see no reason to reassess that issue and will focus on the matter 
of how redress should be calculated and what surrender value should be used. 
When mortgage endowment complaints started to be generated in significant  numbers the 
then industry regulator set out some guidance for how redress  should  be calculated when a 
complaint was upheld. The general  principle was based on what  a consumer  would have 
done had they not been  sold the inappropriate endowment policy.  In most cases  this would 
be that the consumer(s) would have taken  out a repayment mortgage instead of an interest 
only mortgage with the endowment policy. So redress was to be calculated  by assessing the 
position the consumer(s) were in with the endowment policy  and that which they would have 
been in on a repayment mortgage. Given Mr and Mrs C have said that they wanted a 
repayment mortgage in 1986 I see no reason  not to follow the regulators guidance.
The comparison is formed of two parts  the amount that would have been paid for the 
mortgage and the capital  position. The first of these  is a comparison between how much in 
monthly payments  (and policy premiums) the endowment mortgage cost and an equivalent  
repayment mortgage would have cost.  This will take into account the interest difference  
Mr and Mrs C have highlighted.  The capital position calculation is a comparison between 
the amount that would have been  paid off the repayment mortgage with the value that was 
accumulated in the endowment policy. That is the calculation  Lloyds  has completed.
Ref: DRN26843963However, consumers individual circumstances also need to be taken  into account. In this 
case Mr and Mrs C stopped using  the policy for mortgage purposes around five years before 
they surrendered  the policy. They then kept it as a savings plan. I havent  seen  any evidence 
they did so knowing  about the risks associated with the policy and only appear to have  
thought about surrendering it when problems with endowments started to be highlighted. So 
I am satisfied the redress calculation should cover the entire period the endowment  policy 
was in force. 
As the policy stopped being  used  for mortgage  purposes in 1995,  from that point on it isnt 
appropriate to complete  a mortgage comparison. The redress  calculation  should, therefore, 
be completed as D-E where:
A = the loss identified  by carrying out a loss calculation  in accordance with the regulators 
guidance Handling Mortgage Endowment Complaints (known  as RU89), using a nil 
surrender value. This calculation should be completed for the period up to 28 April 1995.
As Mr and Mrs C were  married at the time, it is reasonable that the cost of a decreasing term 
assurance be included  in the overall cost comparison.
B = a refund of the premiums paid to the policy from the date the policy  ceased to be 
used for the mortgage until it was surrendered.
C = interest* at 8% simple per year on the premiums  in B from the date of payment  to 
the date the policy was surrendered.
D = A + B + C
E = the surrender value of the policy Mr and Mrs C received in 2000.
Interest* at 8% per year should  be added  to D-E from the date of surrender to the date of 
this decision.
I would warn Mr and Mrs C that whilst I consider  the redress  calculation needs to be altered 
slightly to reflect what happened  with their mortgage, the calculation may still result in no 
loss being identified. 
Mr and Mrs C have questioned the surrender value used in Lloyds calculation. They believe 
they received  several thousands  of pounds less than this. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Cs 
comments and evidence  and I am not persuaded that is the case. I have no reason to doubt 
the figure the product  provider gave Lloyds. In addition, the figures contained in the letter 
from the lender  in 2000 would indicate  it received over £27,000 from the product provider, 
which is in line with the amount the product provider stated.  
Whilst other documents have detailed lower amounts, these appear to be surrender values 
calculated at earlier dates. As Mr and Mrs Cs policy was a traditional with-profits policy,  
each time a premium  was paid the surrender value would have increased. In addition,  if 
bonus rates  increased, this would again  have increased the surrender  value.  So I dont think  
the existence of lower  surrender values  support  the surrender value  used by Lloyds being 
incorrect. 
I would also comment that if Mr and Mrs C remain persuaded the figure given by the product 
provider was wrong; they would need to take that up with the product provider. If it were  
Ref: DRN26843964proven they were correct, then they could revert to Lloyds with that evidence at a later date 
for the redress calculation  to be reassessed. However, at present, I am satisfied the 
surrender value given to Lloyds by the product  provider should be used in its redress  
calculation.
Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs C £150  for failings in its complaint handling. Complaints about 
complaint handling are not something that fall within my remit to consider. However, we do 
consider other areas of customer  services  failings and the offer Lloyds has made 
Mr and Mrs C would  appear  consistent  with awards  we make in other  areas of service  
failings. They may wish to reconsider accepting the offer.
In response, Lloyds  pointed out that it had produced its offer based on the information 
Mr and Mrs C had given it  that they had kept their mortgage on an interest only basis 
throughout. It asked  if we had evidence of the change to repayment  in 1995 as we appeared 
to have relied on conflicting information.
This information was provided to Lloyds and it responded further. Essentially it didnt think 
the evidence was sufficient to support Mr and Mrs C having a repayment mortgage. It 
pointed out that the endowment policy had been assigned to the mortgage  and said this 
wouldnt have been the case if it had been  arranged on a repayment basis. Whilst the fact 
that the outstanding capital on the mortgage may have reduced over the years  the mortgage  
was with the new lender, Lloyds considered this might suggest  that only a portion of the 
mortgage was on a repayment basis. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept my conclusions. They said that in no way did Lloyds pay them, 
via their 1995 lender, the sum of £27,443.04 in March  2000 as the account had been closed 
in February 2000  and the title deed  returned to them. In addition,  they asked how a policy 
with a surrender  value  of £22,413.04 in November 1999 could have been worth  £27,443.04  
only four months  later in March 2000. They found it hard to believe this could have been 
caused by bonuses and additional  premiums paid by them. They  suggested their figure  of 
£23,192 was closer to the truth.  They continued  by saying they had no intention of pursuing 
the matter of the surrender value  with the product provider. Nor would they be accepting the 
£150 offered by Lloyds. 
Subsequently, Mr and Mrs C added that they find it inconceivable that a bank can make  
such a mis-selling error and get away  with it as lightly as Lloyds appears  to have done. The 
matter of having to pay the extra premium at the time considerably  stretched them 
financially. The formula  for compensation doesnt  appear to take that into account even if 
Lloyds had not produced  an incorrect offer.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mr and Mrs Cs further 
comments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs C have commented that they dont believe the product provider is right in 
the amount it has said it paid out. They believe the documentation they have provided 
evidences that it was a lower  sum.  There are two documents from the time the policy  was 
paid out  the surrender  form Mr and Mrs C completed and added a figure to and the 
document from their lender confirming how much  it had paid off the mortgage  and how much 
it was sending to Mr and Mrs C as the surplus. The latter clearly  shows the lender received 
in excess of £27,000, not the slightly over £23,000 Mr and Mrs C believe was paid out. I 
Ref: DRN26843965remain satisfied that the correct figure  to use in the calculations is that provided by the 
product provider.
I would also confirm that surrender values can change significantly in a short period of time. 
Firstly, the longer a policy has been in force for, the greater proportion of the basic sum 
assured and accrued annual bonuses will be paid out. That will not necessarily be a linear  
relationship. In addition, a proportionate terminal bonus would also usually be paid.  That 
again would  be affected by the amount of time the policy had been in place. In addition, the 
rate the terminal bonus was paid at may have changed during the period between  the 1999 
surrender value being given and the actual  surrender in March  2000.
Mr and Mrs C have also said their mortgage  was paid off in February  2000  and so my 
conclusions are incorrect. I have referred back to the documents Mr and Mrs C have 
provided and whilst they signed  the surrender form for the endowment policy  in the latter 
part of February 2000,  the letter from their lender confirming the receipt of the endowment 
proceeds was issued in early March, as was their letter to the lender two days later asking  to 
redeem the remaining mortgage balance. 
When deciding on the redress  a financial business  needs to pay a consumer, the aim of that 
redress is to place them, as far as possible,  in the same financial position as they would 
have been in but for the error made by that business. The purpose of redress is not to 
penalise or punish a financial  business   that is the role of the industry regulator. Nor is it to 
place a consumer  in a position of benefit or profit. The redress method detailed above will 
place Mr and Mrs C in the same financial position they would  have been  in had they 
arranged their mortgage in 1986  on a repayment basis.  
However, we can also compensate a consumer for any distress or inconvenience  they 
suffered due to the financial business error.  We will consider in all cases  whether the 
evidence indicates  such an award  should  be made.  In order to do so there has to be 
evidence that there  was distress and/or inconvenience for which the financial business  is at 
fault. Mr and Mrs C have  said paying  the endowment premium was a stretch on their 
finances. They havent said whether this was from the time it was sold or whether it was from 
1995 when they changed lenders and kept it as a savings plan. 
If I were  to consider the situation in 1986  I wouldnt be surprised if Mr and Mrs C found their 
mortgage financially  challenging;  many  did at the time due to high interest  rates. However,  
the fact they got the mortgage at all would indicate  that Lloyds considered  they could afford 
it. Also, had they not been paying  the policy premiums they would have been paying more to 
the mortgage because they would have been repaying some  of the capital every month. I am 
not persuaded there is evidence that would indicate  Lloyds  caused distress or inconvenience  
due to the sale of an endowment-backed mortgage  in 1986 which would justify  the payment 
of further compensation. 
Again, I havent seen  any evidence that Mr and Mrs C should be paid any additional 
compensation for finances being  stretched  from 1995 because they decided  to keep the 
endowment policy when changing to a repayment mortgage. Whilst Lloyds may have 
mis-sold the policy in the first place,  I cant hold it responsible for Mr and Mrs Cs decision to 
keep it between 1995 and 2000   that was their decision  and Lloyds isnt responsible  for the 
consequences.
 
I would also comment that had the existence  of the endowment policy and paying its 
premiums caused Mr and Mrs C problems, I would have expected them to have raised 
Ref: DRN26843966concerns closer to the time, rather than over 30 years after the sale or over 20 years after 
they converted their mortgage. Overall,  I remain satisfied  that additional compensation for 
non-financial loss is not warranted  in this case.
I have also considered Lloyds additional  points. I accept that it made the offer it did in good 
faith, believing it to be the right one at the time.  However, it is clear that the balance of the 
mortgage had reduced noticeably during the slightly less than five years it had been in place 
 this would  indicate capital payments were  being  made. Mr and Mrs Cs recollections  given  
to us, in a very detailed document covering the entire term of the policy,  state  they 
re-mortgaged to a repayment basis in 1995.  As capital  repayments were clearly  being made 
and the amount the mortgage  reduced to following the endowment surrender was a figure  
set by Mr and Mrs C, I am satisfied it is most likely the 1995 mortgage  was arranged on a 
repayment basis.
As for Lloyds comments about the assignment of the endowment to the mortgage indicating 
it was at least partially arranged on an interest only basis, I cant agree. As Lloyds is aware  
the endowment  provides two benefits  life cover  to repay the mortgage during the term and 
an investment vehicle to provide a lump  sum at the end of the term which  can be used as 
the repayment vehicle for a mortgage.  Many lenders, including Lloyds,  recommended 
consumers have in place life cover to protect a repayment mortgage.  Whilst it was not 
usually a requirement of the mortgage being granted by the 1990s, if such  cover  was 
available, it was often  assigned to the mortgage  lender. This is especially so with the 
smaller, more traditional lenders, which continued assigning  policies  as late as the early  
2000s, unlike the larger high street lenders like Lloyds. The assignment ensured the 
proceeds of the policy were used for their intended  purpose. So the fact that the 1995 lender 
assigned the endowment  policy to the mortgage  does  not evidence  it being on an interest 
only basis.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of the 
complaint Lloyds Bank PLC should  complete a loss assessment as D-E as detailed below: If 
any loss is established,  it should pay that amount  to Mr and Mrs C. 
A = the loss identified  by carrying out a loss calculation  in accordance with the regulators 
guidance Handling Mortgage Endowment Complaints (known  as RU89), using a nil 
surrender value. This calculation should be completed for the period up to 28 April 1995.
As Mr and Mrs C were  married at the time, it is reasonable that the cost of a decreasing term 
assurance be included  in the overall cost comparison.
B = a refund of the premiums paid to the policy from the date the policy  ceased to be 
used for the mortgage until it was surrendered.
C = interest* at 8% simple per year on the premiums  in B from the date of payment  to 
the date the policy was surrendered.
D = A + B + C
E = the surrender value of the policy Mr and Mrs C received in 2000.
Ref: DRN26843967Interest* at 8% per year should  be added  to D-E from the date of surrender to the date of 
this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
*If Lloyds Bank PLC considers it is required to deduct income tax from the interest award, it should 
provide Mr and Mrs C with evidence that it has done so and the amount deducted so they can reclaim  
it from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2684396