K820x#14complaint
Miss G and Mr M have complained that Yorkshire Building Society (trading as Chelsea 
Building Society) mis-sold them two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Miss G and Mr M took out the policies  in 1995 and 2002 at the same time as arranging their 
mortgages. Although  they had a joint mortgage,  the PPI was set up just to cover Mr M for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss G and Mr M disagree  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss G and Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
The sale in 1995
Miss G and Mr M took out the policy during a meeting  in which  they were arranging  the 
mortgage. Yorkshire BS doesnt have any documentation from the time of the sale,  which  is 
not surprising  given how long ago it took place. However it has provided a copy of a letter  
sent to the couple on 21 August  1995  explaining that the monthly  premium  will be £8.59 for a 
monthly benefit of £129.
Based on what we know of Yorkshire BSs sales process at the time, the couple would have 
been given an option about whether  or not to take out PPI. Therefore they would have had 
to actively choose  it for it to be applied to their mortgage.
Miss G and Mr M have said that they bought the PPI to protect the mortgage,  so they are not 
suggesting that they werent told about  it. Overall, based on the available  evidence, it seems  
to me that Miss G and Mr M probably  decided to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt 
have to.
I dont know whether Yorkshire BS advised the couple to buy the policy,  but this doesnt 
make a difference to my decision. If it did recommend the policy  to them,  it would have had 
to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Miss G and Mr Ms circumstances 
at the time, the PPI was suitable for them.
Mr M was the main wage  earner, so it seems reasonable  that the policy  was set up just to 
cover him. Mr M cant remember if he would have received  sick pay from his job. Regardless 
of this, the policy would have paid out in addition  to sick pay and potentially for longer than 
Mr M would have received full pay for. Although the couple had an endowment policy, this 
was to be used  to pay off the mortgage  at the end of the term. So they wouldnt have wanted 
to cash it in early. And the couple  havent  mentioned having any other savings that they 
could fall back on.
Ref: DRN29756602So it seems  to me that they had a need  for the policy and could have benefited  from it. A 
mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting  on a 
mortgage can be very serious. So it wouldnt  be surprising if Miss G and Mr M had an 
interest in protecting their repayments.
Miss G and Mr M have said they werent given any information about the PPI. Its possible 
that they didnt  know  everything about  the policy. But I think they must  have  known 
something about it  that it covered their mortgage repayments  if Mr M was unable  to work  
because I dont think they would have agreed  to take it out without knowing anything  about it 
at all.
Its possible that Yorkshire BS could  have provided more information  about  the policy, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected  by any of those 
things. For instance  he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition. As I think  that Miss G 
and Mr M had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that better 
information would have caused  them to change their minds. So they are no worse  off as a 
result of anything Yorkshire BS may have  done  wrong, so there  is nothing  that Yorkshire BS 
needs to do to put things  right.
The sale in 2002
Miss G and Mr M said they couldnt  remember how this policy was sold to them,  but it was 
again in a meeting with Yorkshire BS when they were  discussing a re-mortgage. This time 
Yorkshire BS does have  some of the paperwork from the sale.
Ive seen the Mortgage Application form dated 7 March 2002. There was a specific  section of 
the form about insurance and with regard to PPI, the couple were given the choice to take 
PPI, not take it, or to say that they were arranging cover elsewhere.  The box saying  they 
would like to take the PPI has been ticked. 
Yorkshire BS then sent them  a letter on 26 March, thanking them for choosing PPI, and 
explaining that the cost was £5.43  per month  for a benefit of £115  per month.
This doesnt appear to have been an advised sale as Yorkshire BS didnt recommend the 
policy to them. However, it still needed to check that the couple  were eligible for the policy.  
On the mortgage  application form, the employment details section for Miss G has been  left 
blank, suggesting  that she wasnt working at that time. Miss G has told us that she was 
working part-time in 2002. That would explain why the policy was set up just in Mr Ms name 
as Miss G wouldnt  have been  eligible for it if she was working less than 16 hours per week.
Mr M was still working for the same employer,  with the same level of sick pay and no 
mention of any savings.  So it follows that I again think that they could have benefitted  from 
the policy at what  would  have been a difficult time.
Again, its possible  that Yorkshire BS could have  provided more information  about the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M still wasnt  affected  by any of those 
things. As I think that Miss G and Mr M had an interest in the policy  and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that better  information would have caused them to change their minds. 
Ref: DRN29756603This means  that Yorkshire BS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G 
and Mr M. But Yorkshire BS has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss G and Mr M 
because:
When the policy was sold,  Yorkshire  BS expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss G and Mr 
M about  that. Because Yorkshire BS didnt  tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire BS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Yorkshire Building  Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss G and Mr M.
But, in relation to the policy sold in 2002, Yorkshire  Building Society  does have to pay back  
to Miss G and Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. I understand  it has already done  this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2975660