K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the review  on a maximum  cover basis   applied to their 
whole of life policy by Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance Limited (the business).  
background
The business hasnt  upheld their complaint. In summary, it says:
The increases  offered  in its review packs were for a maximum basis.  
Mr and Mrs H couldve requested  a quote  to sustain on a standard basis and were  
encouraged to seek advice from their adviser. 
The original documentation sent to Mr and Mrs Hs Independent Financial Adviser 
(IFA) confirmed that the original quote it produced for the policy  was on standard  
basis using a 7% mid-growth rate. 
As the insurer (and not the seller)  the business doesnt know  why the plan was set up 
on a particular basis  the option  it provides  is always on a maximum basis, and 
made this clear in the documentation.  
When it receives an application its provided with the premium and sum assured the 
customer has requested. Theres no reference to any discussions that may have 
taken place with their adviser and it has no such record on its file. 
The onus  is on the customer/adviser to review  their ongoing need throughout the 
lifetime of the policy.  
Its responsibility is to review the policy and increase the premium if the cover is no 
longer sustainable. 
The terms of this policy allow for a 10% annual increase to the policy cover and 
premium which was made clear in the policy documentation provided  when  the cover 
was taken out. 
It has reviewed  the policy in line with the point of sale documents.  
If Mr and Mrs H had requested a quote for an increase on a standard  basis  this 
would have been provided.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
The business wasnt wrong to apply the maximum review basis to the policy. 
Hes unable to look at the suitability of the policy as the business wasnt  responsible 
for the sale of the policy.
In response to his enquires the business  has made clear that it wouldnt have carried 
out reviews on a standard basis. 
He cant say the business  has done wrong by not doing something Mr and Mrs H 
would never have been entitled to. 
Going forward it was up to the Mr and Mrs H their IFA to contact the business about 
any changes.  
The policy has been administered  in line with the insurers terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators conclusions and have asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. Theyve asked a number of questions which were answered in turn 
by the adjudicator as follows:
Ref: DRN28874442There arent just three distinct options to set up the plan but a spectrum  and cover  
combinations which  can be anywhere  between the minimum and maximum basis   
dependent on the customers  needs.  
Mr and Mrs H can speculate which policy would have suited them,  but the product 
literature made clear about what to expect from an annual  review offer. 
It was up to Mr and Mrs H and their IFA to notify  the insurer of any changes.  
The policy literature provided to Mr and Mrs H wasnt misleading or unclear.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Mr and Mrs H say Im not persuaded the business has done anything  wrong.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Hs strength  of feeling  about this matter. 
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr and Mrs H and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Because the business wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy Im unable  to look at the 
suitability of the policy.  
As the insurer, the business has just administered the policy in the way that it was instructed 
to. Im satisfied its documentation  made clear that it offered the policy  on a maximum cover  
basis, so Mr and Mrs H knew or ought reasonably to have known  directly or indirectly  
through their IFA the basis upon  which the reviews would be carried  out. 
Im mindful the business has made  clear that it wasnt  responsible for the sale of the policy,  it 
doesnt know the basis upon  which this particular policy was selected and isnt privy to any 
of the sales discussions  Mr and Mrs H had with their IFA beforehand.
Im conscious Mr and Mrs H are broadly aware  of how these policies work. But in terms of 
the questions  theyve asked about cost of cover  and premium increase  its important  to 
reiterate that at the start of the policy, the amounts  of the cover  and monthly  premium  are 
based on assumptions about  a number of different factors,  including the future  cost of life 
cover and investment  performance,  that arent known at the start. 
Ref: DRN28874443So illustrations can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums  are likely to be, they 
offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of or increased cost of the premiums.    
In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy is split two ways.  The first part is used to 
pay for the cost of cover in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. So, 
its not practicable to invest more  of the premium.  
The cost of the cover is also not fixed and actually increases with age. This doesnt  mean  
the policy is age discriminatory it just takes account of the higher risk the insurer will have 
resulting from customers increased age. In this case the hope is that the investment 
element will grow enough to fund the shortfall  when the policy reaches the point that the cost 
of cover becomes  greater  than the premium.  But again there are no guarantees. 
Policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. But at each  review, the insurer also needs to make new assumptions about 
the cost of cover and investment performance in the future. Thats why its virtually 
impossible to predict future premium increases and percentages. 
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review,  usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed  usually  meaning the policyholders will be offered the choice of either paying a 
higher premium to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting  reduced cover for the same  
premium. This explains the increases but also why Mr and Mrs H are concerned about future 
affordability.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt what  they want to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business  to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give 
Mr and Mrs H what they want. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2887444