K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) continued to chase him for 
payments on a car finance agreement even  after theyd allowed him to return the car and 
upheld his complaint. He says they shouldnt have  reported issues to his credit  file and that 
he was unable to work  for four months  as he didnt have a car. Hed like to be compensated 
for his time, have his credit file amended  and not to be chased for payment in the future.
background
Mr M took receipt of a used car in November 2017. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Startline but had problems with the car. The turbo charger was 
repaired because of low pressure issues in the exhaust system but when Mr M got the car 
back he noted that the oil pressure warning  light was on. He told FMS he was unhappy with 
the repair and for the avoidance of doubt  an independent engineers  report  was requested. 
The engineer said there was a fault with the big end bearing that, given the relatively low 
mileage covered, was likely to have  been developing when Mr M took receipt of the car. So, 
FMS agreed to allow Mr M to reject the vehicle  and terminate his finance agreement  with 
them. They added, however, that they should  be allowed to retain the two monthly 
instalments Mr M had made towards his finance  agreement, as compensation for the 
mileage he had completed  his fair use of the vehicle. 
But it wasnt  until about a month later in mid march  that they tried to collect  the car and as
Mr M had left it with the garage, that had identified further problems, that garage levied a 
charge of £600 to store the vehicle.
It took until July for FMS to actually unwind the agreement. In the meantime Mr M had 
stopped paying towards  his finance  agreement and FMS therefore  reported the missed 
payments to his credit  file. 
Mr M says they shouldnt have done this and that the delay in getting the deal terminated led 
him to miss work as he had no transport  to get there.
Startline didnt think they needed to take any further action so Mr M brought his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator thought they should  remove any reference to the agreement  
from his credit file and that they should  recognise the inconvenience, the delay in terminating 
the agreement, had caused by paying Mr M £250 in compensation. He noted that theyd  
withheld two monthly  instalments and thought they were entitled to withhold some  money  to 
pay for the fair use of the vehicle Mr M had. Whilst he understood Mr M disagreed hed done 
many miles in the car he didnt find any evidence to dispute the mileage being claimed and 
he therefore thought Startline were  within their rights to retain the money  they had. 
But Startline didnt agree  with the investigators view. They said theyd incurred storage costs 
for the car because Mr M hadnt told them  these  were being  charged by the garage and they 
suggested delays  had not been  as extensive as suggested. They said theyd been  waiting  
for the dealership, Mr M or the independent  engineer and that, whilst theyd tried,  they hadnt 
been able to discuss the complaint with Mr M since the end of March.  So they asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman but they did agree that the credit  file should be amended  to 
remove any reference to the agreement.
Ref: DRN24609892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the investigators recommendations are sensible. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant  law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and as its agreed it wasnt  Startline 
are responsible and needed to rectify the situation. As the car wasnt  repaired satisfactorily 
the relevant legislation  suggests that Mr M should have been allowed to reject the car and 
terminate his finance agreement and thats  what Startline correctly agreed  to.
the credit  file 
As Mr M stopped making payments towards  his finance agreement  before the situation was 
resolved in April,  Startline  were right to report the missed payments to his credit file. But they 
shouldnt have reported anything subsequently and as Mr Ms complaint was found  in his 
favour they should  now amend his credit record to show the agreement  was settled and that 
no further money is owed.
the mileage
I can see that the mileage  recorded  in the contractual information was 84,000  on 
commencement of the deal and that the independent engineer reported the mileage as 
85,433. I understand Mr M disputes  this as hes said he only completed a few short trips but 
in the absence of any other information  I think I have  to assume this is the completed 
mileage. Startline have  retained two payments which is just over £200 and I dont think  this 
is unreasonable in the circumstances for fair usage.
the storage charges
Mr M couldnt drive the vehicle to the dealership as it wasnt  drivable and it wouldnt seem 
fair to ask him to go to further trouble and arrange  deliver. Hed already been 
inconvenienced. The delays in collection were not Mr Ms concern. The storage costs were 
high because the collection of the car wasnt completed promptly  so I think its right that 
Startline foot the bill and not Mr M.
compensation
Its clear that Mr M has been  inconvenienced. I agree with the investigator who says it 
appears theres been around one months inexplicable delay  and that most of that is when 
the car was awaiting collection  in March.  As a result I think  the £250  compensation  
suggested is reasonable given the inconvenience  thats been  experienced.
Ref: DRN24609893my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Startline Motor  Finance 
Limited to:
amend Mr Ms credit record  to show  the agreement as settled with no further  money 
owed. For clarity  any default or missed payments should  be removed.
pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes been  put 
to
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2460989