K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains Santander UK Plc irresponsibly approved  her application for a loan while 
she was a pensioner.
Mrs S is represented by her son in bringing  this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
background
In September  2017 Mrs S applied in branch  for a loan with Santander.  Mrs S said the 
purpose of her loan was to move house and pay off other debts.  At the time she applied, Mrs 
S was a pensioner. The loan she applied for was for £3000,  which was to be repaid at the 
rate of £110.17  per month over 36 months.
Mrs S paid her loan each  month until June 2018, when she missed her monthly payment. 
She spoke  with Santander  that month and discussed her income  and expenditure and how 
affordable the loan was. Mrs S agreed  to pay an extra amount to cover Junes payment over 
the term of the loan.
In July 2018 the direct debit wasnt collected.  And this led to another  missed payment.  Her 
account was closed in August and this loan is currently in arrears. 
Mrs S complained to Santander that she didnt  think it shouldve  loaned her the money it did. 
She told it she didnt think  he had met the affordability requirements. And she said she had 
been left in financial difficulties because she was struggling to pay for food and bills.
But after Santander  investigated this complaint it didnt uphold it. It said it thought the checks 
it had carried out at the time were proportionate to the borrowing. And it didnt think  it had 
loaned money  to Mrs S irresponsibly because it had satisfied  itself that the loan was 
affordable to her. So, it maintained that the decision to approve this loan was appropriate.
Mrs S wasnt  satisfied  with Santanders  response  and brought her complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator looked into this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. They thought  
Santander shouldve  done more to check the affordability of this loan because  it had access  
to Mrs S banking records as she was already a Santander customer.  So, they 
recommended that Santander refund the interest  Mrs S had paid on the loan and arrange  an 
interest free repayment plan. They also thought Santander should remove  any default 
marker and pay Mrs S £200  for the trouble and upset this had caused.  But,  Santander didnt 
agree to this. So it asked  for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The crux of Mrs S complaint is that she thinks  Santander  loaned money to her irresponsibly 
because it shouldnt have  approved her loan. So, Ive thought about whether it did enough to 
assess whether this loan was affordable  to her.
Ref: DRN26433882This loan was applied for in branch. Santander  said Mrs S told it she had a monthly income  
of £684 from her state pension. It also said she had provided it with information that her 
monthly outgoings were  £200. This left her with disposable income of £484 per month.  So, it 
said it assessed Mrs S application  for any potential affordability concerns and that none  
were identified.
Mrs S wanted to borrow a significant  amount compared to her income.  Santander was aware 
of Mrs S retirement status. So it knew she didnt have a large income. Mrs S thinks  this 
shouldve meant  her application  for a loan was declined. But someones status as a 
pensioner wouldnt  mean  Santander should  decline a loan application for that reason  alone. 
Instead, it should consider a request for borrowing  from a pensioner  much  the same  as it 
would any other customer. That is, it should  think about whether  the loan is affordable.
Santander wasnt able to provide evidence of the income and expenditure information it said 
it was given by Mrs S when she applied for this loan.  Its told us about the process  it uses  to 
assess the affordability of a loan. But, I havent seen evidence that it undertook  a detailed 
income and expenditure assessment before it approved Mrs S loan application.
Santander said it had based its decision to lend to Mrs S using information she had 
provided, her credit  file and that it had acted  in accordance with its lending policy.  And it said 
it undertook additional creditworthiness and affordability assessments because it contacted 
the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to ascertain  a cost of living  figure.  It said,  having 
done so, it was satisfied the loan it approved was affordable to Mrs S.
Mrs S banked with Santander  at the time she applied  for her loan. So, Santander  had 
access to information  about how she was managing her current  account.  And it couldve 
cross referenced the information Mrs S gave it about  her expenditure with what  her current  
account showed. But Santander said it doesnt  review bank statements to determine  
affordability. Instead it used ONS  data.  I can understand why Santander looked  at 
information from ONS. But, in Mrs Ss individual circumstances here, her income  was limited 
and the loan was for a large amount of money   relative to her income. So I think  in the face 
of this, if Santander wanted to accurately assess whether this loan was affordable to Mrs S it 
couldve reviewed her bank statements to check how much disposable income  she had 
available to her each month.  I realise  its not Santanders process to do so, but any process 
like this may, in certain circumstances,  lead to an unfair outcome for a customer.  And this is 
what I think has happened here.
I think its reasonable for Santander to have  looked at Mrs S account information.  And 
because it didnt I dont  think  it did enough to assess the affordability of this loan.  I say this 
because, having seen  Mrs S bank statements for the 12 months prior to her loan 
application, it is clear  that her monthly outgoings  are higher than the figure  Santander used 
here. Santander was right to accept the information  Mrs S gave in good  faith,  but I also have 
to consider the fact that it had access to information  which wouldve shown that the 
information she provided wasnt representative  of her situation. And in the months leading up 
to Mrs S applying for this loan I can see that she was regularly using  her overdraft facility 
too. So, Im not persuaded this loan was affordable to Mrs S or that Santander responsibly 
lent to her responsibly. 
I think that the activity  on Mrs S current account  shouldve suggested to Santander that she 
might have been struggling  with her finances.  And I also think  if Santander had looked at 
how Mrs S was managing  her account it wouldve, most likely, had concerns about whether  
Ref: DRN26433883Mrs S would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way. Its likely this wouldve deterred 
it from lending her the money it did.
I can see Santander undertook a detailed income and expenditure assessment with Mrs S in 
June 2018. But, like our adjudicator I dont  think this mitigates the fact that Santander didnt 
review Mrs S bank account  before approving this loan.
From the evidence Ive seen Mrs S contacted Santander on 11 June 2018.  In this call she 
explained that she was struggling  to make payments to her loan because her monthly  
payments werent  affordable. At this stage Mrs S disposable income was thought to be £58. 
Santander asked  Mrs S to think carefully about  the accuracy of the information she had 
provided to it because it asked her to contact it again the following week to discuss  her 
ability to repay her loan.  So, I think Santander  had concerns that Mrs S wasnt sure of her 
monthly commitments. And I can see that Santander  referred Mrs S to debt charities. 
Santander said it considered refinancing Mrs S loan after she missed  her payment in June 
2018. But it said because  she had only had her loan since  September 2017 this wasnt  
something it could offer her. Ive seen that it contacted Mrs S on 16 June 2018, when it 
undertook a further income and expenditure assessment  with her. At this stage it was 
thought Mrs S had disposable income of £42.34  per month  after she had met her 
commitments to Santander and other companies  to whom she owed money. Santander 
thought the loan repayments were still affordable to Mrs S. But, I think it was becoming very 
clear how much Mrs S was struggling  to continue to pay this loan and to make ends meet 
each month. And, taking  everything into account, Im not persuaded Mrs S had sufficient 
disposable income to repay this loan.
Overall, I think Santander didnt do enough to check that it was likely that Mrs S would be 
able to repay this loan sustainably, or without  increasing indebtedness. So, I dont think  it 
acted fairly  here. 
To put matters right, I think  Santander should  refund the interest Mrs S paid on this loan. 
And, given  Mrs S financial circumstances, Santander needs to engage with Mrs S to discuss  
payment options  moving forward. I also dont think its fair for Santander to apply a default 
marker here.  It lent to Mrs S irresponsibly and she told Santander  she was experiencing 
financial difficulties early  on in this loan. I also think an award of £200 compensation fairly 
reflects the upset  this lending caused Mrs S here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should:
-Refund the interest Mrs S paid on this loan;
-Apply these refunds  to Mrs S outstanding loan balance;
-Ensure the current  loan isnt subject to further  interest;
-Remove any adverse  information recorded about this loan from Mrs S credit  file; and
-Speak  to Mrs S to try and come  to a mutually agreeable way forward with the loan 
payments;
-Pay £200 compensation directly  to Mrs S for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Ref: DRN26433884Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2643388