K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that NewDay  Ltd gave him incorrect information about  the balance  on his 
account. He says as a result hes incurred additional  interest, which hed like waived  and any 
adverse information  recorded against his credit  record removed.
background 
On 16 August Mr G called NewDay to discuss the repayments on his credit card. He was 
offered a payment plan but decided not to accept this and instead to pay off the balance. He 
says he was given  a figure by the advisor and paid this off in 2 instalments, paying  
£9,999.00 that day and £1,331.29 the next. His direct debit was then cancelled.
On 30 August NewDay wrote to Mr G to say his direct debit had been cancelled  but that 
there was still an outstanding  balance of £529 and setting  out various payment options. No 
payment was made before  the account was closed in November 2018.
Mr G says he asked what he needed to pay to clear his account and paid what  he was told. 
He doesnt agree that there is any further  money due and feels  NewDay  has been  unfairly  
chasing him for payment.
Mr Gs unhappy that whats  happened has affected  his credit score  and has prevented him 
from obtaining credit elsewhere.  Hed like any adverse information removed from his credit 
file. And he says hes had financial problems and feels NewDay  hasnt taken this into 
account.
NewDay acknowledged that when Mr G called in, the advisor had given him the wrong  
information. It apologised for that and offered him £25 for the inconvenience. In addition it 
agreed to waive  any interest  added  for September and October as well as removing any 
adverse credit markers  for those  months.  It also refunded  the late payment fee of £12 that 
had been added to his account. 
But it didnt agree to waive all of the remaining balance. It said its letter  of 30 August showed 
there was still an outstanding  balance so Mr G would have known he needed to pay this off. 
It had written several times since then as well as providing monthly  statements but Mr G 
hadnt made any further payments. As a result, interest was added  to the balance in line with 
the accounts terms and conditions. It didnt  agree to refund this or to remove the information 
it had reported  to the credit reference agencies but it offered Mr G a further £30 for the 
misinformation hed been given.
Our adjudicator felt NewDay  had dealt with the complaint fairly. Although  it had given Mr G 
an incorrect figure when  he called in, it had written  to him shortly  after and this letter had 
shown the amount still owing. And thered been  other letters since  then so she felt Mr G was 
aware there  was a balance outstanding. Mr G had had the benefit of this money so it 
wouldnt be reasonable to ask NewDay to write  off. It had however refunded  Mr G two 
months interest and a late payment fee as well as removing adverse credit markers for those  
months. She felt this was reasonable. And although negative information  had been recorded 
against Mr Gs credit file from November onwards, the information  was an accurate  reflection 
of what was happening on Mr Gs account so she wouldnt be asking NewDay to remove  it.
Mr G disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN21024042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Ive seen Mr G called in to discuss his account.  He was struggling  with the payments and 
was looking for some  options. But he didnt want to accept the payment plan so instead he 
decided to pay off the balance in full. Unfortunately as set out above, the advisor  made a 
mistake and the figure she quoted  was wrong. So although Mr G paid what he was told, this 
didnt clear the balance.
I can understand why Mr G feels unhappy at what happened. It was a mistake and it 
shouldnt have happened. Having  said that however I cant  agree NewDay is responsible for 
all the problems that have happened  since then.
Mr G made  his payments  mid August. On 30 August NewDay  wrote  to him and in this letter it 
set out what was still owing on his account. At this point Id have expected  Mr G to have 
contacted NewDay  to query this but he didnt  do so. Ive seen Mr G says he felt it was a 
mistake as the amount hed paid matched what he calculated was due. But the statement of 
9 August shows an outstanding balance of £11,859.32 which  is significantly more  than the 
£11,330.21 hed paid to clear the balance so I cant agree the figures were broadly similar.
Ive also seen that NewDay sent several  letters and statements to Mr G after hed made his 
payment, all of which showed  there was still a balance outstanding. On that basis,  and even 
allowing for the earlier mistake, I think Mr G would have known his account had not been 
cleared and that further payments were required.
Ive seen that when Mr G complained, NewDay admitted its mistake and agreed to write  off 
the interest for September and October  as well as removing any adverse credit markers  for 
those months. I think that was fair and took into account the inconvenience  and confusion it 
had caused. But it also explained why there was still a balance on his account and what he 
needed to do to clear  this. Mr G hasnt  done  so and for that reason I cant  agree NewDay  is 
wrong to take steps to obtain payment or to continue  to add interest in line with the accounts 
terms and conditions.
Mr G says whats happened has had a significant effect on his credit  score and his ability to 
get other finance  elsewhere. But at the end of the day, NewDay  is required to ensure it 
provides accurate information about  its customer to the credit  reference agencies. As the 
information its provided is correct, I cant reasonably ask it to remove  this.
Ive seen what Mr G says about his financial problems and I can understand this has been a 
difficult time for him. But once NewDay became aware of Mr Gs financial problems in 
August 2018,  it responded  sympathetically  and positively and offered him a repayment plan. 
I think this was reasonable and in line with what Id have expected it to have done. Mr G 
decided not to accept and to repay  most of the balance so I dont consider there was much  
more it could have  done at that point. And I consider the steps it took to resolve  the 
complaint were fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN21024043I realise this isnt the decision Mr G was hoping for but for the reasons  give,  I think the steps 
NewDay has taken to resolve the complaint  are fair. Its already put into effect  the steps 
offered in its letter of 13 November  but its now offered Mr G a further £30 for its initial  
mistake, which I see Mr Gs accepted.  That seems  reasonable to me for the inconvenience 
caused and Ill be directing NewDay to pay this to Mr G if it hasnt already done  so.
For the reasons  given  above, however, I cant agree NewDay should waive the balance 
outstanding or remove the information recorded against Mr Gs credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and if it has not already done  so, I 
direct NewDay Limited to pay Mr G a further £30 for the inconvenience caused  by its 
mistake.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2102404