K822xComplaint
Money was fraudulently withdrawn from Mrs Gs account with TSB Bank plc. She 
complained because TSB didnt sort it out promptly, didnt respond  to her letters and phone 
calls, and gave  her poor customer  service.
Mrs G, who is represented by her son, would  like:
-TSB to admit it was wrong;
-a written apology;
-her credit  score  returned  to the situation before the frauds; and 
-more compensation.
Background 
Between July 2017 and October  2017, money  was fraudulently taken  out of Mrs Gs account 
with TSB, by someone who was living in Mrs Gs home at the time.  The fraudster obtained 
access to Mrs Gs bank details, registered  for internet banking and moved Mrs Gs money 
into accounts in the fraudsters own name.
At the end of October  2017, Mrs G found out what had been happening  and visited  a TSB 
branch. She was unhappy with the customer service, saying that she was initially  told to go 
and look at her bank statements. She went back, and was unhappy that her request to talk to 
someone in private,  and her request to speak to a manager, were both refused. When  Mrs G 
did speak to a manager, she was warned she might  not get all her money back. Mrs G was 
given a phone number to report the fraud   but direct debits continued to be taken out, even 
after shed reported the issue. Mrs G reported these  direct debits too, in March 2018.  
TSB didnt  respond  adequately to Mrs Gs complaint. She wrote  four times between  
December 2017  and March 2018,  and rang several times too, but didnt get a reply. She said 
TSB phoned her once,  but asked her security questions which  the fraudster had set up  so 
she couldnt answer them. She wrote again  in May 2018.
TSB did refund the payments, debit card spending,  and direct  debits. But it didnt send 
Mrs G a final response letter replying  to her complaint. 
Mrs G, represented by her son, complained to this service. She told us what had happened, 
and said that TSB hadnt replied to her, had refused  to discuss it with her because the 
fraudster had changed the security  details, and had ruined  her credit score. Mrs G also told 
us about health issues which had been worsened  by the worry about  TSBs failure to reply 
and sort the problem  out.
The investigator upheld  Mrs Gs complaint. He obtained TSBs account of what  had 
happened. TSB said it hadnt got the crime number until 24 November 2017, and it said 
Mrs G hadnt reported  some of the transactions - the direct debit part of the fraud - until 
March 2018. TSB also pointed out that Mrs G couldnt have been monitoring her bank  
statements between July and October  2017  when the fraud had happened.
Ref: DRN28004902But the investigator said that after Mrs G visited the branch in autumn 2017, and told the 
bank about the fraud  transactions she knew about,  TSB hadnt  passed this on to its fraud 
department. And it hadnt investigated  Mrs Gs complaint until 27 March 2018,  when it 
refunded transactions. So the investigators  view was that TSB should:
-pay Mrs G £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience;
-add 8% interest  to the fraudulent transactions which it had refunded;  and 
-amend Mrs Gs credit  file, which Mrs G had said had been affected.
Mrs G wasnt  satisfied. Her representative confirmed that TSB had now refunded all the 
disputed money, but said that Mrs G expected  a written apology from TSB and the branch 
managers who had treated Mrs G so badly. TSB hadnt written to her despite several letters, 
visits to the bank and phone  calls,  which had led to medical problems. Mrs Gs 
representative also said that she wanted  TSB to put her credit score  back to what it was 
before the money had been  stolen. The representative initially said he thought £10,000 
compensation was fitting, but later amended  this to £2,000.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts  of what happened arent  disputed. So the question for me to consider is what  
compensation would be fair and reasonable. 
This service looks at two aspects of compensation: financial loss, and non-financial loss. 
Looking first at financial  loss, Mrs Gs representative  told us that TSB had refunded all the 
fraudulent payments. But I note that TSB didnt make any payment for interest on that 
financial loss. Mrs G was without the use of her money for many months. So I find that TSB 
should pay Mrs G interest  on the refunded fraudulent transactions. This should be calculated 
at 8% simple from the dates Mrs G reported  the problem, to the dates when the bank 
refunded the money. 
Turning to non-financial loss  the distress and inconvenience caused  here - its clear that 
TSB provided poor service to Mrs G. It shouldnt have taken from the end of October  2017 to 
the end of March  2018  to refund the transactions  which Mrs G initially  reported. TSB had the 
crime number from the police by 24 November 2017  but it still delayed.  And because  TSB 
didnt completely block the accounts  at that point, fraudulent direct debits were  paid out too. 
I also accept Mrs Gs word that branch staff werent helpful and considerate at what was a 
difficult and worrying time.  It was particularly poor that TSB repeatedly failed  to reply to 
Mrs Gs worried  letters, phone calls or visits to the branches.
Ive carefully considered  the amount of compensation which  TSB should pay Mrs G for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its delays and failure to sort out the fraudulent  activity  
on Mrs Gs accounts. Clearly  it was very upsetting to suffer both the worry of the fraud,  and 
the failings of TSB to sort things out. I note what Ive been told about Mrs Gs health issues, 
too, which would have made  the worry much more  significant. So I find that TSB should  pay 
Mrs G compensation for the distress and inconvenience which it caused her. But Mrs Gs 
representatives request  for £10,000 or £2,000 are out of line with the figures  which this 
service would award for similar cases.  I find that £500 is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN28004903Looking at the other aspects which Mrs G has said shed like as the outcome to her complaint:
I consider that its entirely fair that TSB should send Mrs G a formal written apology  for all 
the mistakes and very poor customer service  it provided. Mrs G would  specifically like TSB 
to admit it acted wrongly in dealing with the problem. 
Mrs G has asked for her credit score  to be corrected by TSB, so it shows  the same as it did 
before the fraud. I dont have  details  of Mrs Gs credit file, so I cant see specifically what 
markers TSB may have put on her credit file. However I consider  that it would be fair and 
reasonable for TSB to remove any such markers.  This relates,  of course,  only to any 
adverse information  recorded on the credit  file which resulted specifically from the fraudsters 
actions on Mrs Gs TSB accounts, and not on whatever any other financial institutions may 
have recorded.  I note that Mrs Gs representative has said Mrs G doesnt expect to have to 
do this herself. In fact any markers could only be amended by the bank. The way the system 
works is that financial institutions send records to the credit agencies  but financial 
institutions dont  have the power to set any specific credit  score.  Credit scores  are 
determined by the credit agencies,  after taking  into account all financial dealings an 
individual has. Mr Gs representative will want to be assured that TSB has corrected and 
removed any adverse markers  the bank may have put on Mrs Gs credit  file. So Id suggest 
that he keeps  a check on what happens with Mrs Gs credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  TSB Bank  plc to:
-send Mrs G a formal  written apology for the mistakes and very poor customer service 
it provided.  Mrs G would specifically like TSB to admit it acted wrongly  in dealing with 
the problem; 
-remove any adverse credit information which it reported against Mrs Gs credit file as a 
result of the fraudulent activity on her accounts;
-pay Mrs G interest on the fraudulent transactions which it failed to refund promptly. This 
should be calculated  at 8% simple  from the dates Mrs G reported  the problem, to the 
dates when  the bank refunded the money;
-pay Mrs G £500 compensation for the considerable  distress and inconvenience caused 
by its delays,  poor customer service, and failures to respond to Mrs Gs repeated 
contacts and requests  for help with the fraud problem.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.  
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2800490