K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Santander  UK Plc repeatedly allowed a family member  to 
access their account and transfer  funds. 
Background
Mr and Mrs S have  a joint account  with Santander  and in February  2019  they contacted the 
bank to say sums totalling £150  had been  transferred to another  account  without their 
permission. Santander  says the funds  were transferred to another account Mr S holds in 
joint names with a family member. Santander  also says Mr and Mrs S joint account has 
been used to receive and forward benefit payments for the family member. 
Santander started a fraud investigation  and it came to light that a close family member  had 
accessed their account over the phone. Santander  said it would begin fraud proceedings 
against the family member but Mr S withdrew the claim. Santander  had previously refunded 
the £150 taken but went  on to debit it again after Mr S said he didnt  want  to proceed.  
In March 2019, despite promises that a telephone banking number would be required to 
access the account, additional  funds  were transferred out of Mr and Mrs S account. 
Santander paid them £50 on 23 February 2019 to apologise. On 23 May 2019  Santander  
paid a further £150 because the situation  had occurred again.  Santander said that its 
advisors had failed to follow the right procedure and hadnt checked the telephone banking  
number. 
On 3 June 2019 Santander  paid a further  £60 because of problems Mr and Mrs S 
experienced during branch visits to set up a voice recognition service. 
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. 
Theyre requested that the funds transferred from their account by their family member be 
returned and say that the £210  Santander has paid isnt fair. But the investigator thought 
Santander had dealt with their complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr and Mrs S asked  to appeal so their complaint  has been  referred  to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S are upset. Theyve explained that a close family  
member is vulnerable and has repeatedly gained access to their joint account despite  being 
assured by Santander that additional security  measures had been put in place. 
However, I have to balance that against  the other  information Ive seen. I can see how 
stressful and upsetting this situation  has been.  But, overall, I think Santander has dealt  with 
the complaint  fairly. I know that will seem harsh to Mr and Mrs S and Id like to explain why 
Ive reached that view.  
Ive looked at the notes from February  2019  and can see Santander was willing  to proceed 
with a formal fraud investigation. It established  who accessed the account and how. The 
next step would have  been to have taken  action which may have impacted the banking 
Ref: DRN22569022facilities available to their family member  and could have had serious  implications. Mr S told 
Santander he didnt  want to proceed  with a formal investigation so it was dropped and the 
refund was reversed.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S feel Santanders decision to reverse the 
refund was unfair. But after Mr S withdrew the request for a fraud investigation the account  
was no longer due a refund. I think Santanders  decision to reverse  the refund was 
reasonable. 
Santander said it introduced additional  security measures to protect the account. But its call 
handlers didnt  check the telephone banking number which  meant the issue occurred again  
in March and May 2019. Santander apologised to Mr and Mrs S and paid them a total of 
£150 for the error. It also told them about the voice recognition service and how it could be 
set up in branch.  I know the situation was upsetting  and particularly frustrating as Santander 
had failed to follow its own guidance. But I think Santanders decision to pay Mr and Mrs S 
£150 fairly reflects the impact of those errors. I can see Mr and Mrs S made repeated  calls to 
Santander and Ive taken that into account  when considering the level of compensation paid.  
Santander also accepts  that it provided unclear information and that Mr and Mrs S were  
treated poorly  when  they visited the branch  to set up the voice recognition service. 
Santander paid a further £60 due to the problems Mr and Mrs S experienced when trying to 
set up the voice  recognition  service. I agree that wasting time making branch visits is 
frustrating but I think the £60 paid is reasonable based on what  Mr and Mrs S have told us. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but I havent  been persuaded to uphold their complaint. 
Im satisfied Santander would have continued with a formal fraud investigation (which may 
have resulted in refunds being  received) but Mr S asked to withdraw. As a result,  the fraud 
investigation wasnt completed so I wouldnt expect Santander to leave the refund in place. 
Santander has accepted that its call handlers failed to complete the correct checks which 
resulted in £150 being paid. Santander  also paid Mr and Mrs S £60 for problems theyve 
experienced when visiting branch. Im satisfied  the £210 total compensation paid is fair in all 
the circumstances so Im not telling Santander to increase it. As Im satisfied Santander  has 
dealt with this complaint  fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  as Santander UK Plc has already paid a fair 
amount of compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2256902