K821x#15complaint
Mr H complained about advice he received from Buryfield Grange Limited to transfer his final 
salary pension scheme (the Scheme)  benefits to a personal pension. He had recently  seen 
press articles about pension transfers and feels that he should not have been advised to 
transfer his pension benefits.
background
Mr H was referred to Buryfield Grange by another firm of financial advisers for advice about 
his pension benefits. He completed  a questionnaire at the time which showed his personal 
and financial  details  as:
Employed earning £27,000  a year with no pension scheme from his current 
employer.
He was separated  from his wife with no dependent  children.
He wished to break  all ties with his ex-employer and would prefer to move his funds 
to an individual  plan.  He left his employer  on good terms and had no reason to 
question the security of the company or the manner  in which  the pension  fund was 
being administered.
The benefits being discussed  were  a small part of his overall potential pension  of less 
than 25%.
He had a small  amount of savings outside his pension fund. His investment 
knowledge was limited.
Various questions were asked about his attitude  to investment risk. Although  the 
questionnaire does not contain a conclusion, it is apparent  that Mr H was prepared  to 
accept some risk.
Buryfield Grange produced an analysis report.  This set out the transfer  value of £33,911. It 
also provided an explanation of the benefits available under the scheme including a total 
pension payable of £5,911 at age 65. An estimate of benefits  payable at normal retirement 
date was made for a pension of a £13,821.  The estimated annual investment  return,  or 
critical yield, required to match the benefits  was 8.7%.
A pension  checker  report was also sent to Mr H. This started  with a number of agreed  
objectives. These were:
He did not intend to draw benefits prior to age 65
He wished to break  all ties with his ex-employer and would prefer to move his funds 
to an individual  plan under his control.
He left his previous  employer on good terms and had no reason to question the 
security of the company or the manner in which the pension fund was administered
A lump sum on his death was not important to him.
He wanted  the flexibility at retirement to control the way benefits are paid and wished  
to retain  the flexibility to decide depending upon  his circumstances at that time.
The benefits represented a small proportion of his overall potential pension  funding 
(approx 25%)
Whilst a high lump sum at retirement would be nice it was not a priority for him. He 
did not consider  that he would ever be able to afford  to draw benefits early  if his 
benefits were reduced.
He had a small  level of savings outside  of his pension arrangements
Ref: DRN20070532The fees for the research, preparation and presentation of the report, plus the 
implementation of the recommendations, were  to be taken in the form of commission.  
This commission was paid for out of the standard charges  applied to the new policy  
and not directly by Mr H.
The recommendation was to transfer the benefits as Mr H expressed a strong  desire to 
move the benefits  away from his former  employer and had an adventurous attitude to 
investment risk. Mr H transferred the deferred  pension benefits to a personal pension  plan. 
He has since transferred the personal  pension on two more occasions.
Buryfield Grange rejected the complaint and said:
Mr H had an element of life experience at that age and was able to make an informed 
decision. 
The Scheme was closed and was transferred later over to another firm who took over 
the liabilities for the original defined benefit scheme. Therefore,  the benefits  would 
not have remained  under the original scheme. 
Mr H had no knowledge of pensions therefore it ensured it explained how pensions  
worked in detail. 
The pension was less than 25% of his overall pension provision which would  suggest  
he had some form of pension experience to draw from. 
Mr H had an aggressive  attitude  towards risk. 
The investments  were suitable and appropriate for him at the time based on his 
desire to transfer  away from his former  employer, his attitude to risk, the size of the 
funds in question, the length of time over which they were to be invested  and the 
critical yield calculations undertaken. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She thought that the advice was not 
suitable and recommended  that compensation should be paid. In particular,  she did not 
accept that Mr H wanted to break all ties with his former employer. That was because he had 
also stated that he had left his former employers on good terms and no concerns about the 
security of his investments. She also thought the critical yield of 8.7%  a year was too high 
and carried significant  risk. Neither did she accept that Mr H could reasonably be classed as 
having an aggressive attitude  to risk. The evidence on file indicated  he was more likely to be 
a balanced risk investor. There was no evidence that Mr H had any other pension benefits.
Buryfield Grange did not agree with our adjudicator. In summary, they said:
Their main fear was that 2019  standards were being applied to a case  advised  on 
way back in 2008.
Mr H approached them with specific objectives  of having his pension  reviewed and 
moving away from his former  employer.  The evidence  already provided shows that 
his former employer was experiencing considerable difficulties. This led to the 
pension scheme  itself being bought out under a bulk transfer arrangement.
They did not agree  that Mr H had a balanced  attitude to risk; they have provided  
clear evidence  that he was adventurous.
The attitude to risk questionnaire was developed by independent specialist actuaries 
and the results produced showed Mr H had an adventurous attitude to risk. Mr H 
subsequently signed a declaration confirming that he had read the report in which  his 
attitude to risk was covered in detail.  
Ref: DRN20070533They did not agree  that it was unlikely that Mr H would be able to achieve the critical 
yield required. They provided evidence of the previous five years returns for the 
FTSE 100. With an adventurous  attitude  to risk they believed it was perfectly 
reasonable to consider such a critical yield as being  possible.
The reports sent to Mr H all made it clear there was a substantial  risk that the critical 
yield may not be achieved.
Their understanding was that evidence without knowledge and experience was not 
required under  the regulators rules until 2013.
Mr H told them that his pension  was less than 25% of his pension  provision. As he 
had 30 years until retirement it was a fair and reasonable assumption that he would 
build up additional  pension provision.
They did not agree  that Mr H had not been given a true reflection of the risks of 
transferring. They  referred to the various reports and illustrations  sent to him.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that the complaint should  be upheld and broadly for the same  reasons.
In 2008 an adviser  was required  to comply with the rules set out in the conduct of business  
sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators  Handbook.  This included requirements to know  their 
client and to give suitable advice. In addition  to this, because this was a transfer from a 
defined benefits  occupational scheme  there were additional rules  to follow.  Specifically,
COBS 19.1.6 G
When advising a retail  client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer  or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer  or opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should only then consider a transfer or 
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  that the 
transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
In my view, the adviser had to show  that the advice was suitable  and in Mr Hs best 
interests. The main reason given for the transfer appears to be that Mr H wanted to sever  all 
ties with his former employer. Yet this is contradicted by an answer  given by Mr H in the 
same questionnaire. He said that he left his former employer on good terms and he had no 
concerns about  the solvency. I do not accept that Mr H wanted  to sever all ties with his 
former employer.
It is not clear  to me how Buryfield Grange concluded that Mr H had an adventurous attitude 
to investment risk. I have carefully considered the answers given in the questionnaire 
completed at the time. The answers all indicate to me that Mr H was prepared  to accept 
some risk. The questionnaire was designed so that Mr H would tick one of a range of 
possible answers. But it is noticeable he did not tick boxes at the extremes  of answers.  For 
example: in answer to the question: 
High expected long-term investment returns are important to me and it does not matter if my 
investments temporarily  fall in value. If my retirement income is less than expected I can 
continue working  until my investments recover or retire  on less money.
Ref: DRN20070534Mr H answered:  I agree rather I strongly  agree. This was typical of Mr Hs answers  from 
the range  of answers available.
In my view, Mr H was prepared to accept  some risk, but not that he was willing to accept an 
adventurous risk.
More importantly, this was all of Mr Hs pension provision at the time the advice was given. It 
appears that the standard answers to a questionnaire were completed by Mr H. He ticked 
the box that this was less than 25% of his prospective pension benefits. But, the adviser  
should have been aware that Mr H was not in a pension scheme.  So although Mr H was 
many years away  from retirement, he was not building up any more pension  funds at the 
time. In my view, he could  not afford to take the risk with these  pension  funds.
The critical yield required to match the benefits being given up was 8.7% a year. The 
regulator required illustrations to show returns of 5%, and 7% and 9% a year. Whilst these 
were not maximum or minimum rates,  they were an indication of rates of return  the regulator  
thought reasonable at the time. The critical yield was therefore  very close to the higher rate 
shown on illustrations. In my view, this shows that it was a high-risk strategy. And this risk 
was increased as this was all of Mr Hs pension provision at the time.
Buryfield Grange has not persuaded me that the advice to transfer Mr Hs pension  benefits 
met the standards  required  at the time. In my view,  this was far too risky for Mr H. The 
advice should  have been to retain  his benefits in his former employers pension scheme. 
Even if his former employer ran into difficulty benefits were covered by the pension  
protection fund.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in if he had 
received suitable  advice.  I think  suitable advice would have been to retain his deferred  
benefits in his former employers pension scheme.
Buryfield Grange must undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  
review guidance  as updated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  in October  2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision; using the most recent 
financial assumptions published at the date of this decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision. 
Buryfield Grange may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions  (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mr Hs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  should not be paid into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN20070535If payment  into the pension is not possible or has protection or allowance  implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum.  A notional deduction should be made to allow 
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
I think Mr H would have been able to take a tax-free  cash sum from the occupational 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  I assume that this is likely to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition to the financial  loss, Mr H has been  caused some distress  and inconvenience  
because of the loss to his pension benefits.  Buryfield Grange should  pay him £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their advice.
my final decision
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
I uphold the complaint. Buryfield Grange Limited must calculate any loss Mr H has suffered 
and pay redress as set out above,  up to a maximum of £150,000. Simple interest must be 
added to my award  at the rate of 8% gross a year from the date of my final decision to the 
date of settlement.
recommendation: If fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that Buryfield  
Grange pays Mr H the balance. I further recommend simple  interest  is added  to this balance  
at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my decision to the date of settlement.
If Mr H accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on Buryfield Grange. My 
recommendation is not binding on Buryfield Grange. 
It is unlikely that Mr H can accept  my determination and go to court to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing  to him after the money award has been  paid. Mr H may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2007053