K822xComplaint
Mr Ss complaint is about NewDay  Ltd  trading as Aqua (NewDay). He says it was 
irresponsible in allowing him to have the credit limit increases on his credit  card.  
Background
Mr S took out his NewDay card in May 2014.  At that time he was given had a £100  credit 
limit. The following credit limit increases happened:
September 2014  limit increased to £200
January 2015   limit increased to £400
April 2015  limit increased to £1,000  at Mr Ss request
September 2015  limit increased to £1,600 at Mr Ss request
October 2017  limit increased to £2,350  at Mr Ss request
Mr S has explained that in 2015  he was experiencing financial difficulties and was using  his 
credit card to pay for everyday living costs  - such as paying his bills. He says NewDay  
shouldnt have allowed  the increases from April 2015 onwards to happen as it was clear he 
was struggling financially.  Mr S made a complaint to NewDay and asked that it clear his 
balance, refund all the interest and charges he has incurred, and amend his credit  report to 
remove all references to the credit card account. 
NewDay has explained that when a customer asks for a credit  limit increase,  it makes  a 
decision based on how they have managed their account, any over limit incidents and the 
information it holds  from a credit reference agency.  And when Mr S requested  his limit to be 
increased, there was nothing negative to indicate a new limit shouldnt  be offered. Also that 
Mr S seems  to have been using his card for what appears to be gambling transactions, as 
well as cash withdrawals and transactions.  
NewDay has said it wasnt aware of Mr S being in financial  difficulties until he discussed this 
with it in April 2018. So NewDay says it is confident it lent responsibly to Mr S, both when it 
opened his account and when offering  him credit limit increases. 
I issued my provisional decision (a copy of which is attached to the end of this decision) in 
July 2019. I explained why I was thinking  of partly  upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Both parties  confirmed they had received the provisional decision. NewDay  accepted  my 
findings. Mr S had further comments he wanted me to consider, I have  summarised them 
below:
Mr S has explained that his credit file was amended in 2016  after complaints made 
against other lenders where upheld.  This means that NewDay  would have seen a 
different set of information when the credit limit increases were applied  in 2015. 
Mr S had taken another loan in 2017  so his credit report gave a better reflection then 
he was actually in.
Mr S still wants the adverse information  removed from his credit file since April 2015 
as they put a default on his file and sold the debt on. 
Ref: DRN22104712my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, my decision  remains the same as my provisional decision.  Im partly  
upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive noted Mr Ss comments about amendments to his credit  file after the credit  limit 
increases were applied  in 2015. But I had considered this when I issued my provisional  
decision. As I explained in my provisional  decision, while  Mr S did have some short term 
loans in April 2015, this wouldnt be reason on its own to refuse a credit limit increase. And 
based on the way Mr S had managed his NewDay account, there wasnt  anything to suggest  
he couldnt afford the increase in April 2015. So I still think the checks  NewDay  did at this 
time were proportionate. 
 
Ive thought about Mr Ss comments about the loan hed taken in 2017 and whether this 
would have meant that, had NewDay done more to check he could afford  an increase in 
October 2017, it would  have had concerns. But I dont think  it would have.  As Ive said,  
based on the information on Mr Ss credit file at this time, it appears his financial situation  
was stable. And I dont  think  that picture would  have been much different, if NewDay had 
known about this loan. Just because  Mr S had a loan already, it doesnt follow that he 
couldnt afford an increase in his credit  limit. Mr S hasnt given us anything  to suggest he 
wasnt able to afford his loan repayments as well as the increased credit limit.
 
This means  overall, I still dont think NewDay did anything wrong by increasing Mr Ss credit 
limit in April 2015 but I still dont  think  it should have increased it further in September  2015. 
So Mr Ss credit limit would have stayed  at £1,000 between  September  2015 and October 
2017. By October  2017  there doesnt  seem  to have been any reason why NewDay shouldnt 
have increased  Mr Ss credit limit but its unlikely  to have been increased to £2,350   I think 
its more likely to have  been £1,600.
Putting things  right
As I explained in my provisional decision,  NewDay should put Mr S, as far as possible, in the 
position he would have been in if it hadnt  agreed  the credit  limit increase in September 2015  
and as if the limit had only been  increased  to £1,600 in October 2017. But I also have to take 
into account that Mr S spent the money  and had the benefit of whatever he bought or paid 
for.  So I dont think it would be fair to tell NewDay to write  off that bit of Mr Ss debt. But I 
dont think he should incur interest or charges on that extra  borrowing.  So NewDay  should:
-Rework Mr Ss credit card account to remove any interest he was charged on the 
balance over £1,000 between September  2015  and October 2017.
-Rework Mr Ss credit card account to remove any interest he was charged on the 
balance over £1,600 between October  2017  and now.
-Remove any overlimit or late payment charges or fees that were applied  to the 
account from September 2015 to date (it can take into account the charges that have  
been previously  refunded).
If, as a result of reworking  the account,  it now shows a credit balance, this should be paid to 
Mr S. And if it shows a debit  balance, I remind NewDay that it should  treat Mr S positively 
and sympathetically  in response  to any ongoing  financial  difficulty. Mr S has suggested that 
Ref: DRN22104713his account has been sold on to a third party. If this is the case, I would still expect NewDay 
to work out whether Mr S is worse off because it increased  his credit limit when I dont think 
it should have  done. And if necessary, make arrangements to reduce  the amount Mr S owes  
the third party.  
Ive thought about whether NewDay should amend Mr Ss credit file to reflect the credit  limits 
I think he should have  had. But if it were to do this it would adversely affect Mr Ss credit 
rating as it would show he had been over his limit consistently since  September 2015. I dont 
think it needs to do this. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss point  about  the removal of the default against his NewDay  
account, as well as the default put on the account  by the third party  NewDay sold his 
account to. But looking at what happened  after the credit limit was increased in October  
2017 and how Mr S managed his account,  I think its likely he would have ended up in a 
similar position if his credit limit had only been  increased  to £1,600.  Its likely  he would still 
have failed to make his credit card repayments when they were  due. So NewDay (and the 
third party) would  still have put defaults  on his credit  file. 
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint. I direct NewDay Ltd to
-Rework Mr Ss credit card account to remove any interest he was charged on the 
balance over £1,000 between September  2015  and October 2017.
-Rework Mr Ss credit card account to remove any interest he was charged on the 
balance over £1,600 between October  2017  and now.
-Remove any overlimit or late payment charges or fees that were applied  to the 
account from September 2015 to date (it can take into account the charges that have  
been previously  refunded).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
COPY OF THE PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about NewDay Ltd  trading as Aqua (NewDay). He says it was irresponsible in 
allowing him to have  the credit limit increases on his credit card. 
Ref: DRN22104714Background
Mr S took out his NewDay card in May 2014. At that time he was given had a £100 credit limit. The 
following credit limit increases happened:
September 2014  limit increased to £200
January 2015  limit increased  to £400
April 2015  limit increased to £1,000 at Mr Ss request
September 2015  limit increased to £1,600 at Mr Ss request
October 2017  limit increased to £2,350 at Mr Ss request
Mr S has explained that in 2015 he was experiencing financial difficulties and was using his credit 
card to pay for everyday living costs - such as paying  his bills. He says NewDay  shouldnt have 
allowed the increases from April 2015 onwards  to happen  as it was clear he was struggling financially. 
Mr S made a complaint to NewDay  and asked that it clear his balance, refund all the interest and 
charges he has incurred, and amend his credit report to remove all references to the credit card 
account. 
NewDay has explained that when a customer asks for a credit limit increase, it makes a decision 
based on how they have  managed their account,  any over limit incidents  and the information  it holds 
from a credit reference agency. And when  Mr S requested his limit to be increased, there was nothing  
negative to indicate a new limit shouldnt  be offered. Also that Mr S seems to have been using his 
card for what  appears to be gambling  transactions, as well as cash withdrawals and transactions. 
NewDay has said it wasnt aware  of Mr S being in financial difficulties until he discussed  this with it in 
April 2018. So NewDay says it is confident it lent responsibly to Mr S, both when it opened his 
account and when offering  him credit limit increases. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im thinking  of upholding  Mr Ss complaint in part. Ill explain why.  
The guidance and rules  around lending say a lender  has to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer is able to repay what they borrow  in a way that wont adversely impact their financial 
situation. Put simply, NewDay had to gather  enough information so it could make an informed 
decision about whether Mr S could  afford  to repay the money it made  available to him both when he 
opened his account  and each time it increased  his credit limit..
There isnt a list of specific checks a lender should do when deciding  whether to give credit. Typical 
checks can include (but are not limited to) information obtained from credit reference agencies  and  
other factors such as asking about the consumers income and outgoings, any credit history with it 
and the lenders own internal  credit  scoring.
I havent looked  at the credit  limit increases in September  2014 and January  2015 as both Mr S and 
NewDay appear to agree  there  wasnt any problem with NewDay  agreeing to lend those  amounts of 
money. Ive looked at the subsequent increases in turn.
Increase in April 2015
At Mr Ss request,  NewDay  more than doubled  his credit limit. This was a significant  increase 
compared to the previous two but by this point  Mr S had had his account  with NewDay for a year. 
Looking at the way hed managed his account, I dont think there was anything that should  have 
caused NewDay any concerns that he couldnt afford this increase  he hadnt missed any monthly 
repayments and in most  months the repayments he made were  more  than the minimum. On the 
Ref: DRN22104715whole, Mr Ss account  had been maintained within his agreed limit. Theres also no evidence that Mr 
S told New Day he was experiencing any financial  difficulties at this time.
NewDay also says it had information  from credit  reference agencies, which  gave it a high level picture  
about how Mr S was managing his existing credit. It says this didnt show any adverse information 
that would suggest it wouldnt be appropriate to increase his limit. And having looked at the credit file 
reports Mr S has provided,  I cant see anything that would have caused concern. While Mr S had 
some short term loans,  it seems these were repaid  on time  just because  someone has pay day 
loans, wouldnt be a reason  on its own to refuse a credit limit increase. And Mr S didnt have a lot of 
other credit that might have  suggested he was in financial  difficulties.
So overall, I think  the checks NewDay  did when it increased Mr Ss credit limit in April 2015 were  
proportionate and based on those checks the increased  credit limit appears to have been  affordable.
Increase in September 2015
Mr S requested a further, significant credit limit increase just five months after the previous one. 
Again, theres nothing to show he told NewDay about any financial problems he was having  at this 
time. But there were  some indicators in the way Mr S had been managing his account,  that should 
have suggested to NewDay  that there might be problems.
After his previous  increase  Mr S had quickly  reached the new limit  and had exceeded it on more  
than one occasion  and had regularly  been using his card for cash  advances. When considered as a 
whole these things could have been an early  indication  that his circumstances  had changed  and he 
might be in a less secure financial position.
Again NewDay says it would have had information from credit reference agencies  and these  didnt 
highlight any concerns. But I think given  Mr Ss pattern of credit card use over the past year,  when the 
credit limit had already been increased  three times,  there was enough  to alert NewDay to the 
possibility Mr S might  not be able to afford a further increase in credit limit. So I think  it should have 
done more before  it agreed to this.
With that in mind, Mr Ss credit file shows that by September 2015 he had taken out two further credit 
cards with other providers. He had exceeded his credit  limit on both cards in August 2015. By this 
point hed also taken  out further short term loans. Although  this alone  wouldnt be enough to mean he 
was in financial difficulty, when taken into account with everything else,  I think  it suggests Mr S was 
probably having some financial difficulties.  
If NewDay  had done further checks before agreeing  the credit limit increase in September 2015, I 
think its likely to have found that it wouldnt  be responsible to lend further money to Mr S. So his 
credit limit would have stayed at £1,000.
Increase in October 2017
In the year or so after the September  2015 increase  took place Mr S got into arrears  and its clear 
hed found it difficult to keep  up with his payments. It appears he engaged with NewDay  at some point 
in mid-2016 to let it know about the difficulties  he was having. And as a result, in August 2016,  
NewDay reversed some of the overlimit and late fees hed been charged. 
But by October 2017 Mr S appears to have sorted things out  hed been making  regular payments 
into his account again, was using the card less and staying within his credit limit. There  hadnt been  
any real issues in the way he was managing  his card since August 2016. The information  from the 
credit reference agencies that was available  to NewDay  didnt indicate that hed had any other issues 
with credit for some time. So arguably, by October 2017 there wasnt anything  to suggest  NewDay  
should have done more  to check he could  afford to repay a higher level of borrowing.
Ref: DRN22104716Even if NewDay  should have done more to check Mr S could afford  an increase in credit limit, I dont 
think it would have found any reason  to suggest  he couldnt   his credit file doesnt show any adverse  
information from around this time  he hadnt taken out any new short  term lending  and the balances 
on the credit  cards he had with other providers  were comfortably within the credit limits.  His financial 
situation seems to have been stable.
I dont think NewDay  did anything  wrong by increasing Mr Ss credit limit in October 2017. But given 
what Ive said about the increase in September 2015  that I dont  think  it should have  happened  I 
think its unlikely NewDay would have increased his limit from £1,000 to £2,350.  Theres no way of 
knowing how much of an increase it would have agreed, but given the level of increases we know it 
agreed (in the past), it seems reasonable to assume it would have agreed to increase it to £1,600.
Overall
I currently dont think NewDay did anything wrong  by increasing Mr Ss credit limit in April 2015  but I 
dont think it should have increased  it further in September 2015. So Mr Ss credit limit would have 
stayed at £1,000 between September 2015  and October 2017. By October  2017 there doesnt seem 
to have been  any reason why NewDay shouldnt  have increased Mr Ss credit  limit but its unlikely  to 
have been increased to £2,350  I think its more likely  to have been £1,600.
Ref: DRN2210471