K821x#15complaint
This complaints about a monthly premium  payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out alongside a mortgage in 2009. Miss L says Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Woolwich) mis-
sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ls complaint. Barclays disagreed, so Miss Ls complaint comes  
to me to decide.
Ive decided the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why. Barclays  recommended the PPI to 
Miss L. So it had to consider whether it was suitable for her, as well as giving her information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading  so that she could make an informed choice and 
decide for herself if she wanted to take it out.
At the time of the sale Miss L told Barclays she had a pre-existing medical  condition.  
Although, I cant know exactly what she told Barclays about it, on the phone,  when she took 
out the policy. Ive looked  at the Demands and Needs statement completed  at the time. 
This isnt signed, so I dont know if Miss L saw this when PPI was added. Barclays  records  
show that shes been told that her condition may not be covered  under the policy.
Barclays says she wouldve been  sent a guide to the insurance and a policy  document giving 
her the full details  of the terms and conditions.  However, I dont know  if Miss L got these, or 
whether she read them.
Miss L had been  suffering from a condition  since her early teens and was seeing a doctor 
regularly. Given the limited information available,  I cant see how Barclays  satisfied itself that 
the policy was suitable for her. Nor, can I see that it gave Miss L sufficient information to 
make an informed choice  about whether the policy was right for her in her circumstances 
and therefore   whether  she wanted to buy it. 
I think had Miss L clearly understood that her medical condition wasnt covered she wouldnt 
have gone on to take out the PPI because I dont think she wouldve considered the policy 
worth the cost given  that she wouldnt be able to claim for her pre-existing condition.
Ive taken into account everything that Barclays has said, but this doesnt change my view.
So I think that Miss Ls lost out because of what Barclays did wrong and it should put matters 
right.
what Barclays should do to put matters  right  
Barclays should put Miss L in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
cover should  be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and it should:
Ref: DRN21336122Pay Miss L the amount she paid each month for PPI. 
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss L made a successful claim under the policy, Barclays can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount that she is owed.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
provide a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss L asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ls complaint and I direct Barclays Bank Plc to pay the compensation as Ive 
outlined above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2133612