K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc, who were trading  at the time as Halifax, mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy in 1997 and again in 1999.  
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997  and again in 1999. The 
mortgages were for Mr and Mrs B and the policies covered Mr B only.  Mr and Mrs B paid a 
monthly amount  for the policies. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
To get the cover on each occasion  the consumers had to complete an application form that 
was separate  to the application  they completed  for their borrowing. Mr B signed for the cover  
on each occasion.  Ive not seen  anything that clearly  shows Halifax didnt make Mr and 
Mrs B aware the PPI was optional. So, having considered all the submissions I have  
received in this case, I think its more likely that Halifax wouldve made Mr and Mrs B aware 
that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it.
 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs B. This meant Halifax  needed  to 
take reasonable steps to find out about  their needs and make sure the policies were suitable  
for them. 
I think Halifaxs recommendations were right for Mr and Mrs B, based on what  Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr B was eligible  for the policies and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a claim. So Mr B could benefit 
from the full range  of cover he bought. 
Mr B said he wouldve got some sick pay from his employer if he was unwell. And Mr 
and Mrs B have told us about  savings they had at that time.  But Ive considered that 
they chose to protect those savings at those  times, by not taking a smaller mortgage.  
The PPI policy in 1997 wouldve covered Mr B for up to 12 months  if Mr B couldnt 
work through  accident or sickness, or if he lost his job. And the 1999 policy wouldve 
covered him for up to 24 months.  The policies wouldve paid out in addition to any 
Ref: DRN22452832sick pay or redundancy payment he mightve got, and would  have further protected  
any savings Mr and Mrs B had at that time.  So, considering all of this, and the fact 
that they were  increasing the borrowing that was secured on their home, and the 
potentially serious  consequences of defaulting  on a loan secured on their home, I 
think they couldve found the policy useful.  
The policies costs  appear to have been  comparable to other similar policies at the 
time and they appear to have been  affordable (I note they were afforded for several  
years). 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs B.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs B, Halifax  also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policies so they could decide  if they wanted  to buy them. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think  the policies were 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped them from buying them.  
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:  
When the policies were  sold, Halifax expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. 
Because Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has basically  offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any extra interest  they paid 
because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr and Mrs B 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
Ref: DRN22452833my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2245283