K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Mr D complain that they gave HSBC UK Bank Plc some  important items for 
safekeeping, but then it couldnt find them. Mr W has dealt with HSBC, and he brought  this 
complaint for them both.
background 
Mr W and Mr D each  made a will, and lodged them with a branch of HSBC for safekeeping, 
along with a sealed envelope. About ten years  ago, the branch where the documents  had 
been kept was closed  down. HSBC wrote to inform Mr W that the items would be moved to 
another branch. 
About 18 months  ago, HSBC wrote again to say it was discontinuing the safekeeping facility, 
so it wanted Mr W to make arrangements to collect the property. He asked for the items to 
be sent overseas,  where he and Mr D live. There was no response to this, or to further 
enquiries that he made. Mr W travelled to a branch,  and was told the items were lost. Mr W 
has made complaints  about this, and sought to get HSBC  to locate the items. 
HSBC sent Mr W a final response letter, which offered to pay £250  in compensation as an 
apology for the delay  in returning his items.  Mr W then travelled to the UK and tried again to 
collect the items, but again he wasnt able to get them. He was told he couldnt collect them  
without an appointment.  He said he still wasnt sure whether HSBC had the wills or not. 
Mr W said that HSBC  had been charging  for the safekeeping service  throughout the 
eighteen months that it had spent trying to locate the items. And he said that Mr D was 
seriously ill. Mr W was concerned that there  would be no will if Mr D passed away,  but 
equally, Mr W was reluctant to talk to someone  who is seriously ill about the need to make a 
new will. And if Mr D should pass away, Mr W said that he cant be confident that he will 
inherit without a valid will, because of the different laws where they currently live. He said 
this had been very upsetting for them both.
HSBC said that it could confirm that the items had been located, and were being sent to its 
Notting Hill Gate branch. Mr W could choose to collect  them  there, or have them sent to his 
home. HSBC would cover the postage costs. HSBC said it thought that the payment of £250  
which it had already offered was appropriate  for the problems  Mr W experienced before he 
went to a branch  in May 2018. But it said it would like to pay an additional  £150  for the 
difficulties he has experienced since then, which would increase the total amount of 
compensation to £400. HSBC has asked for permission to open the items to check  the 
contents, and then for permission to send them to Mr W. That letter also says that HSBC  
wont be liable if the items  should be lost in transit. 
Our investigator thought this was a fair offer. But Mr W didnt think  it was anywhere  near 
enough for the time hed wasted, the costs of his frequent calls to HSBC,  and the distress  
that this issue had caused him. He said hed costed his time, the distress,  the cost of calls, 
and what hed been charged for safekeeping, and come up with £2,200. HSBC had paid 
£250, so hed like £1,950.
HSBC said that it had a detailed  record of when Mr W had called, and it sent us this. It said it 
would like to increase its offer to £800  in total to resolve the matter. 
Ref: DRN21372282Our investigator wrote to Mr W to say that hed understood  that Mr W was HSBCs customer, 
and that would mean that compensation would only be paid to him. And he explained  that 
our service  wouldnt  use the hourly  rate that Mr W had offered as a guide to considering  the 
right amount  of compensation  in a case. This issue seemed to have been  going on for about  
a year,  at the time of writing, rather than the two years Mr W suggested. Our investigator 
said that many of the calls that Mr W made to HSBC  seemed to be ordinary banking  
enquiries. 
Our investigator reassured  Mr W that all three of the items that had been  placed in 
safekeeping had been located and were being held at the branch. He also explained that he 
thought that this was a fair offer. 
Mr W still didnt  agree. He said that his partner was also an HSBC customer  so the 
compensation should take account of the impact  this had on him. And HSBC  had first said 
he should make arrangements to collect his items in early 2016. Hed been trying to get 
them back  since then, so the issue had definitely been  going on for more  than two years. He 
also said that many of his calls did involve ordinary banking enquires, but he was also trying 
to get his documents back,  with no success.  
Our investigator said that Mr W was HSBCs customer for safekeeping, and that was why 
compensation could only be paid to him. Our investigator didnt change his mind,  so the 
case was passed  to me for a final decision.
Mr W said that if HSBC  had lodged the wills under  his name alone, then it had made a 
mistake. Both he and his partner were  there  when the wills were  lodged. HSBC responded 
to our investigators further  enquiries saying that items were jointly held.  
Mr W said that he thought  that HSBC  had been lying in order  to try to reduce the amount of 
compensation payable to them both.  Mr W also said that he wouldnt sign the waiver that 
HSBC required before the documents were sent. He said that he thought that it was up to 
the bank to make sure that the documents were returned safely. He said that if he signed the 
waiver, he thought that the items could just be lost in the post, and he repeated  that he was 
still unsure whether they had really  been  found.  
Our investigator then passed the case to me, for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr W expressed concerns that his items  havent been retrieved by HSBC. The bank  
assured us that they have been. I hadnt  seen  anything  to make me doubt  that 
reassurance, so Id assessed this complaint on the basis  that these items have been  
found. But I said that if Mr W could  show that the items havent  actually  been  located, 
then I would reconsider this complaint.
-Although I did think the items had now been located, it did seem to me as if this problem  
had been prolonged  unnecessarily by HSBC. There was no investigation when Mr W 
asked for his items back in August 2017. HSBC  then failed to return  items to him on his 
later visit to the UK. It also failed to confirm  the items that were  held in response to his 
request, or to take any proactive steps  to notify Mr W that all three of his items  had been  
Ref: DRN21372283found, and were held in branch. I thought that HSBC had missed  a number of 
opportunities to resolve this issue. But HSBC had offered a total of £800  to resolve this 
complaint. Id taken  account of the concerns  that Mr W has raised with us, and I did 
understand that losing  these items had a much greater impact on him and Mr D, 
because of their circumstances. But I still thought that £800 was the right amount of 
compensation to make  up for what had gone wrong  in this case.
-There was one other thing though that I thought  HSBC should pay for. Its internal notes 
say that it has waived the fee that was being  charged for safekeeping. But Mr W told us 
that he was being  charged throughout the time that HSBC  said it couldnt find the items. 
We checked this issue  with HSBC, and it said that the payment of £36.76 per annum 
which was being charged for safekeeping was waived from May 2018. I thought that 
Mr W tried to collect these  items around  August  2017. I thought that HSBC  should refund 
any and all charges  for safekeeping from August 2017. 
-HSBC now says that it will send  the items to Mr W and Mr D by post. Id seen HSBCs 
internal procedures for returning items in safekeeping, and that says courier delivery 
should be followed for all overseas posting . So I said I would expect HSBC  to return  
these items using a courier service,  not post.  
-HSBC also said that it wants a signed  waiver,  so that it cant  be held responsible  for the 
items being lost when  they are on their way to Mr W and Mr D. Mr W said he doesnt  
want to sign that, because hes concerned that the items will then be lost in transit. But 
I didnt think it was unreasonable  for HSBC to say that if the courier company loses  the 
items, that isnt its fault. If Mr W doesnt  want to do that, then I thought he should make 
arrangements to collect the items  from a branch.
-I hoped  that Mr W could  now reach an arrangement that both he and HSBC were 
content with, to return the items.  And I thought that HSBC  should pay Mr W and Mr D the 
£800 it has previously  offered,  and refund any monies charged for safekeeping since  
August 2017.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr W didnt reply to our service. HSBC accepted the findings  in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Even though  neither side has offered anything new for me to consider, Ive still reconsidered  
all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed  my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc must pay Mr W and Mr D the total of £800 it has 
previously offered. HSBC  UK Bank Plc can count any money it has already  paid 
Mr W and Mr D for this complaint towards that total.  HSBC UK Bank Plc should also refund 
any monies charged to Mr W and Mr D for safekeeping since  August 2017.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Ref: DRN21372284Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2137228