K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that the vehicle she acquired  through a conditional sale agreement 
financed by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was not of satisfactory quality. She wants  to 
reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Miss T tells us in June  2018 she acquired  the vehicle through a dealer Ill refer to as P. She 
says the vehicle experienced faults  immediately, including a leak in the rear drivers  side 
door. She says the vehicle was supplied  with four bald tyres and two of the alloy wheels 
were damaged. Miss T states  shes subsequently complained about faults with the rear door 
window and airbag warning light.
Miss T says she took the faults  to a garage  in October 2018 and repairs  were  carried out - 
for which Santander subsequently  refunded her. But soon after another  fault with an airbag 
sensor was diagnosed and she says she was told this would cost £270 to repair.  She says 
shes now lost confidence in the vehicle  and wishes to reject it.
Santander told us it had paid for the repairs to the vehicle to be carried  out by M. As it hadnt  
seen evidence to suggest the vehicle was still faulty  it said it didnt think Miss T should be 
able to reject  the vehicle.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 May 2019. In that provisional view I 
said I was minded to uphold  the complaint and that I thought Miss T should  be permitted to 
reject the vehicle and end the agreement. Since  then Miss T has replied and accepted  my 
provisional decision. Santander  has not replied. As no further evidence has been supplied  I 
see no reason to alter my provisional decision which is largely repeated in my final decision 
which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Miss T has experienced problems with this vehicle. And Im also sorry to learn 
shes recently suffered  from health  issues. I wish her a speedy recovery.
I also wish to make clear  Im not dealing with issues of whether the agreement was 
affordable as this only appears to have been  raised  much later than the original  complaint.  
This aspect  would need a separate complaint - for which Santander  would need  additional  
time to respond.
There are several factual issues which have added to the complexity of this complaint and I 
need to deal with these  in order  to determine  which, if any, are the responsibility of 
Santander and which are not. Theres  also clearly  been a breakdown in the relationship 
between P and Miss T. And I can see that Santander has also experienced difficulties in 
trying to communicate with P. However, whilst  thats not helped the situation, as P is not a 
party to this complaint I cant deal directly  with anything that P has or has not done.
Ref: DRN24681792In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some 
of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities.
As the supplier of both the vehicle  and finance under a conditional sale agreement 
Santander is responsible for the vehicle  being  of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply. 
So if I thought  there  was something wrong with the vehicle which meant  it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied Id expect  Santander to put things right.
Miss T was supplied with the vehicle in June  2018. I understand that the deal was primarily 
conducted by phone  with the vehicle later being delivered to her home address.
Its not in dispute  that Miss T complained  about  faults with the rear door window,  rear lights  
and airbag light in August 2018. She took it back to P and some repairs seem  to have been 
carried out - although  the job sheet says the work  was not complete. So she complained  to 
Santander.
Santanders notes  indicate it experienced difficulty in contacting  P and it later authorised  
Miss T to get repairs done by M. These  repairs were  carried  out on 23 October  2018. The 
invoice states  that a new window was fitted  along  with airbag sensors. At this point 
Santander closed  the complaint as it had agreed to (and later did) cover the cost of the 
repairs. But the complaint was re-opened almost immediately on 29 October.
Santanders notes  record that Miss T informed them that following Ms repairs the airbag 
light came  on again.  She said M had told her this was a different  fault and would cost £270  
to fix. This was then confirmed to us in a letter of 19 January 2019 from Santander. The 
letter said:
On 29 October 2018, Miss Ts complaint was re-opened  as the repairs  were unsuccessful  
and the airbag light illuminated again. We were informed that the repairing garage  had 
inspected this and confirmed the fault was due to a different sensor not the one they had 
initially replaced.
On 1 November  Miss T emailed Santander to say she wanted to reject the vehicle. She 
followed this up on 8 November with an additional  complaint  to Santander about mis-selling  
which related to alleged accident  damage to the vehicle about which Miss T said she had not 
been informed  prior to supply. For reasons Ill explain I dont think I need deal with this latter 
point in full detail.
Its not in dispute  that whilst the vehicle was with Miss T it suffered damage  in the form of 
dents to bodywork  and damage to a wing mirror.  It seems this was due to the actions of a 
third party. Subsequently,  as part of the ongoing situation, when Miss T sought to sell the 
vehicle the prospective  purchaser declined to go through with the deal as it thought the 
vehicle had been involved in an accident.
Ref: DRN24681793I can deal with these  aspects briefly as I dont think there will be any significant dispute  about 
the resolution of these  points on the final outcome. Theres  no persuasive evidence  that the 
vehicle has been  involved in any accident prior to supply to Miss T. Ive not seen anything  to 
show it had been  placed upon any list of vehicles that should not - following an accident - 
have been offered for re-sale. And Miss T accepts the wing mirror damage and bodywork 
dents were caused - albeit not by her - whist the vehicle was in her possession. 
In accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement Miss T is responsible - if/when 
the vehicle is returned - for damage above  fair wear and tear. Nothing  in my provisional 
decision alters  that obligation.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant legislation here 
is the Consumer  Rights Act of 2015. Briefly stated,  this allows  a consumer - in certain  
circumstances - to reject  goods  if theres  been  an attempt at repair which  has not been 
successful.
As the repairs of 23 October do not appear  to have  been successful I think  Miss T should be 
allowed to reject the vehicle. Im aware the latest  reported fault is said to be different - 
although it affects the airbag warning  system.  And at the very least  its similar to part of the 
earlier repairs. But I dont think this makes  any difference.
A vehicle  is supplied as a whole item - which is obviously  made  up of many  different 
component parts. But whether the vehicle is of satisfactory  quality (or not) at the time of 
supply is judged on the basis of the whole vehicle. This means that if a fault is identified and 
repaired its to be expected that when  the vehicle is returned to the consumer its in full 
working order. If that proves  not to be the case - then subject to any relevant time limits - the 
consumer is then able to reject the item.  The legislation  does not permit the supplier an 
opportunity to repair each individual item that proves  to be faulty - regardless of how many 
times that might separately occur.
Miss T tried to reject  the vehicle  on 1 November but this appears not to have been  fully 
addressed as attention seems to have  been  diverted to the newly  discovered issue  of the 
alleged accident  damage. And the airbag issue still seems  to be present as Ive seen an up 
to date image of the dashboard which shows a malfunction warning related to the airbag.
So far as redress is concerned I think Miss T should  be able to reject  the vehicle and end the 
agreement. But I think its fair and reasonable to also amend other  aspects of the 
adjudicators recommendations.
Much of Miss Ts dissatisfaction  appears to be as the result of the actions of P. I cant  hold 
Santander directly responsible for Ps actions and its (Ps) failure  to address the issues  she 
raised. Santander did make some  efforts to alleviate this by allowing M to do the repairs 
rather than P. But I recognise  that Santanders refusal to accept her rejection of the vehicle 
on 1 November has itself been the source  of distress and inconvenience and has meant  
Miss T has remained  liable for payments on a vehicle she no longer had faith in.
Ref: DRN24681794Ive seen evidence  that the present mileage is 55,428 - and I can see that when M repaired it 
was recorded  as 53,937.  Ordinarily wed expect a consumer to pay for the use of a vehicle 
during the period a complaint is investigated. But in this case Miss T has indicated shes not 
been using the vehicle  due to various health issues. The mileage covered since  23 October 
is just under1,  500 miles - which for over six months is very low. So that supports Miss Ts 
statement about the level of use. I propose she should receive  a refund of four full monthly 
payments to cover this and also impaired use during the earlier  months of the agreement.
I think she should also receive £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. I dont 
propose to make any award for certain items which Miss T says she has replaced including  
tyres and light bulbs. These are essentially maintenance  items and would be expected to be 
met by the consumer  in any event.
Im aware that Miss T is experiencing financial difficulties at present and Im not aware  if 
there are any accumulated arrears. As Ive not been provided with an up to date statement it 
will be for Santander to calculate what (if anything)  is owed by Miss T at the date of 
settlement and make any necessary adjustments to any sum to be refunded.
Ref: DRN24681795my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In order to settle this complaint I require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to take the following 
action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Miss T to pay from the date of termination. 
This is subject to the payment  of all arrears  (if any) and charges which have arisen  in 
the course of the agreement.
2.Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Miss T.
3.Refund the advance payment of £3,800.
4.Refund or waive four monthly payments  of £169.78.
5.Pay £250 compensation to Miss T for distress and inconvenience.
6.Subject to the payment  of all sums due, arrange to have the record of the agreement
            removed from Miss Ts credit  file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to item 3 (and item 4 if refunds
are paid) from date of payment to date of settlement.
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc can deduct  any arrears due prior to the payment  of any
refund to be made arising from the above  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2468179