K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  wont  refund the premiums she paid for 
her Homecare insurance policy.
Miss R will note that the business Ive made  my decision about has a slightly different name 
to the business our investigator referred  to. British Gas Insurance  Limited (BG) is the correct  
business for my decision to be about  and it hasnt  objected  to the change.  The change 
hasnt made  any difference to the outcome of my decision.
background
Between 2013 and 2018 Miss R had a Homecare policy  which covered her boiler, central 
heating, plumbing and drains and home electrics and gave an annual service.
In 2018 Miss R asked  BG to cancel the policy, which it did. Miss R then asked BG to refund 
the policy premiums shed paid as shed  never  had an annual service.  She said she hadnt  
arranged an annual service as BGs engineer  wouldnt have been able to get to the boiler 
and radiators in her property. Shed also suffered two bereavements which affected her 
health. She said BG knew she wasnt having  an annual service  and it should have told her to 
cancel the policy.
BG wouldnt refund the premiums. It said each year it had sent reminder  letters to Miss R 
asking her to book an annual service.  She hadnt  contacted BG. It didnt refund the cost of 
the missed service. BG said completion  of an annual  service wasnt  a requirement for the 
policy to remain valid so she would  have been able to claim on the policy if shed needed to.
Miss R complained to us. In one of BG's  letters it had referred  to a repair to her toilet under 
the policy in 2014 but she said the engineer only did minimum work to repair  the toilet. She 
believes the policy is invalid as the annual services didnt happen. Miss R wants  BG to 
refund the premiums  and reimburse the special delivery postage costs for her letters  to BG.
Our investigator thought BG didnt need  to refund  the premiums.
Miss R disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She referred to wording in the policy 
and said as BG hadnt done an annual service  it couldnt be assured that her boiler,  central 
heating and appliances were running  safely.  She also said she had limited income and the 
premiums that should be refunded were a huge amount to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Miss R has been  unwell  and shes had a difficult few years.  But I dont 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I need to decide whether BG acted fairly and reasonably in not refunding  the premiums, and 
I think it did.
This isnt a case where BG has failed  to carry out annual services  that Miss R requested and 
booked. BG sent her reminders that she needed  to book the services and she chose not to 
Ref: DRN20953162because of her domestic circumstances.  The policy  says that when an annual  service is due 
BG will contact  Miss R and if it doesnt hear back from her it wont refund the cost of the 
missed annual service.  
BG didnt  need  to ask Miss R if she wanted  to cancel the policy  just because she hadnt  had 
an annual service. It was for Miss R to decide if she wanted to continue  the policy. When  she 
did tell BG she wanted to cancel it did so in a reasonable timescale.
Ive looked at the policy wording Miss Rs referred  to. The wording  of the recent  policy is 
different to the wording she referred to but the effect is the same.  The first service  is one 
where BG may visit to check it can cover the relevant items. The annual  service is to check  
the relevant items are safe and working  properly. BG hasnt been able to do so but that 
wasnt due to anything  BG did wrong.  It reminded Miss R to book the services  and she 
didnt.
BG confirmed to Miss R that she didnt need  to have an annual  service for the policy to be 
valid. The policy  was valid. So Ive no reason to think BG would have declined any claims 
she made just because the service hadnt  been  done. 
Whether or not Miss R did claim on the 2014  policy, cover was in place for her to make a 
claim if she needed to. She had the benefit of cover and paid premiums for that cover.  
Theres no basis for me to say BG must refund the premiums.
Theres also no basis for me to say BG must refund Miss Rs postage costs.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2095316