K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  cancelled her motor  insurance policy, 
charged a cancellation fee and asked her for the remainder of her premiums. 
background
Miss C asked Tesco for a quote for a policy at a different address. This led to an increased 
premium and Miss C refused to pay this or to go ahead with the quote. Tesco then sent her 
seven days notice of the cancellation of her policy. It said the new address had too high a 
risk and it thought  it hadnt been given  correct information. But it thought its level of service  
could have been better and it paid Miss C £50 compensation for this. Miss C said shed got 
the quote because she may have been  moving and had decided against this. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Tesco  
had acted within the policy terms and conditions in cancelling  the policy with seven days 
notice. He thought its £50 compensation  was fair for the level of service provided.
Miss C replied that she couldnt afford  to pay two sets of car insurance payments. Miss C 
provided us with proof that she said showed  that she was still living at the same address. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Tesco said it cancelled Miss Cs policy because it thought it didnt have accurate information 
about her address. It thought Miss C had retracted the change of address due to the 
additional premium  she would be charged. 
The policy terms and conditions say that Miss C is required  to provide accurate information, 
including her address.  I think  Tesco had reason to believe that this wasnt  correct as Miss C 
had called it to say that she was moving that day when she asked for a new quote.  She said 
she didnt then have  internet access. So I think Tesco was entitled to cancel  the policy as it 
didnt have accurate  information to rate the risk it was taking. 
Miss C later sent us bills addressed to her at her old address and dated after the 
cancellation. But I dont  think  this shows that Miss C was still living  at the old address, just 
that her post was addressed there. Tescos decision was based on the risk it was prepared 
to take and I cant see that this information  changes that.   
When Miss C told Tesco  that she wasnt now moving and didnt want  it to cancel her policy,  
Tesco suggested that she cancel it herself. It said this would be in her best interests. Having  
a policy  cancellation  on your record can lead to higher premiums, so I think  Tesco was fair in 
giving Miss C this option. 
Miss C declined this offer.  I can see that the cancellation letter was posted  and emailed to 
Miss C giving her seven days notice as set out in the policy  terms and conditions.   
Ref: DRN29600412Miss C said Tesco applied a cancellation  charge when it cancelled  her policy. I can see that 
Tesco says this will be applied if it cancels the policy. But I cant  see the amount  or that it 
was actually applied  in Miss Cs case.  Tesco did charge Miss C £152.51  for the balance  of 
her premium  which it said was due as Miss C had an open claim. This is set out in the policy 
terms and conditions and so I think Tesco is entitled to make  these  charges.  
I think that when  Miss C first called Tesco about  changing her address she was given  
unclear information.  She wasnt told that when  she retracted the change of address and 
declined to pay the additional premium  that the policy would still cancel. She was also 
incorrectly told that an administration  fee would be charged for making the change of 
address. Tesco offered  Miss C £50 compensation for the upset this caused her. I think  thats 
fair and reasonable as its in keeping  with the level Id award in similar situations. I dont 
require Tesco to increase this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2960041