K821x#15complaint
Mr C, as a leaseholder  of premises in a block is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited paid 
his freeholder direct  for monies paid by him in respect of a claim under the block  policy.
background
In September  2015, a claim was made under the block policy  in respect  of water damage to 
Mr Cs premises.  He negotiated with Aviva over the claim  and was told that it agreed the 
payment of several  invoices. But after correspondence with him about those invoices, it 
appeared that the work was yet to be done.  Aviva said it would pay two invoices on 
confirmation that the payment had been made, and it would  take over the rest of the work. It 
liaised directly with the freehold company over that.
Mr C later clarified that the only invoice he was seeking payment of was in respect of some 
flooring. He supplied evidence that he had paid this. Aviva contacted the freeholder  and 
settled with it directly. It advised Mr C of this and asked the freeholder to reimburse Mr C but 
as the freeholder was in dispute with Mr C about arrears of payments  owed  to it, it declined 
to release the payment  to Mr C.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator found that Mr C was an eligible complainant and 
that he had been assured that he would receive  a payment for invoices on proof that he had 
paid them. As he has paid £567.50  for the flooring,   she said that Aviva should  reimburse  
that sum to him plus interest.
Aviva objected to this as it said 1) Mr C wasnt eligible to complain to us and 2) it had 
discharged its duty under  the policy by making payment directly to the freeholder.
I issued a decision initially confirming that I thought Mr C is an eligible complainant. The 
policy was taken out for his benefit,  and he was liable to contribute to the premiums, and 
under the terms  of his lease he was liable  for repairs to the building, including particularly 
flooring. Im now considering the merits of the complaint Mr C made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the claim was made by the freeholders, its clear that as the water damage  affected 
his premises, Mr C took over negotiating  and arranging the repairs. Mr C asked about 
payment of invoices and was told in an email of 22 December 2015  You can settle the 
invoice directly with the contractor and we can then reimburse you. Please submit  the 
invoice. 
Mr C submitted several invoices to Aviva, which  made  enquiries,  and it appeared that some  
of the cost was for work to be done.  It was also concerned that one particular invoice had 
been altered.  It liaised with the freeholder and agreed to take over the repairs. It said,  in an 
email of 16 December  2016  A payment will be arranged to cover the invoice from [the 
flooring company].  It added that it would also pay another  invoice but Mr C confirmed that 
that should be addressed to the freeholder. Mr C provided his credit card statement to show 
that he had paid the flooring company invoice.
Ref: DRN21081212Aviva subsequently got in touch with the freeholder, who requested  that all payments should 
go direct  to it. In its conversations with Aviva the freeholder made it clear that it was in 
dispute with Mr C. Aviva made  the payments.
Aviva, as Ive said object  to paying  Mr C as it has already discharged its obligations  under 
the policy. Yet all the initial  correspondence  was with Mr C and, as he is a leaseholder on a 
long lease with repairing  responsibilities, that might be expected. Certainly Aviva did in my 
view lead Mr C to believe that he would  be reimbursed  which  led him to make  the payment 
in respect of the flooring.
Ive noted that the claims handler  from Avivas  loss adjuster explained that The leaseholder 
of each flat would progress a claim as they have  an insurable interest under the policy.  The 
policy schedules will never individually note their interests. We would not settle a claim  with 
the freeholder  in this instance.
Whilst Aviva  has since said that that was wrong,  and produced views from more senior 
members of staff, it nevertheless informed how Aviva dealt with Mr Cs loss. I think  that once 
it became aware  that the freeholder and Mr C were in dispute, it decided  it would  be safer to 
pay the policyholder ie the freeholder. This was despite it having evidence  (which it had 
asked Mr C for) that Mr C had paid the contractor directly. The freeholder  has never 
asserted that it paid the invoice.
Aviva would have  been  or ought to have been  aware that the freeholder was unlikely to 
reimburse Mr C because  it was in dispute with him. Mr C, having been assured  by Aviva that 
it would  repay to him the cost of the invoices paid, acted to his financial detriment by relying 
on that assurance. Aviva should  pay Mr C the cost of the invoice for the flooring,  plus 
interest at 8% from the date he paid it.   
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £567.50 in 
repayment of the sum he incurred for flooring. It should add simple  interest  at the rate of 8% 
per year from the date he paid the invoice (as evidenced by his credit card statement) until 
the date it repays  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Aviva  Insurance Limited to take tax off any interest it pays to 
Mr C. Should Mr C request  it, it should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off 
so he can reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2108121