K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limiteds  recent review  of her whole 
of life policy was not fair or reasonable, and the dramatic hike in the cost of her premiums 
wasnt justified by the increasing cost of cover.
background
Ms Hs representative said she took out the policy in 1998, for a sum assured of £150,000 
with the option of a 10% inflation increase each year, something she took up for the next 19 
years. Each year she received a standard renewal form which  stated that the premium was 
sufficient, within reasonable assumptions, to maintain the cover for the next five years  (this 
being a pre-condition of being able to take up the 10% option).
He said that while some premium increases had been more than the 10% uplift in the sum 
assured, and Ms H accepted this, the 2018 rise was wholly disproportionate and unfair. This 
is particularly the case given that he, as her advisor, had rung to check  the policys 
underlying fund value each year to ensure the policy was on course to pay for the sum 
assured going  forward.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel her complaint  should  be upheld.
She said Old Mutual was entitled to review  her policy  regularly in line with the terms and 
conditions, and she had no reason  to doubt that the premium rise wasnt a result of its 
actuarial calculations.
Ms Hs representative disagreed, and said:
The adjudicators  argument that Old Mutual is entitled  under  the terms and conditions  
to increase the premium and cost of cover without  restriction  is not a correct 
interpretation of the Fair and Reasonableness  test within  the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) guidance  and the six outcomes of its Treating Customers Fairly 
Principles
She also offered  no explanation as to why Old Mutual determined  it needed  such  a 
significant increase  in the cost of cover in the November  2018 review or questioned 
whether changing mortality  rates  justified  this. To simply say that "As one gets older 
it costs more to provide life cover..." is far too simplistic and ignores the reviews (and 
required premium increases) over the previous 20 years from 1998  to 2018
Ms H was 83 in 2017 when she was informed in the annual  review that the policy 
was performing as expected and was anticipated  within reasonable assumptions to 
be able to support  the level of life cover  for a further  five years - and as in the 
previous 18 yearly reviews agreed  to increase cover by 10%
The adjudicator  has not explained why at 83 the cost of cover was significantly less 
than the cost just one year later (the disputed November 2018 review)
She also failed to explain why the underlying  fund increased over the previous  five 
years (from the age 79 to 84) at a time when according to her assumptions it should 
have fallen
Old Mutual failed to provide appropriate post-sale literature at the annual  reviews, 
something which would  have  allowed Ms H to make informed choices over the past 
20 years
These reviews, compared  to the one in 2018, were not fit for purpose;  the very 
limited information, stating that the premiums were  sufficient to allow  a 10% increase  
Ref: DRN24622962each year, gave  the false impression that the cost of cover,  mortality  rates  etc. were 
still in line with the original assumptions
What confidence  can Ms H have that a closed policy wont have further 
disproportionate premium  rises in the future?
The adjudicator  ignored his question  about  the impact  of the FCAs review of closed 
policies in 2016 and the need  to treat each  policyholder individually
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  Ms H and her representatives concerns, particularly the fact that Old 
Mutual had never supplied long-term  projections  for the policys  value and likely premium 
requirements until last year. Clearly, this detailed information showed, for the first time, the 
very substantial rises required in the near and medium term future, rises which are likely to 
be unaffordable.
I also recognise that if Ms H had been  presented with these sorts of projections earlier she 
may have  chosen  to cancel the policy or reduce the sum assured (rather than increase it 
each year).
But I do not believe OId Mutual was required to present such figures and in my experience 
other providers did not do so either.  Instead  they just reviewed the sustainability  of the policy  
over the next period in question, annually or every five years, and provide figures  for that 
defined period only. In this respect  I am satisfied that Old Mutual  acted within the relevant  
Financial Services Authoritys guidance at the time (2007). For example, the clause headed 
Responsibilities of product providers set out what should be included  in annual  statements 
and this did not include long-term  projections  of likely fund values/premium rises; instead  this 
guidance specified a more limited  amount of key information which  from what Ive read  
Old Mutual included in the annual statements Ms H received.
While this information is, as Ms Hs representative points out, limited  and less than ideal, 
there were reasons for this. Firstly,  because  the reviews are based on investment 
predictions about future investment returns, and these become less and less meaningful the 
further forward one projects. And, secondly, a business will periodically review  its own 
actuarial rates taking into account  the policyholders  in its overall fund.
That said,  The FCA did offer guidance  in this area and this appears to have led Old Mutual  
to provide the extra information in 2018.
Having read the Thematic Review which Ms Hs representative  refers to, I do not share his 
view that Old Mutual has breached the spirit or intentions  of either its recommendations or 
the broader FCA guidelines on treating customers fairly. Much of the review concentrated on 
improved communication,  transparency  etc. along  with product specific  detail about exit 
charges etc. Ive seen  nothing to indicate  it was designed to prevent Old Mutual  carrying  out 
its whole  of life policy reviews in the way always set out in the terms and conditions.
Given this, Im satisfied that Old Mutuals  projections  are more likely than not based on 
actuarial calculations, the state of the underlying fund and projected  investment returns.  
While Ms H and her representative are understandably dismayed that the future premium 
rise projections are far higher than to date I do not find it surprising (given my experience of 
Ref: DRN24622963these types of policies). The actual underlying  fund value  has been very small compared  to 
the sum assured for many years so the cost of cover has been  largely  borne  by the monthly  
premiums which have  risen by far more than the increase in the sum assured for some  
years.
As investment rates continue to be very low by historical standards  it is clear that the returns  
on Ms Hs fund value will only have a marginal impact on paying  for the ongoing  cost of 
cover. If they achieve a 4.5% return (which arguably  is optimistic) this would only deliver  
around £3,000  towards the cost of cover annually.
Also, as Ms H and her representative  know, the annual cost of cover is based  on the 
actuarial likelihood of the policyholder  dying during that year (plus  the insurers costs etc.) So 
while the cost of cover looks prohibitively exorbitant when Ms H reaches, say 90, let alone 
95, it is based on the statistical probability of death  during that year. Given a sum assured of 
around £850,000 I do not find the projected premium costs  surprising or suspicious.
I understand the particular concerns about a closed  policy and Old Mutuals decision to 
revisit its actuarial projections, effectively increasing  the premium  costs to Ms H. But again 
Ive seen no evidence  that it has done  anything wrong or not permitted within  the original 
terms and conditions.
Overall, while  I fully accept that this policy is in danger of becoming unaffordable and this is 
clearly extremely  unfortunate I have  not seen evidence that Old Mutual has done anything  
wrong. The premiums were always reviewable,  investment returns  have fallen steadily and 
at times dramatically since its outset, and the costs were always  likely to increase 
significantly when the underlying price  of cover rose significantly  in older age.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2462296