K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the way in which Acromas Insurance Company  Limited  has managed
a claim he made on a home insurance  policy  which included a legal  expenses  insurance
(LEI) policy.
All references to Acromas  include its claims handlers and administrators of the LEI policy.
background
The full background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated  June  2019.  
Ive attached a copy  and it forms part of this, my final decision.  
In summary,  in November  2017 Mr C discovered evidence of rising damp in a house he 
owns with his wife, Mrs C (the house). Many years before  that, in 1994  (before Mr and 
Mrs C bought the house), a company, who Ill call P, provided  chemicals  that were used by a 
third party to damp proof the walls in the house. P provided a 30 year joint guarantee to the 
owners of the house at the time - along  with the company who installed the damp proofing.
Mr C sought to make a claim under his LEI policy (the policy) to cover the costs of legal 
representation to pursue a legal action against P for breach  of the guarantee (the claim)   
holding it responsible for the damp.
After obtaining  a barristers opinion confirming  that prospects of Mr C succeeding in the 
claim were at 65%,  Acromas agreed to fund the costs of Mr C pursuing the claim up to the 
value of the claim (£2,000) - as advised  by the barrister. 
Subsequently, in light of comments made  by Mr C about the need for an experts  report, 
Acromas asked for the barrister to be instructed to clarify the basis of his assessment, if  as 
reported by Mr C - an experts  report was needed to establish the cause of the damp to the 
house.
Mr C is unhappy that Acromas:
initially delayed confirming that the claim was covered under the terms of the policy;
only agreed to cover  his costs  up to £2,000;
wanted the barrister  to explain  the basis for his assessment on prospects in the 
absence of an experts report on causation; and
concluded that if the barrister advised that an experts report was needed  to confirm 
prospects of success, Mr C would  need to pay for this. 
I provisionally decided  not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint because:
Based  on the information Acromas initially received, I dont  think it unreasonably 
asked the law firm and the barrister to advise on whether the claim fell within the 
policy terms. And, ultimately, Acromas  actions didnt unreasonably delay the 
progress of Mr Cs claim.
Acromas reasonably relied  on the barristers advice from June 2018 by limiting 
Ref: DRN24496612Mr Cs costs to £2,000 under the policy.
Acromas request to ask the barrister  to explain:
(i) how he reached his advice about the prospects of Mr C succeeding  in his 
claim being at 65% and;
(ii) whether, based on all the available evidence, he still agrees with that advice.
wasnt unreasonable.
Acromas didnt comment on my provisional  decision. 
Mr C has made numerous observations and raised  further points including: 
The policy covers claims so long as theyre  valued more than £100  and prospects 
are assessed to be at least  51%. And costs should be covered up to the indemnity of 
£100,000
The photos hes provided establish damp to the rear wall of the house.  A builder, who 
provided a quote for remedial works, has said this was the result of a problem with 
the damp proof course. So the cause of the damp has been  established  without the 
need for a further expert report. The guarantee for the damp proof course says P and 
the installer of the damp proof  course  are joint and severally  liable. As the installer 
has gone out of business, it follows that P should be liable for the damp 
The cause of the damp isnt refuted by P. 
The purpose of the expert report suggested by his legal representative  wasnt  to help 
establish whether  his claim  enjoyed reasonable prospects of success or whether 
there is damp in the house; that had already been established.  It was to ensure that 
no other damage that was hidden and unaccounted for, and to save time - as the 
court would be likely to order the parties  to obtain an experts  report if legal 
proceedings were  issued
I should consider  rule 35 of the Civil Procedure  Rules 1998. In particular, that no 
party may call an expert or put in evidence an experts report  without  the courts 
permission. And expert evidence shall be restricted to that which is reasonably  
required to resolve the proceedings. 
There is no reason for him to have  to pay for any expert report; there  arent any 
exclusions in the policy relating to an expert  report, and the cost of any expert report  
should be covered  as a disbursement under the terms of the policy
His legal  representative and a barrister have  both confirmed that the claim enjoys 
reasonable prospects of success without the need of an expert  report. And his legal 
representative has confirmed that she would act for him, even if shed been 
representing him on privately paying  basis
Other solicitors have  also confirmed  that the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of 
success
Ref: DRN24496613Costs should  not be limited  to £2,000 as the costs to repair the damp problem could 
be considerably  more than that
Proportionality is not defined  under the policy
The compensation that our investigator recommended  Acromas  pay him for trouble 
and upset should be reinstated
Acromas claims handlers arent legally trained, and he feels victimised
The policy was mis-sold to him
There are wider  issues  with LEI and such policies arent fit for purpose
I wasnt qualified to determine the issues of his complaint and this service isnt 
impartial
Mr C has also referred  me to:
-a case study issued by this Service  which explained the facts of case,  where we 
deemed it fair and reasonable  for the LEI provider to pay the cost of an expert report  
as the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success; and 
-personal references given in support of his honesty and integrity  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  That includes the further points made  by 
Mr C in over two hundred  emails hes sent, or copied me into, since issuing my provisional  
decision  as summarised above. 
I know Mr C will not be happy with this but, having considered very carefully what  hes said,  I 
havent changed my thoughts outlined in my provisional decision.  Im satisfied that the 
manner in which Acromas  has managed the claim to date is fair and reasonable, and Im not 
persuaded that Mr Cs been victimised in any way. So, Im not upholding his complaint. 
Its not disputed  that Mr Cs legal representative did initially assess prospects of Mr C 
succeeding in the claim to be 55%.  And that the barrister subsequently assessed prospects 
to be at 65%. It was this advice that resulted in Acromas confirming it would fund the claim,  
subject to the remaining terms of the policy. 
However, around October 2018, there was a discussion  between  Mr C and Acromas  about 
whether an expert report was required at that stage.  And in an email dated 
mid-October 2018, Mr C said:
"Without an Expert Report, how does ANYBODY  at (Acromas) know whether my 
claim is valid or not ?
-Do YOU know what the cause  of the damp is on my property ?
-Are YOU an Expert in Damp ?
Ref: DRN24496614-Is ANYBODY at (Acromas)  an expert in damp ?
How does your statement :-
"I feel it is necessary to confirm that if the expert  report is required ... the costs for 
same would not be covered under the policy."
... comply  with the . policy terms and conditions  ?
PLEASE SEE THE ATTACHED PHOTOGRAPHS as were included with the 
application at the time of the claim :-
 without an Experts Report   I will be most grateful, if you will please  explain the 
cause of the damp on my property ...
If you require more  substantive photographs I am entirely content to oblige,  at which  
point you can please confirm whether or not the damp is caused by a breakdown of 
the (damp proof course) that carries  a 30 Year  Guarantee.
I dont think Acromas acted unreasonably  by interpreting  Mr Cs comments  to mean that 
without an experts report, the cause of the damp  couldnt be determined. And considering 
these comments, I dont think Acromas unreasonably  questioned  the basis  on which Mr C 
had been advised that the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success.  Nor do I think it 
was unreasonable for it to request that the barrister be instructed to clarify the basis on 
which he assessed prospects, if an expert report was needed to establish the most likely 
cause of the damp  as advised  by Mr C and the legal representative. Particularly as the 
legal representative  subsequently advised Acromas in March 2019 that:
without a report,  I do not believe that this claim has any reasonable prospects of 
being successful.
The legal representative did say she wanted to clarify  that advice in an email dated  
1 August 2019,  which post dated the date of my provisional decision.  She said:
It is not that I feel this case has no reasonable prospects, what I am saying is that 
without an independent expert  report,  not a quote for work, I feel that the claim will go 
to court  and the court would advise us to get a report. I was therefore trying to save  
time and money  for you, as insurers of the claim
I have advised,  as has counsel,  that we feel this claim has reasonable prospects 
and that is based on the evidence to hand. This may be subject to change  if and 
when an independent expert  report is obtained and I can reassess the prospects at 
that stage and advise you. 
Thats different to what the legal representative reported in March 2019. And so, I asked 
Acromas to provide  its comments  in response to the legal representatives email. 
Acromas has said:
We have to consider  the following issues.
1.We have funded the costs of obtaining Counsels advice and we were 
prepared to fund the reasonable and proportionate  legal  costs  in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions and general industry practice.  
Ref: DRN244966152.It was Mr C who raised the validity of the advice provided by the barrister.  
The barrister was very specific in that he had assessed the claim against  (P) 
as having reasonable  prospects of success at 65%.   It was Mr C who 
questioned the fact there was no evidence of the cause  of the damp.  The fact 
there is damp does  not mean that the cause of that damp was due to the 
actions of the proposed defendant and we were entitled to make enquiries  at 
that time due to the customers comments.  There may have been other 
reasons for the damp ...  In raising  this lack of evidence, Mr C may have 
prejudiced his own and the insurers position. (The legal  representative) 
confirmed  that she did not believe the claim would have prospects of 
success without the report, especially as (P) had denied liability.  
There have been  various ambiguous comments surrounding the report.  The 
barrister has not commented further  as to whether the assessment was 
conducted on evidence  to support the prospects or whether this advice  was 
based on the customers comments alone However, we would not fund the 
legal costs at that time due to the issues raised by the customer  in relation to the 
lack of expert evidence  to support his claim.
Given the legal representatives inconsistent advice and Mr Cs comments in October  2018,  I 
dont think Acromas has unreasonably maintained that the barrister  should be instructed to 
clarify the basis on which he advised  that the claim had reasonable prospects of success  
without an experts report  and whether, based on all the available evidence, he still agrees 
with that advice. Particularly  as its agreed  that the cost of this advice wont  be included in 
the costs limit of £2,000.
Ive considered what Mr C says about  a party not being able to call an expert  or put in 
evidence an experts  report without the courts  permission. However, its not uncommon  for a 
legal representative  to request an expert  report before court  proceedings are issued to report 
on likely  causation in order to assist  establishing  things like the merits of a claim and who the 
claim should be bought against.  
Ive also taken into account what Mr C says about  obtaining a quote  for the remedial works 
needed, and a witness statement, from the contractor who provided that quote. However, 
Mr Cs legal representative  was aware  of that quote and still said in March 2019 that without 
an experts report, the claim  didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. 
Mr C also says that other firms of solicitors have  said that he does have a strong claim. 
However, Ive seen nothing from those solicitors which expressly say that theyve considered  
all of the necessary  information and Mr C is more likely to succeed in the claim than not. In 
any event, I dont think Acromas has acted unfairly by placing more reliance on the 
inconsistent advice it received from the legal representative who was acting for Mr C at the 
time  who he requested  be appointed  for her expertise  in this particular area of law. 
It may well be that the barrister is able to clarify the basis  on which  he advised that prospects 
of success were at 65% without the need for an experts report,  and if so, I foresee Acromas 
continuing to fund his proportionate  legal costs subject to the other terms of the policy.
However, its for Mr C to establish that his claim enjoys reasonable prospects success  for it 
to be funded by Acromas.  
Ref: DRN24496616So, if the barrister advises that the prospects of Mr C succeeding in the claim are less than 
51% without  an experts report, then Im likely  to say in any future complaints brought before 
me that Acromas position that Mr C should pay for an experts report to establish the most 
likely cause of the damp,  to be fair and reasonable. 
Ive considered the case study Mr C has referred me to where this Service said the insurers 
decision not to fund an expert report  was unfair.  However, Im satisfied the circumstances of 
Mr Cs case is different  to that example. In the case Mr C refers me to, it was determined 
that the claim had reasonable  prospects of success  so it was fair for the insurer to fund the 
report. Whereas, Acromas has received inconsistent advice about whether the claim enjoys 
reasonable prospects of success without the experts report. And whether the expert  report  
should be funded by Acromas under the terms of the policy as a disbursement, is likely to be 
dependent on what the barrister says about  how he reached his previous conclusions on 
prospects without sight of a report. The issue of whether  the report  is a proportionate cost 
that Acromas should be responsible for under the policy will also become relevant following  
that.
Im also persuaded  that Acromas has acted reasonably  by concluding it will only fund costs 
up to £2,000. And I dont agree that just because Mr Cs claim is valued  at more than £100, 
Acromas should cover  costs up to the maximum indemnity of £100,000. Generally,  we 
wouldnt expect an insurer to cover  the legal costs  of pursuing a claim where  the costs are 
likely to outweigh the monetary value of the claim.  Mr Cs legal costs  are defined under the 
policy as all properly incurred and proportionate  disbursements, fees and expenses charged 
by the law firm. Although  proportionality isnt expressly defined  under the policy, Im 
satisfied Acromas hasnt unreasonably relied on the barristers  advice  from June 2018  which  
concludes that if costs are kept below around  £2,000 (the likely value of the claim), it would 
be proportionate to continue with the claim.
Ive taken on board all of Mr Cs other points, including what  he says about  LEI more  
generally and his good character. But Ive considered the individual circumstances of his 
complaint against  Acromas, as Im required to do. And whilst Ive got no reason to doubt 
Mr Cs integrity,  for the reasons set out above  and contained in my provisional decision, I 
dont think Acromas has acted unreasonably  in the way its managed  his claim to date.
Mr C has also said the policy was mis-sold to him. I havent considered  that aspect of his 
complaint as he first needs to complain to the business who sold the policy to him. If he 
doesnt receive a reply  to his complaint within 8 weeks  or if hes unhappy with the 
response - he can refer that complaint to us to investigate.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24496617COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the way in which Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  has managed
a claim he made on a home insurance  policy   which included a legal expenses  insurance
(LEI) policy.
All references  to Acromas  include its claims handlers  and administrator of the LEI policy.
Background
In November 2017 Mr C discovered evidence  of rising damp in a house he owns with his
wife, Mrs C (the house).  Many years before that, in 1994 (before Mr and Mrs C bought the
house), a company,  who Ill call P, provided  chemicals that were  used by a third party  to
damp proof the walls in the house. P provided a 30 year joint guarantee to the owners of the
house at the time - along with the company  who installed  the damp  proofing.
Mr C sought  to make  a claim under  his LEI policy  to cover the costs of legal representation
to pursue a legal action against P for breach of the guarantee   holding it responsible for the
damp.
Initially Acromas sought to instruct one of its panel  firms to consider whether the cause  of
action was one that was covered under the policy and if so, to assess  whether  Mr C had
reasonable prospects to pursue that claim.  However, on Mr Cs request,  and because hed
raised concerns about that panel firm before when representing him in a different claim,  it
agreed that he could instruct a law firm of his choice (the law firm). That was on the basis
the law firm would instruct a suitably qualified barrister to provide an opinion on his claim.
Before instructing a barrister the law firm wrote to Acromas at the end of January 2018. It set
Mr Cs potential  claim and said:
We will require an expert surveyors  report, which  is court compliant, to detail why
the raising damp has arisen and if this is due to the chemicals used or the installation
of the product
In terms of prospects of success,  based on the information  we currently hold we
would advise that (Mr C) has more than 55% chance of successfully making  a claim.
However we would  assess  prospects  at each pertinent stage. The next being
obtaining an expert surveyors  report.
Turning to the issue  of proportionality, an expert surveyors  report varies in cost
(generally between  £750 - £1500) and we can obtain more precise costing  for you on
the understanding that we are indemnified  for the work  we have carried out so far
and up to the consideration of the experts report. After receipt of the experts  report
we would then reassess the prospects of success and advise accordingly. We do not
believe that a letter of claim should  be sent without  an expert surveyors report  which
will set out in full, the full extent of any damage and the reasons for the same
Acromas replied a few days later confirming that before it was able to formally appoint  the
law firm, it required a barrister of Mr Cs choice to assess the prospects  of him succeeding in
his claim and to advise  on proportionality and the value  of the claim.  It said it would  meet the
cost of that advice.
The barrister provided his advice  at the end of March 2018. He said that given the value of
the claim, it would be allocated  to the small claims track. And if Mr C was successful he
couldnt expect to recover  his legal costs, other than very limited fixed costs and given the
suggestion that a new damp proof  course would  cost less than £1,500 it must be doubted
whether it makes good economic sense to litigate  this matter.
Ref: DRN24496618But he also advised that a letter before  action  should  be drafted to P along with an offer to
settle the claim. He also gave an indication of costs. But he didnt advise  on the prospects of
success.
Upon receipt  of that advice, in April 2018, Acromas again  requested the law firm instruct the
barrister to advise on the prospects of Mr C succeeding in his claim, and explicitly whether  it
would be proportionate to litigate  this claim,  as well as whether or not the claim would be
covered under the terms of the policy.
The barrister provided a further advice in mid-June 2018. He said:
- prospects  of success were  at 65%;
- the claim for breach  of warranty  fell within  the LEI policy terms and there werent   
  any applicable  exclusions;  and
- the claim was worth slightly more than £2,000 and at best Mr C might recover that
   amount. So long as the costs of pursuing  the matter  to judgement were  kept below
   this figure then most right-thinking lawyers would  consider  the exercise to have 
   been  proportionate.
Acromas received that advice in late July 2018. And although it didnt confirm whether Mr C
did have a direct contract with P, relying on the advice,  it agreed to appoint  the law firm to
act for Mr C and sent it terms  of appointment  in early August 2018. Acromas  confirmed it
would indemnify the law firm up to £2,000. The law firm signed and returned the terms of
appointment at the end of September 2018.
Mr C wasnt  happy about a number of things including the fact that Acromas had sought to
restrict legal costs to £2,000. In various  correspondence  throughout October and November
2018 he questioned how, without an expert surveyors  report, Acromas could explain the
cause of the damp  in his home - and without an expert report how did anybody  at Acromas
know whether  his claim was valid or not.
In light of these comments, Acromas requested  the law firm ask the barrister to confirm the
basis on which prospects of Mr C succeeding in his claim  were assessed to be at 65% -
particularly if an experts report  was required  to confirm  the cause of the damp  and
establish who the claim  should be against. Acromas said it would be willing to pay for further
clarification from the barrister. But it said, if the barrister concluded a report  would  be needed
to confirm prospects, Mr C would need  to pay for that report.
To date the law firm hasnt  instructed the barrister  to clarify his advice.
Ultimately, our investigator said it was fair and reasonable for Acromas  to limit Mr Cs costs
of pursuing his claim against P to £2,000 on the grounds of proportionality. But she said if
the barrister required an experts report to confirm prospects were at 51% Acromas should
be responsible for the cost of that - as it has already  accepted the claim and appointed the
law firm to represent him.
Neither Acromas  nor Mr C agreed with that view. So the complaint has been passed to me
to look at everything afresh and make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Mr Cs original complaint to us was that Acromas was limiting the law firms costs  when the
policy provided him with an indemnity of £100,000. However, the complaint has evolved to
also include  whether its fair for Acromas to request that the barrister  provide a further
Ref: DRN24496619addendum to his advice, and whether, if an expert surveyors report  is required to now
confirm prospects, its fair for Acromas to ask Mr C to pay for this. So those  are the issues
Ive focused on.
With that in mind Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having done  so, Im not
intending to find that Acromas has done anything wrong. Before I explain why, Id like to
assure both parties  that Ive read the entire case file which runs into several thousand pages
of documents. And whilst I havent addressed each point Mr C has made, Ive taken on
board all of his comments.
checking whether the claim is covered under the terms of the LEI policy
When Mr C made  a claim under his LEI policy, Acromas was entitled to check that claim
against the policy terms to see whether it was covered. Initially, Acromas said it didnt  think it
was; it didnt  think  it fell within the type of breach of contract claim the policy  would cover
because Mr C didnt personally enter into the guarantee with P  he and Mrs C, in effect,
inherited the guarantee when they bought their house.
Based on the information Acromas initially  received,  I dont think it was unreasonable for it to
ask the law firm and the barrister to advise  on whether the claim fell within the policy terms
before advising whether the claim  had reasonable  prospects of success (and whether  it
would be proportionate to litigate).
I havent seen anything from Acromas to the law firm in January 2018  asking it to instruct  the
barrister to advise on whether the claim  was covered  under the policy terms.
What I can see is that the barrister didnt comment on whether the claim  was covered under
the terms of the policy in his initial advice dated March  2018. So its possible Acromas didnt
make clear to the law firm what it wanted the barrister to advise on. But I dont need to make
a finding on that.
Thats because Im satisfied Acromas did make it clear  to the law firm that it required the
barristers advice on prospects and proportionality and those issues arent covered  in the
advice either.  So even if Acromas didnt make clear that the advice should  also include an
opinion on whether the policy  covered  the sort of claim Mr C wanted to pursue, the law firm
wouldve still needed to instruct the barrister  to provide  an addendum to his advice and so
this didnt  impact Mr C. Nor did it unnecessary delay  the progress of his claim.
limiting legal  costs to £2,000
Mr C says its unfair for Acromas to limit his legal costs to value  of his claim  on the basis of
proportionality.
Mr C says that as long as he has more chance of winning  his claim than losing it, his legal
costs should be indemnified  up to £100,000 - as thats the indemnity provided by the policy. I
understand his point.  But generally we wouldnt  expect an insurer to cover the legal costs of
pursuing a claim where the costs are likely  to outweigh the monetary value  of the claim.
And although the policy  does cover Mr Cs legal costs, these are defined  as all properly
incurred and proportionate disbursements, fees and expenses charged by the law firm. So I
dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Acromas  to rely on the barristers advice from
June 2018 confirming that as long as costs are kept below around £2,000 (the likely  value of
the claim), it would be proportionate to continue with the claim.
seeking further  clarity from the barrister and the need for an experts  report
Im satisfied, given some  of the things Mr C said to Acromas in October  and November
Ref: DRN2449661102018, that it reasonably requested the law firm to ask the barrister to confirm the basis of his
advice that Mr Cs claim enjoyed reasonable  prospects of success against P - without an
experts report.
The law firm has also recently confirmed, in March 2019, that without such a report the claim
doesnt have reasonable  prospects of success. That further supports why Acromas has
asked the barrister to clarify the basis of his assessment; both the advice its received from
both legal professionals instructed is at odds  and requires clarification.
So, I dont think its unreasonable for Acromas to ask the barrister to explain:
how he reached his advice about the prospects of Mr C succeeding in his claim
            being at 65% and;
whether, based on all the available evidence, he still agrees with that advice.
Acromas has agreed  to pay the reasonable costs of the barristers  advice and its confirmed
the costs of that advice will be separate from the £2,000 costs limit its set for Mr C to pursue
his claim. I think thats fair.
If the barrister provides a fully reasoned opinion advising  that prospects of Mr C succeeding
in his claim are at 51% or above, without the expert report,  Acromas has said it will continue
to fund Mr Cs legal  costs  up to £2,000 (inclusive  of VAT) to pursue  his claim. Thats  what  I
wouldve expected  it to do.
If the barrister advises that the prospects of Mr C succeeding in his claim are less than 51%
without an experts report, then Im likely to say in any future complaints  brought before me
that Acromas position that Mr C should pay for an experts report to establish  the most
likely cause of the damp, to be fair and reasonable.  And in that particular scenario Acromas
wouldnt be responsible for any costs incurred by the law firm assisting Mr C with the
instruction of the expert.
I note the policy says Mr C must send the law firm all information or documents required to
support his claim at his own expense; Acromas wont pay any costs incurred before the
claims accepted. That implies once the claim is accepted, Acromas  will cover Mr Cs costs
subject to the other  terms of the policy.
Although Mr Cs claim was accepted  at the end of July 2018 it relied on the barristers
opinion from June 2018 when doing so. Acromas representatives arent  legally trained and
usually we wouldnt expect  them to intervene unless  the advice given  was obviously wrong.
In this particular case, theres nothing to indicate the assessment of prospects was incorrect
when it accepted  the claim.
But had Acromas  received Mr Cs comments about not knowing the cause of the damp
before, or around the time of, receiving  the barristers  further advice, its unlikely the claim
wouldve been  accepted  without  further clarification about whether an experts report was
required to confirm prospects.
So at this stage it doesnt  look as though Acromas  would be acting unreasonably  by asking
Mr C to meet  the cost of such a report, if one is needed  to establish reasonable prospects of
success. After all, its a pre-requisite under  the policy  that for legal costs  to be covered,
Mr Cs claim must enjoy reasonable prospects.
If the barrister now advises  an experts report is needed to establish that, it looks as though it
would be fair and reasonable given my provisional  findings above for Mr C to pay for that
report  as he wouldve  done  if that advice had been received before the claim had been
accepted. Particularly as theres nothing to suggest that the evidence  has changed since
Ref: DRN244966111June 2018.
my provisional  decision
Currently, I dont think Acromas Insurance Company Limited has acted  unfairly or
unreasonably in the way its managed Mr Cs claim to date.  And Im intending to find that the
course of action its suggested going forwards  as set out above  is reasonable.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2449661