K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about Calpe  Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it is 
pursuing him for costs in relation to a motor insurance claim after he sold his car.
background 
Mr M sold his car on 26 September 2018  and the car was involved in an accident  the 
following day. The purchaser of the car hadnt insured the vehicle when it was involved in an 
accident and the car was recovered  by the police.  As the car was last insured by Calpe it 
was responsible for the costs incurred  by the third party.
Calpe has since looked to recover its costs from Mr M. As he didnt  tell Calpe that he had 
sold the car it felt that he was responsible for the costs. So, Mr M complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and upheld his complaint. She thought that 
Calpe hadnt acted fairly by not pursuing  the driver of the car in the first instance. And 
thought that Calpe should pay Mr M £150  compensation  for the stress and inconvenience 
this has caused  him.
Calpe didnt agree.  It said that Mr M hadnt informed  it on the day of sale that he had sold the 
car and felt that Mr M should be held responsible. So, the matter  has been passed  to me for 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
As Calpes  own investigator identified I would expect it to pursue the actual driver of the car 
in the first instance  as opposed  to Mr M. There isnt any dispute who the driver of the car 
was, and that Mr M had sold the car before  it was involved in the accident.
There is clear  evidence  that Mr M had sold the car and the driver  (who bought the car) has 
been identified  by Mr M, the police and Calpes own investigator. So, I would expect Calpe to 
pursue the person who caused  the accident  and was the owner  of the car as opposed to 
Mr M in the first instance. Indeed, Mr Ms policy indicates that it will pursue the person who 
incurred liability although it reserves  the right to recover from Mr M. But Id expect it to look 
to pursue the actual driver initially.  
I understand Calpes  point  that Mr M needed  to tell it that he had sold the car. But I dont  
think it was unreasonable for Mr M to wait a few days to tell Calpe. He simply waited until a 
convenient time and suspended the policy while he bought a new car which he placed on 
cover a few days later through his broker. 
So, although  I can understand Calpes  position. I think  it is only fair, in the particular 
circumstances of this case,  for Calpe to pursue the driver of the car who caused the accident 
in the first instance,  especially  as there  isnt any dispute about  this, and the driver is just as 
traceable as Mr M. It would always have been  held responsible as the other driver didnt 
insure the car in any event. And I think that Mr M should be paid £150  compensation as he 
Ref: DRN22927602has been caused a fair degree of stress  and inconvenience  by Calpe only looking to pursue 
him, as opposed to the actual driver and owner of the car.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe 
Insurance Company Limited  to pursue the driver of the car as opposed to Mr M for the costs 
incurred. And pay Mr M £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2292760