K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Mrs B are unhappy about  the valuation carried out on their property by an 
independent surveyor  (which I will call ES) instructed by Hodge Life Assurance Company 
Limited when they were  taking out a further  advance on their lifetime mortgage. The 
complaint has been brought  on their behalf  by their financial adviser, Mr S. 
background
Mr R and Mrs B have  a lifetime mortgage with Hodge taken out in September  2017.  In 
November 2018  they wanted to borrow an additional  £60,000 from Hodge. They instructed 
Mr Ss firm of financial advisers to give them advice on this.  A valuation of the property was 
necessary, for which Mr R and Mrs B paid £600. Hodge  instructed ES to carry out the 
valuation. 
ES valued the property  at £680,000.  This came as a surprise  to Mr R and Mrs B, because  
the property had originally been  valued at £775,000 when it was valued in August 2017  for 
the original mortgage.  As a result  of this lower valuation, Hodge was only willing to lend an 
additional £45,750. Mr R and Mrs B decided to proceed on that basis and the further 
borrowing of £45,750  was released to them.
Mr R and Mrs B then made an application to another lifetime mortgage  provider, and in 
February 2019 they were given a property  valuation of £750,000. Mr R also found  
information from estate  agents which led him to believe the valuation carried out by ES was 
incorrect.
In March 2019 Mr S, on behalf of Mr R and Mrs B, challenged Hodge about  ESs valuation of 
the property in January 2019.  Hodge  said that it was too late for this to be challenged, 
because Mr R and Mrs B had gone ahead with the application to borrow  £45,000 in any 
event and didnt  challenge the valuation at the time.
Mr S said that Hodge should have raised questions with ES about  the valuation  and taken 
action itself. Mr S said that Hodges refusal to do so was unreasonable and left his clients 
unable to borrow the extra funds theyd applied for.  Mr S thought  that Hodge should,  at its 
own expense,  have sought  an independent  professional valuation.
Hodge didnt uphold the complaint. It said that no action had been taken at the time to 
challenge the valuation and Mr R and Mrs C had proceeded with their application  on the 
basis of the valuation of £680,000.
Unhappy with this, Mr S raised  a complaint with us on behalf  of Mr R and Mrs C. An 
investigator looked the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  She was satisfied 
Hodge had been entitled to rely on the opinion of ES when the application was made.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says that, 
because his clients had paid a valuation fee, they believe  that Hodge would be responsible  
for investigating the possibility of a substantial error having been made by ES. And if this 
investigation by Hodge proves that a substantial error has been  made  by ES, then Mr R and 
Mrs C would have the right to get Hodge to increase  the amount of the additional borrowing 
from £45,750 to the £60,000 they had originally  wanted to borrow.
Ref: DRN26154222Mr S also made some other observations about Lifetime mortgages, which  I will address 
below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
the parties, and Ive also taken into account the law in relation to property  valuations.
Ive noted the points  Mr S has made  about  what he says are shortcomings  in the way 
lifetime mortgage lenders  protect customers. He believes  there  should  be a valuation  review 
procedure available  for all lifetime mortgages set out in the terms of the mortgage offer to 
help protect the applicants.
It is the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority,  which sets out what information must be 
put into a mortgage offer, pursuant to The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of 
Business Sourcebook  (MCOB). I dont have  any power  to tell either Hodge as an individual 
business or lifetime  mortgage providers generally to change their mortgage  documentation. 
The documentation  provided by Hodge is compliant with its regulatory  obligations under 
MCOB.
Mr S says that Hodge should have sought  an independent professional  valuation  of the 
property. But that is exactly  what Hodge  did.
The valuation in January 2019  was carried out by surveyors accredited by the Royal  
Institution of Chartered Surveyors.  They were not employees of Hodge. This means that 
Hodges duty of care was to ensure  that the valuation was carried out by a properly  qualified  
surveyor, and Im satisfied that this duty was fulfilled. In the circumstances, Hodge was 
entitled to rely on the professional opinion of ES, as its independent, professional  adviser.
The January  2019 valuation gave  a figure  which was approximately  12% lower  than the 
figure given  in August 2017.  Mr S says that this shows the January 2019 valuation  was 
incorrect and that the figure of £680,000 should  have alerted Hodge  that something  was 
wrong, prompting Hodge to carry out its own investigation at its own expense.  As I said 
above, Hodge is entitled to rely on the opinion of its professional advisers and, as I will 
explain, I dont  think there  was any need  for Hodge to question  the valuation.
Mr S says there had been a 2% drop in the property market between August 2017  and 
January 2019   and I agree that that figure  appears to be accurate for the area in which the 
property is situated.  That would suggest that in January 2019, if the property had been 
correctly valued  at £780,000 in August 2017, a 2% decrease from its August 2017 valuation  
of £775,000 would give a figure of £759,500. 
But the tolerable margin of error in relation to property valuations  is between 5% and 15%. 
So there might have been a margin of error which over-valued the property in August 2017; 
or there might have been a margin  of error  which undervalued  the property in January  2019. 
But in either event, whether the property  had been  over- or under-valued, the margins of 
error were within the acceptable tolerances.
In the circumstances, this does not lead me to conclude that the figure of £680,000  provided 
by ES in January 2019 was so low that it should  have caused Hodge  to conclude  that 
something was wrong with the valuation. 
Ref: DRN26154223When challenged on the valuation  after the application had been  completed  Hodge  
looked at the properties  Mr R had found  which he believed proved that the valuation  was too 
low. But Hodge  also sourced properties which supported the valuation provided  by ES and 
which Hodge said were  more like Mr R and Mrs Bs property than the ones Mr R had found.  
Hodge wasnt under  any obligation to do this, once the application had been completed, so 
Im satisfied that Hodge did more than it needed  to do to address  Mr R and Mrs Bs 
concerns.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr R and Mrs B were  hoping for, but after taking  account  of 
everything they, Mr S and Hodge have said, dont  think  Hodge has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2615422