K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  BISL Limiteds handling  of his car insurance policy.
background
BISL are an insurance  broker.  That means  they find policies for their customers but they 
dont provide insurance cover themselves. They work with a number of specific  insurance 
companies known  as panel insurers. When a customer asks BISL  for car insurance, BISL 
find a policy  from one of their panel  insurers,  which they (BISL) think  is suitable for the 
customer. Often its the one with the most  competitive  price.  BISL then give the customer 
enough information about the policy to enable the customer  to make an informed decision as 
to whether or not they want that policy.
BISL arranged  car insurance for Mr L in 2016  in this way. The policy was underwritten by 
another company (the insurer). The premium for the 2016 policy year was just over £1,000. 
Mr L agreed to the policy automatically renewing  in 2017.
When the policy came to renew in 2017, BISL  asked their panel insurers  for quotes for 
Mr Ls 2017 policy. The 2016 insurer didn't offer to renew Mr Ls policy  and only one panel 
insurer was prepared to cover Mr L for the 2017 policy year,  all the others refused. So the 
insurer for the 2017 policy was different to the 2016 one. The premium  for the 2017 policy 
was over £5,000.
BISL uploaded Mr Ls 2017 renewal invitation  with information about the new policy onto his 
online portal three weeks before the renewal  date. They also sent a copy of the renewal 
invitation to Mr L by post on 27 June  2017. On the day the policy renewed on 14 July 2017,  
BISL sent Mr L an email  and a text message to confirm the policy had renewed, and they 
sent him his new policy documents by post.
It wasnt until in January 2018  that Mr L realised his monthly direct  debit payments were 
substantially higher than the previous year.  He then contacted BISL  and cancelled  his policy. 
He also complained saying the very substantial  increase in premium  was unfair and that 
BISL had not protected his interests.
BISL didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L didnt think  that was fair so he brought his 
complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. She felt that BISL  had dealt 
with Mr L fairly. She explained that BISL  wasnt responsible for setting the premium  as that 
was the role of the insurer. She also felt that BISL did enough  to bring  the new policy  and the 
premium increase to Mr Ls attention. As Mr L didnt agree with our adjudicator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
Mr L also complained  to the insurer.  Weve looked  at that under  a different reference number 
so I won't refer to it further in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr L, but Im not going to uphold his complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN21161502Ive considered all of Mr Ls points carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if BISL have dealt with Mr L in a fair and 
reasonable way.
The premium for the 2017 policy year was substantially higher than the 2016  policy  year, so 
I can understand why Mr L thought that was unfair.  But BISL didnt  set the price of the 
premium. They asked  their panel  insurers for quotes. Only one insurer  agreed to cover Mr L 
and it was the insurer that calculated the premium,  not BISL. 
Given the agreement  between BISL and Mr L to automatically renew the policy, I think  it was 
reasonable for BISL to go ahead with it. Had BISL not renewed the policy,  Mr L would have 
been without insurance which would have  been illegal. 
And I think BISL made reasonable efforts to bring the details of the new policy,  including  its 
cost, to Mr Ls attention.  They wrote  to him in advance  of the renewal and they uploaded the 
information on his online portal. They also emailed, texted and posted him information  on the 
day of the renewal. Had Mr L responded even after renewal, then he could have cancelled 
the policy and would  have been charged  pro-rata only for the days  he was insured, as 
happened when  he cancelled his policy in January 2018.
In the renewal pack BISL sent Mr L before they renewed the policy  they said Have  you 
checked that your insurance cover still meets your needs? Have  you considered shopping 
around to find the best deal for the cover  you want?. But it appears  that Mr L didn't check 
the renewal details at that time.  And if Mr L responded  to BISLs invitation to renew the 
policy, he could have  cancelled and gone  elsewhere. I understand he did that after he 
cancelled and got a much cheaper policy.
I understand Mr L was both unwell and moving  house around the time of the renewal. And I 
have sympathy for his situation. But Im satisfied BISL sent communication  to Mr Ls correct 
email address, mobile phone number and the postal address they had for him. I also note 
that Mr L said he had seen the direct  debit payments leaving his account, but that he 
confused them for another payment.
While I have a lot of sympathy for Mr Ls position,  I cant say BISL have done anything 
wrong. Im therefore not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019. 
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2116150