K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them Select  and 
Silver packaged bank  accounts in 2007  and 2011.
background
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. He didnt  think  that 
Lloyds had mis-sold the accounts. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at their complaint  and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Id like to explain  the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs W were given a clear  choice in taking the 
packaged accounts. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in working out what  
I think is most likely  to have happened, I have to think  about  everything Ive been told 
together with everything Ive been  provided with and see how this fits with what I do know.  
In other  words, what l have to do, in this case,  is decide what  I think is most likely to have 
happened having weighed up what both Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds  have been  able to 
provide me with.
From what  Ive seen, it looks like Mr and Mrs Ws account was initially upgraded to the 
Select account from a free one. Ive seen what Mr and Mrs W have said about them  being  
automatically upgraded and simply receiving a letter in the post. But that doesnt take into 
account that Mr and Mrs Ws account was switched on two separate  occasions. And the 
information Ive seen suggests that the sale of the Silver account took place after it was 
recommended to Mr and Mrs W because it contained similar benefits and it was cheaper. 
Id also point out that it isnt unusual for documentation  confirming  an upgrade to be sent to a 
consumer in the post after the sale. This is especially in circumstances where a bank adds a 
benefit to a packaged account like Lloyds did when it added  mobile phone insurance to the 
Select account in 2004. So I dont think that Mr and Mrs W receiving a letter confirming their 
account had been upgraded means that this took place without their permission. 
Overall and taking everything  Ive seen together, and while  Ive carefully thought  about what  
Mr and Mrs W have  said, I think its most  likely that Mr and Mrs Ws account  was upgraded 
on both occasions  as a result  of them choosing to do so.
I want to start by saying  that I think its likely Mr and Mrs W wouldve seen information  about 
most, if not all, of the benefits on the accounts before they took them  out, in order to make  
them appear as appealing  as possible.  And the best way to have done this wouldve been by 
showing them what theyd get for the monthly  fee.
Ref: DRN28500022A couple of the main benefits included on both the Select and Silver accounts  were 
breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. Mr and Mrs W used the breakdown  cover on 
a number of occasions. And they also registered at least one handset for the mobile phone  
insurance. So I think its fair to say that they had a need for these benefits and that they 
found having them useful.
Im open  to the possibility Mr and Mrs W may not have been told about  all of the significant 
features and exclusions on all of the benefits. But I havent seen anything in their 
circumstances to say that they wouldve been  significantly affected  by any of them.  So I dont 
think that clearer information on this wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out 
the accounts. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs W may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe that they havent 
benefitted from these  accounts as much  as theyd hoped and expected to when they initially 
upgraded. And given what Mr and Mrs W may have read or heard about packaged bank 
accounts in general,  I can understand why they might think  their accounts were mis-sold. 
But I think that Mr and Mrs W chose to take the Select and Silver accounts while having a 
decent appreciation of what they included. So overall I dont  think  that Lloyds did anything 
significantly wrong here. I want to reassure  Mr and Mrs W that Ive looked at all the 
information provided about their complaint. And Ive thought about everything theyve said. 
But having  done so, I dont think that Lloyds has treated them unfairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019 .
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2850002