K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the time it took Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) to process his 
claim for benefit after he was made redundant.
background
Mr R has an income  protection policy with Great  Lakes which provides for payment of a fixed 
monthly sum if hes made  redundant, provided  he meets  the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Mr R took out the policy in March  2017.
Mr R was made redundant  in December 2017. He notified Great  Lakes of his redundancy 
before his job ended and was sent a claim form. Mr R returned  his completed claim form to 
Great Lakes in February 2018. When they received his claim form Great Lakes spoke to 
Mr Rs employer to check when he was made  aware  that his job could be subject to 
redundancy. 
Mr Rs employer told Great Lakes that a takeover started in March 2017, but this involved  a 
different part of the company and would not have  affected Mr R. He would have been  made 
aware of the takeover in July 2017 when talks took place and employees were notified  of a 
potential TUPE transfer. The takeover was due to take place in September  2017, but this 
didnt happen,  and this is what led to the redundancies. Following this conversation 
Great Lakes requested copies of all information  and correspondences issued to Mr R in 
relation to the takeover  from March 2017. Mr R was advised of this when he called 
Great Lakes for an update  in mid-February 2018.
In late February 2018 Mr R contacted Great Lakes and told it that because of action hed 
taken against  his former employer he was unlikely to respond to any request for further 
information. Great Lakes  reviewed the information  Mr R had provided and decided  it still 
needed to pursue the request for the further  information, as it needed to establish  when 
Mr R first knew his job might be redundant. Mr R was told this when  he called Great  Lakes 
for an update on 28 February 2018.
On 14 March 2018 Mr R raised a complaint  about  the delay in Great  Lakes processing his 
claim as he said,  given  the circumstances, his former  employer wouldnt provide any further 
information. 
On 18 April 2018 Great Lakes heard  from Mr Rs former employer who provided a copy  of a 
letter about  a TUPE  transfer issued to all employees  in May 2017.   Great  Lakes reviewed 
this information  and on 21 April 2018 contacted Mr R to advise  him that his claim had been 
accepted.
Great Lakes didnt uphold  Mr Rs complaint about  delay  as it said his claim had to be 
validated, to do this it required  information from his former employer,  and as soon as this 
information was received  his claim was accepted.
Mr R then complained  to our service.  Our investigator considered  the case but didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr R remained  unhappy. He said that he took out the insurance to enable  him to pay bills in 
this situation but his claim wasnt approved  for four months. So he had to borrow from family 
and friends which was embarrassing.  He said that at a very stressful time he had to spend a 
Ref: DRN28082962disproportionate amount of time dealing with the claim. And he felt that hed provided 
paperwork to show his ex-employer would make the claim difficult.
As no agreement has been reached the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr R may have  notified Great Lakes of his redundancy  in December 2017, he 
didnt return his completed claim form until February 2018. At that point Great Lakes needed  
to investigate the claim and validate  the reason for his unemployment before his claim could 
be paid.
Mr Rs policy  sets out a number of conditions which must be met on the date the policy  
starts. One of these  conditions is that he must not be aware of any impending  
unemployment or if there is a risk you may become unemployed. Mr Rs received a letter  
from his former employer advising him of his redundancy in November 2017, but as the letter  
referred to a planned  takeover not progressing, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to 
contact the employer to obtain further information about exactly what staff had been told 
about the takeover.  
Great Lakes spoke to Mr Rs former employer shortly after it received his claim form and, 
based on what it was told, I think it was reasonable  for it to request copies of all 
correspondence issued  to Mr R regarding the takeover  and redundancies.
While I appreciate Mr R believed  his former  employer wouldnt co-operate  with Great Lakes, 
it had to establish he qualified for payment under  the policy.  And regardless of what  
Mr R thought, Great Lakes had spoken to the employer before, it needed further  information  
from him, and I think it was reasonable for this to be pursued. And the employer did provide 
the information Great Lakes required which led to Mr Rs claim being  accepted  and paid.
Great Lakes has acknowledged  that, apart from a call it made to Mr R in April 2018,  he didnt 
hear from it unless he chased  for an update. While  I accept Great  Lakes could have kept 
Mr R updated on the progress of the claim,  I think it was pursuing the outstanding 
information it required and it was reasonable for it to do this. 
Mr R has told us that until his claim was approved he found himself  in a difficult financial 
position, and I understand  this must have been distressing for him. But I cant  hold 
Great Lakes responsible for this as it had to establish Mr R had a valid claim before it could 
be paid. So I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Rs complaint 
against Great Lakes  Insurance SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Ref: DRN28082963Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2808296