K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has mis-calculated the amount he owes  it on 
his credit card statements.
background
Mr T says his November 2018  credit  statement showed that a balance  of £257.70 was due 
to be paid to Capital One in December 2018.  He says he made  a payment for that amount 
but Capital One also took the same  amount  of money by an old direct  debit.  Mr T says he 
asked his bank  to refund that second  payment which it did but says the subsequent 
statements produced  by Capital One are incorrect and dont take into account what  
happened.
Capital One says its not made a mistake  and the statements are accurate. It says the direct  
debit was reversed  which had the effect of Mr T owing it more money.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us and our adjudicator didnt think Capital One had made a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  The adjudicator  looked  at Mr Ts credit  card statements from 
October 2018 and gave  Mr T a detailed explanation about what  happened and why he didnt 
think a mistake had been made. The adjudicator also thought  that as Mr T hadnt cleared his 
balance for two months then Capital One was entitled to charge interest.
Mr T says he can follow most of the adjudicators argument  but says the balance  increase 
was not due to new transactions but money paid in error. He says he cleared  the balance  in 
December 2018  with the payment for £257.70  Mr T also says he was told in March  2019 that 
his balance had to be cleared for two consecutive months to avoid interest  and hes always  
cleared his balance in full every month.  He says Capital One was not out of pocket as a 
result of what happened and he shouldnt be required to pay for Capital Ones accounting 
method. Mr T also says Capital One should  provide a list of items he bought  for £257.70  and 
if not that shows hes not in debt to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr T will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that the adjudicator has given  Mr T a detailed breakdown of his credit card 
spending and payments  since  October 2018. Having looked at that breakdown Im satisfied 
that Capital One hasnt  made a mistake  or acted  unfairly. I should  make clear to Mr T that 
we are not an auditing service and its not our role to check account statements for 
inaccuracies. And Ive not seen any evidence that suggests Capital Ones calculation  or that 
of the adjudicator was incorrect.
I appreciate Mr T says the problem started  with an old direct debit being  taken  by mistake.  
But I can see that the same issue took place in October 2018 and that a payment was made 
by direct debit as well as a payment by Mr T. So I dont think Capital One has made a 
mistake here and Mr T hasnt told me when he told either his bank or Capital One to cancel 
the direct  debit.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr T would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And having done  so Im satisfied those terms and conditions  
Ref: DRN29538492say that to avoid  interest a balance needs to be cleared for two consecutive months. So I 
dont think Capital One made  a mistake here by charging interest  as I dont think  Mr T had 
cleared his balance in that way. I accept  Mr T says he didnt  clear  the balance  as there was 
a potential dispute over what was owed.  But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think there 
was a mistake and that Mr T didnt clear the balance. I also think  that the late payment  fee 
was correctly made when  Mr T didnt  make a payment  on time.
I accept that Mr T will remain  disappointed  by my decision but I think that brings an end to 
what we can do in trying to resolve  this dispute  informally. It is of course open to Mr T to 
consider an alternative  course of action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2953849