K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out alongside a credit card in 1996. Mrs T says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Lloyds doesnt  have any paperwork Mrs T would have completed at the time, which isnt 
surprising given how long ago the sale was. But it has provided a sample copy of the 
application form Mrs T is likely to have completed.
Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want the policy  
and then sign separately for the credit agreement. Ive thought  about  what  I know  about how 
Lloyds sold these types of policies at the time; alongside what  Mrs T has told us. And having  
done this, I think  its unlikely Lloyds would have  added the PPI without Mrs T indicating she 
wanted it. But I can understand  why Mrs T cant remember taking the policy  now.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs T, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs T says she had sick pay benefits from her employer. The PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any employee benefits which would  have meant she could have used her 
benefits to pay for other essential  costs.  So, she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs T has lost out by anything Lloyds might  have done wrong and 
because of that, it doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to her. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN20473522My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2047352