K821x#15complaint
Ms M complained that esure Insurance Limited unfairly settled  a claim under her motor  
insurance policy on a split liability basis.  
background
Ms M had an accident which she said was the other drivers fault. But the other driver 
disputed liability. So esure decided to settle  the claim  on a split liability basis.
Ms M was unhappy about this because there was an independent witness to the accident, 
who supported her account  of what happened. She didnt think that esure had taken  that 
independent evidence into account properly, and so hadnt decided  liability  fairly on the 
evidence. She suspected  that esure had taken the easy option to decide split liability  
because they insured  both her and the other  driver.  She also said that their communication  
with her was poor and misleading. She wanted a review  of liability,  compensation, and for 
esure to take corrective action in future. 
Esure accepted  that their communication  with Ms M had been poor and that theyd 
misinformed her. They also agreed  that they hadnt  escalated her complaint quickly  enough.  
They paid her £100 in compensation for that, but Ms M didnt think  it was enough. But esure  
stood by their decision  on split liability. They felt that it was reasonable on the evidence.  
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Ms complaint be upheld. She thought  that esures 
compensation for their communication issues was reasonable. But she thought  that esure 
hadnt acted reasonably on the evidence they had, and so they should pay Ms M 
compensation, and obtain  a legal opinion on liability. Esure didnt agree. So Ms Ms 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the adjudicator explained  to Ms M, we dont decide who is at fault for causing an 
accident, as this is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply 
to investigate whether  an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their 
policys terms and conditions when  they made their decision as regards who was 
responsible.
Ms M gave esure all her information about the accident, including photos, and the details  of 
an independent witness. Esure did get statements from that witness.  
But Ms M felt that esure took too long to do that, and that they then didnt give the witness  
evidence enough  weight. She felt that they instead tried to discredit  the witness and misled  
her when she challenged that. She also felt that esure had been  obstructive rather  then 
supportive. 
 
But esure said that they had the right under  Ms Ms policy  to decide claims as they saw fit 
and they had  long experience of claims and of deciding if a claim was likely to have 
reasonable prospects of success or not. They said that they hadnt  felt that the independent 
witness evidence was completely reliable. 
Ref: DRN24157482So they felt that it was still one persons word against another, and that they didnt have 
reasonable prospects of successfully defending the other drivers claim in court. 
I agree  that esure do have that right under Ms Ms policy to settle  any claim as they wish and 
without needing  her consent.  This is a common clause in insurance policies and it does 
allow insurers to settle as they see fit if they think they have little chance of success.  And this 
Service doesnt interfere  with insurers decisions of this nature; as long as we think theyre 
reasonable.
I can see that esure did get initial information  from the witness.  But looking at esures  file, I 
dont think they tried very hard to get more information from him earlier.  And I think  that it 
was only after Ms M pressed them on the issue that they instructed agents to take a full 
statement from the witness.
 
Esure appear to have then relied  on the agents view about  the reliability of the witness  
evidence. It seems that the agents  thought that the witness was generally  credible. But 
because he couldnt  confirm for sure whether Ms Ms car was moving or not at the point of 
impact, they felt that his evidence wasnt reliable. But the witness  had been  consistent that 
the other driver cut across  Ms Ms car and clipped hers. And in any event, in focussing  on 
the agents view of the independent witness evidence, esure havent shown us that they 
took into account all the relevant evidence, including that of the other driver, and weighed  it 
all up before deciding  to settle  as they did. This is important because the other drivers 
account of events and the precise location of the accident differed  quite  significantly from the 
account that Ms M and the witness  gave. 
Ive considered that both parties in this incident  were insured with esure, but Im not 
persuaded that this fact affected  the decision esure made. But although esure say that they 
are very experienced at deciding  liability, and didnt need to send the matter for a legal 
opinion, I think that on this occasion it would  have been reasonable for them to do so. I think 
that if they had done so, with all the evidence from all parties,  that could reasonably have led 
to a different  decision on liability. And so I think that esure should now obtain from their legal 
advisers a legal opinion on the disputed liability and whether there  are reasonable prospects 
of successfully proving  that Ms M was not responsible  for the incident.  If that legal advice 
suggests that there are such reasonable prospects, esure should  reopen the claim  and 
revisit their decision on liability.  
As regards  the poor communication, esure have accepted that. Theyve said they gave their 
staff feedback about it. Theyve also paid Ms M compensation of £100,  and I think thats 
reasonable. However, I think that esures  actions in investigating liability  caused Ms M extra 
stress and put her to extra work. So I think that they should compensate her £100 for the 
trouble and upset  they caused her in not properly  investigating the claim. Thats  in addition 
to the £100 theyve already paid.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Obtain a legal opinion on the disputed  liability  and the prospects of successfully 
proving that Ms M was not responsible for the incident, and  
If that legal  opinion suggests  that there are such reasonable  prospects, reopen the 
claim and revisit  their decision on liability, and  
Ref: DRN24157483Pay Ms M £100 in compensation for her distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Esure should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling them that Ms M has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.
If esure  pay interest and consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take 
off income tax from that interest, they should tell Ms M how much  they have taken off. They  
should also give Ms M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2415748