K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about Interactive  Investor Services Limited. He is unhappy  about  the 
time it took to transfer his existing SIPP to an Interactive SIPP.  He feels that as a result of 
the delays some of his investments were  sold later than they should have been and he lost 
out as a result.
background
Mr P began to arrange a SIPP transfer  in 2018. He complained to Interactive  about the lack 
of progress. It responded and accepted that there were delays. It said that it could  have 
been more proactive in progressing the transfer but also pointed  to delays by the transferring 
SIPP provider.
Interactive noted  that an incorrect email address had been  provided to the transferring SIPP. 
It also said that when  it had contacted Mr P on 24 October 2018 to advise him of the stocks  
it couldnt accept  into its SIPP  its normal process  was for the consumer to instruct  the 
transferring SIPP  holder  to make the sales. But this SIPP provider insisted that the 
instruction came from Interactive and it gave  the instruction on 15 November, after some 
deliberation.
At the time of the response to the complaint, the transfer hadnt been  completed.  Interactive 
offered its apologies along with a goodwill payment of £100.  The transfer was finalised in 
January 2019.
Mr P referred the complaint to this service. An adjudicator considered  the complaint and 
decided that it should be upheld. He felt that Interactive should pay redress  which took into 
account the investment losses Mr P may have suffered.
In summary,  the adjudicator felt that Interactive could have identified stocks  it couldnt accept 
sooner than it did and if it had done  so, these  stocks could have been sold sooner and the 
whole transaction  completed more quickly.
The adjudicator suggested how redress should  be calculated. He said, in summary,  that 
Interactive should  calculate the notional value  of the SIPP  assuming that stocks had been  
sold on 16 November and reinvested  from 26 November 2018. The notional SIPP 
investments should  be calculated  over the same  investment period with the same 
proportions invested  from time to time following the same  investment pattern as the actual 
SIPP investment.  Growth  on the investments should be calculated  by applying the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Balanced Total Return Index.
The notional value  of the SIPP should then be compared with the actual  transfer value of the 
SIPP, assuming growth in line with the same  index. If the notional  value were higher than the 
difference would  represent the loss.
Interactive didnt agree. It questioned the use of the index instead  of the actual investments 
made. It also repeated  that the transferring  SIPP had different processes which  contributed 
to the delay and said that asset values were  higher at the end of November  2018  than at the 
beginning.
Ref: DRN20553532The adjudicator responded and explained that he felt use of the index made the calculation  
simpler rather  than more complex.  He invited Interactive to say how it would calculate any 
loss using the actual values, but it didnt respond.
The adjudicator noted that the transferring SIPP did have different processes, but this meant 
Mr P couldnt sell the stock Interactive couldnt  accept  separately from the rest of his 
investments.
The adjudicator noted the comments  about asset  values  at the beginning and end of 
November but pointed out that the index decreased  between 16 November and 
31 December 2018 suggesting there may be some  loss.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and with his reasoning. I uphold this complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  Ive considered the timetable of events. Having done that, Im satisfied  
that Interactive  were  responsible for avoidable  delays  in the transfer.  It could have identified  
that there  were stocks  that it couldnt accept sooner than it did. It knew  what  stocks  were 
held on 21 September but didnt contact Mr P until 24 October  to ask what  he wanted to do. I 
agree with the adjudicator  that this could reasonably have been  achieved within five working 
days, so by 28 September.
When Mr P was contacted, he responded on the same day. Assuming that same response,  I 
agree that Interactive could  have  contacted  the transferring SIPP provider within  five working 
days and so by 5 October to tell it what to do.
Then, based on the actual time taken  to sell the stocks and apply the transfer value to the 
SIPP the stocks  could potentially have been sold by 16 November and the funds applied by 
26 November. This correlates to the actual time taken  of 30 working days and 36 working 
days respectively.
I agree  with the adjudicator that use of an index is a reasonable way to calculate any loss. 
This should be more  straightforward than using the actual investments made as that would 
involve obtaining  a number of different asset valuations  on different dates.
I do note that the transferring SIPP provider may have had some  different, and not typical,  
procedures but there  seems to be good  reason for these differences which  have been  
explained. And Im satisfied that Interactive caused delay by its failures and the redress  
proposed reflects  that delay.
Putting things right
The aim of this redress is to put Mr P in the position  he would have been in if there had been 
no avoidable  delay.  I think this calculation provides for fair redress.
Ref: DRN20553533Interactive must:
1)Determine the proceeds that would have been  available from the sale of the stocks  
using prices that applied on 16 November 2018.
2)To determine a notional value of what the investment would currently be worth had it 
had been applied to the SIPP  on 26 November 2018, Interactive should  assume  it 
was invested over a period of time into investments  that would have achieved a 
return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Balanced  Total Return Index. For 
example the investments made on 9 January 2019 represented 0.52 per cent of the 
transfer value  received, the 11 January 2019  2.07 per cent.  So it should be assumed 
at these points  that the same proportions of the transfer value calculated in (1) were 
invested into this index. This should  continue until the full amount has been invested  
which appears to be on 1 April 2019. The dates used for the investments should take 
account of the date that the transfer  should  have been  applied (26 November 2018) 
and allow for the period between the actual transfer date and the actual investment 
dates. So the initial investment that happened on 9 January 2019 should be assumed 
to have happened on 26 November 2018.  The 11 January 2019 investment 
happened 2 working  days after the transfer, so it should  be assumed that the 
investment into the index happened  on 28 November 2018  etc. The notional 
investments should continue  until the cash fund is exhausted and then it should be 
assumed that the invested fund achieved a return in line with FTSE UK Private  
Investors Balanced  Total Return  Index up to the settlement date. Im satisfied that 
this index is a reasonable  proxy for the return that may have been achieved  on the 
actual investments.
3)The figure calculated  in (2) above  should  then be compared to a valuation based  on 
the actual transfer value of £122,125.49  being  invested in line with the same index 
based on the same investment proportions but using the actual investment dates i.e. 
from 9 January 2019 until the cash fund is exhausted and then using this index up to 
the settlement  date.
If the figure in (2) is greater than (3) then the difference is the loss and this loss should  be 
paid into Mr Ps pension  plan, allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs,  to increase 
the pension plan value by the total amount of the compensation. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance.
If Interactive  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ps pension  plan, it should  be paid 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
Assuming Mr P will be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement the notional  allowance  should 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
he would  have been able to take a tax free lump  sum. So, the notional allowance  should  be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
Alternatively if the value in (3) is greater  than (2) no loss has been  suffered and no 
compensation would be payable.
Ref: DRN20553534my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Interactive Investor Services  Limited. It must calculate  and pay 
redress as set out above.
I understand that the goodwill payment of £100 has already been paid. If not, this should be 
paid in addition.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2055353