K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a £2,500 personal  loan in 2004. Miss M says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold 
the PPI policy  with her loan because it was implied  she had to buy it in order to get the loan 
approved.
background
Nationwide sold Miss M a single premium  PPI policy alongside a 24 month  loan. The policy  
offered protection against Miss M losing her job or being unable to work.   It cost £191 and 
Miss M had to pay the full cost of the PPI up front in one single premium. So she also 
borrowed the money to pay for the PPI from Nationwide. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ms complaint and recommended  we shouldnt  
uphold it. Miss M disagreed with this and asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt  Miss Ms views about the sale are 
genuinely held.  However, these events  obviously took place a long time ago and weve 
seen a number  of very similar cases from this time period. And have looked very carefully  
at Nationwides  processes from 2004, we now understand the type of paperwork and 
information consumers  were normally given.
We know, for example,  that these types of loan were  often discussed over the phone or at 
a branch. This was not an internet  sale as Miss M recalls. A credit  agreement was then 
produced, based  on that discussion and sent out or given  to the consumer to check  and 
sign and then return to Nationwide. 
Nationwides computerised records show this was a telephone sale.  I was sent Miss Ms 
original agreement which describes the PPI as Optional  Credit  Insurance. In my view this 
is prominently displayed, so I think shed  have been  able to understand the PPI wasnt  
something she needed to buy if she didnt want to. I therefore think she consented to it.
Nationwides procedures  at the time were generally  to tell consumers about  PPI and not to 
advise them during the sale. It was therefore  the consumers own decision about whether 
they wanted PPI with their loan. Nationwide still needed to give Miss M enough  information  
so she could make an informed decision about whether or not to buy the PPI cover.  
Theres no recording of the call to listen to, but as it was 15 years ago that isnt unusual. So I 
cant say that Miss M was given all the information  she shouldve  been given. But I note the 
amount (including  interest) of both the loan and PPI part of the loan were  set out on the 
agreement she signed, as was the amount shed have  to pay each month. So I think  the 
costs wouldve been clear enough for her. 
Ref: DRN25636952Even if I accept that Nationwide  could have set things out more  clearly for her, I still dont 
think this would have  mattered to whether or not she wouldve still bought the policy. I say 
this because Miss M was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that shed have been caught by 
any of the major policy exclusions  we tended  to see. I agree  she would have had some 
sickness protection with her job, but this doesnt  necessarily mean the policy  wasnt  of use.
In the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness,  the policy could have met her 
repayments until the loan was repaid. And if shed become unemployed, she could have 
claimed for up to 12 months. Both the loan - and the PPI part of the loan - ran for the same 
length of time and if shed cashed in early, she would have received a proportionate refund.  
So I think all these things show the PPI was of use to her. 
I obviously cant say why Miss M agreed to have PPI, but I think the evidence shows  she 
probably discussed this cover with Nationwide. I think the way the cover  was then described 
for her and how the costs were disclosed wouldve allowed her to see she had options and 
what she was required to pay. 
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint or direct  Nationwide  
Building Society to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2563695