K821x#15complaint
Miss A has complained  Indigo  Michael Limited, trading as SafetyNet Credit,  held her liable 
for a loan she never applied for. This resulted in a default being placed on her credit record  
and increased  her costs  when she went to re-mortgage.
background
In 2015 Miss As new debit card was intercepted.  This was used to get her account details. 
Three loans were applied  for in her name  and credited to her bank account.  On 12 October 
2015 a fraudster then transferred £20 out of Miss As account  47 times. This was done using 
another banks  mobile payment service. By this stage Miss As bank had already cancelled 
Miss As debit card. Within a short period  they also refunded £958.50  for the payments made 
without her authority.
Miss A got in touch with the loan companies involved.  Two immediately accepted  shed not 
applied for these but SafetyNet Credit  didnt. Over the next three years Miss A tried at 
various times to contact  SafetyNet  Credit and sort things out. They continued to believe 
shed applied for this loan.  In 2016  a default was applied to her credit  record  although Miss A 
didnt ever receive a notice to inform her of this.
During this period Miss A also tried to re-mortgage  her properties which proved difficult. She 
felt the new rates she was paying  were  higher  than those  shed  paid previously.
In 2018 after getting nowhere,  Miss A brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
After our investigation, SafetyNet Credit agreed theyd remove the default from Miss As 
record and accepted the application was probably made fraudulently.  Miss A paid £350 to 
SafetyNet Credit on 20 September 2019. SafetyNet Credit  put in place arrangements to 
have the default removed.
Miss A wanted us to consider the additional  costs shed had to meet because of the default. 
This included solicitors costs and broker fees,  as well as early  repayment charges and other 
costs. Our investigator reviewed these in detail and asked  SafetyNet Credit to repay most of 
these to Miss A, except the solicitors  costs. She also looked at the overall impact this had 
had on Miss A and asked  SafetyNet  Credit to give her £600 in compensation.
Miss A didnt believe this was enough  compensation and was concerned  her solicitors costs 
werent being met. SafetyNet  Credit felt they couldnt be sure it was fraud. It seemed to them 
Miss A was unwilling to repay £350 which shed  had since  October  2015  and they were  
unwilling to meet other costs.
Miss As complaint has been referred  to an ombudsman for decision. Her solicitor  has also 
made further comments to the service.
I completed a provisional decision on 16 April 2020.  Like our investigator I believed  Miss A 
hadnt applied  for the loan. I felt thered been quite a delay in SafetyNet Credit taking 
Miss As concerns seriously so I increased  the compensation payable.
Miss A accepted  this conclusion. SafetyNet Credit, however, made a number of comments. 
These included:
Ref: DRN29662102They disputed Miss A had ever contacted  them in 2015 when the loan was first 
granted. Their  evidence showed  she only contacted them in 2016 after she had 
received the default  notice;
They disputed my belief they were  wrong  in placing a default  on Miss As record as 
theyd been unaware  of any issue prior to that time;
A timeline of their contact with Miss A;
Their view that as an experienced professional Miss A would have realised  
immediately the impact of a default notice on her record  and she should have taken 
steps to mitigate  the impact earlier;
They disputed that the default  notice alone would have impacted Miss As ability  to 
re-mortgage and it may well be due to the amount of credit  accounts she had open  in 
her name; and
Re-opening issues around  how someone  could have taken our a fraudulent  loan in 
Miss As name when their checking procedures required  a number of steps to had 
been successfully  met 
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
When I completed my provisional decision I did this after reviewing our investigators  own 
detailed view of 29 November 2019.  This included  a clear timeline of what  had happened.  
Ive now reviewed this again  following SafetyNet Credits response to my provisional 
decision. I believe everything was properly covered in the view so I dont  feel the need to 
repeat what was said. I should  add, of course,  that I did review all the information and the 
evidence behind it.
SafetyNet Credit referred  to a number  of issues in their response  to the provisional decision. 
I will refer to these as relevant throughout this decision.
I have covered all the main aspects to this complaint in separate  sections below.
fraudulent loan application
Firstly its worth repeating Miss A was a victim  of fraud. Im in no doubt about this. Her bank 
immediately treated her as a fraud victim and sorted things out. As did two other loan 
companies. Ive looked at all the evidence around this and believe it was clear  from 2015 
that Miss As account had been misused. Someone unknown  to her had applied  for funds 
through loans  and then made  a large number of transfers out of her account.
SafetyNet Credit has told us someone would have needed Miss As online banking details as 
well as other information about her to make a fraudulent application. I havent reviewed in 
detail how someone  was able to access Miss As bank account and authorise transactions in 
her name. That isnt the subject of this complaint. But in my experience of disputed 
Ref: DRN29662103transactions, it is not as unusual as SafetyNet Credit  claims that all this information is 
compromised.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence  to show Miss A ever made the loan application. SafetyNet 
Credit therefore has no contractual agreement with her. There was no legal basis  for them to 
have lodged a default on her credit  record. SafetyNet Credit has provided us with no 
evidence to show they carried out an investigation  into Miss As claim about this loan. In 
2016 she contacted them to say this was a fraudulent  loan application after a default was 
applied to her credit  record.
Theres been an implication that Miss A was unwilling  to reimburse  SafetyNet Credit  the 
original loan amount  (which was part of what her own bank reimbursed to her). I dont think  
this was the case. As SafetyNet Credit never accepted the loan was fraudulent, shed have 
been paying them £350 towards what they saw as a debt but which Miss A was adamant 
wasnt. She couldnt get them to remove the default  and it was practically the only limited 
leverage open to her. As soon as it was clear the default was going to be removed, Miss A 
immediately called SafetyNet Credit  to reimburse  them. This was successfully completed  on 
20 September 2019.
compensation
There are two aspects to the compensation payable. Firstly  I believe SafetyNet Credit  were 
in the wrong putting a default  on Miss As credit record as there was no contractual  
relationship with her. My role, however,  is not to punish businesses  or decide whether they 
have breached regulations. Thats for the regulator in the relevant field; in this case the 
Information Commissioners Office.  I review the impact  on the individual  and what 
compensation should be payable taking that into account.
I agree  with SafetyNet Credit that at the time they placed the default on Miss As record  they 
may well not have known  the loan had been  taken out fraudulently. But they were aware of 
this when Miss A contacted them in April 2016.
The default  was on Miss As record from April 2016  until its removal  in late 2019. During this 
period she was managing her different properties  and trying to minimise costs where she 
could. She quickly found  out how difficult this was with a default on her record. She was also 
looking to buy a car but found herself rejected  for finance after companies searched  her 
credit record. Im not surprised by this.
Our investigator wondered whether Miss A had done enough to mitigate the impact of what  
happened. It was clear  she hadnt come to our service until quite late. This is true. But when 
she first contacted SafetyNet Credit, she was never  given a final response.  This would have 
made it clear  she could bring a complaint to us. SafetyNet  Credit  did not dispute this.
It also seems  clear  local support advice  Miss A sought didnt inform her of this option  either. 
Contrary to what SafetyNet Credit believes, it is completely possible that experienced 
professionals are caught unawares at moments like this. In any case  as I point  out below, 
Miss A took a number of steps to mitigate what had happened.
Ive looked at what other steps she took around  the time she first found out about the loans. 
She contacted credit  reference agencies and took out protective registration so any future 
lenders would be aware of what had happened. She also contacted  all the lenders involved 
Ref: DRN29662104as well as the police. I dont think she can be accused of not taking what  had happened 
seriously and not trying  to sort things out.
SafetyNet Credit say Miss A didnt  get in touch  with them for the first time until April 2016. 
However I note they have  not provided us with their full contact records. That said I dont 
dispute what they say. It is, of course, the impact of what happened from April 2016  onwards 
on Miss A that I am considering.  
It was only in 2017 as Miss A was re-mortgaging that she realised the importance of what 
had happened  and she was left with a default  she couldnt shift. It seems  to me there were 
substantial impacts on Miss A throughout the period the default was on her record.
Our investigator assessed £600 to be a fair figure. I believe this to be too low. Im going  to 
increase this to £1,500. Our website gives examples of what compensation could look like in 
cases like this  where  we judge there to have  been a substantial  impact. I think  somewhere 
in the range between the bottom (£500) and top (£2,500) of this category seems fair and 
reasonable.
refund of costs
In our investigators view of 29 November 2019 she ran through  all the individual  costs 
Miss A had asked us to consider. Ive reviewed those in detail along with the reasoning. She 
considered the costs  Miss A had referred  to her in an email of 15 October 2019. Ive also 
taken into account  Miss As solicitors email of 10 March  2020 providing us with further 
comments. Ive also considered SafetyNet  Credits  detailed submission to us on 29 May 
2020.
Like our investigator,  I wont be asking  SafetyNet  Credit to refund Miss As solicitors costs.  
Our service is informal and nobody is required to use solicitors  to engage with us. Individuals  
can and do take their own decisions about when  to use solicitors to tackle issues  when they 
think they have  no other  options to manage their concerns. But this is not a cost wed 
normally refund. I see no reason to take a different approach here. 
However our investigator highlighted other  costs which she felt were directly attributable to 
the issues arising from Miss As defaulted credit record.  I agree with her assessment. 
I have considered SafetyNet Credits argument there could have been other factors  involved. 
Thats possible but I think the overriding aspect that would have impacted her at this time 
would have been the default placed  on her record by SafetyNet Credit for a loan she didnt 
apply for. Its difficult to ignore Miss As own brokers analysis that the default  was the reason 
behind the increased costs Miss A had to pay. These included:
brokers fee of £250 paid on 4 April 2019  (as evidenced by her bank statement);
costs  associated with having a new lender: their additional search  fee of £245 along 
with landlords  fees of £84, tenancy check of £60, landlords notice of £15 and bank 
charges of £42; and
early repayment charge of £3,194.58 and the administrative fee to redeem the 
mortgage of £90;
These total £3,980.58. As these are out of pocket costs, its also fair to ask SafetyNet Credit 
to add 8% simple interest  a year to those costs. Miss A has provided  us with evidence  to 
Ref: DRN29662105show most of these  except the brokers fee  were paid on completion  of her mortgage by 
being deducted from the payment made to her. This was on 24 June 2019.
Our investigator didnt  include  the cost of interest  prior to redemption as she felt Miss A 
would always have  had to repay  additional interest whenever she chose  to redeem the 
mortgage. I agree with our investigators  reasoning here and see no need  to depart from her 
conclusions.
She also didnt consider  higher interest rates that Miss A may have ended  up paying  being 
directly attributable. I agree. Miss A most likely  would always have been paying higher 
interest rates as some  of the properties  are buy-to-let.
Our investigator also asked SafetyNet Credit  to repay £350  to Miss A. This was the amount 
of the original loans.  Obviously  this cant be repaid to Miss A and all parties  accept this. 
Miss A repaid the original  amount in September 2019 which  was the right thing to do.
I have to decide this case  on the balance of probabilities, and considering the case  overall 
and on balance I have  decided the facts  support  the outcome as outlined  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Indigo  Michael  Limited, trading as 
SafetyNet Credit, to:
ensure all data related  to these credit agreements are removed from Miss As credit  
record (this should have been completed  in 2019);
pay Miss A £1,500  compensation for the trouble caused;
refund  Miss A £250 for the cost of her brokers fee;
add 8% simple interest  to that amount from 4 April 2019 until the date of settlement;
refund  Miss A £3,730.58 for other costs as detailed above; and
add 8% simple interest  to that amount from 24 June 2019 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2966210