K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs solicitor complains on her behalf about the amount shes paid over the years  for her 
home insurance with St Andrews Insurance Plc.
background
Mrs Rs insurance  policy  with St Andrews started  in 2011. It initially  cost £522 for the year 
and covered buildings and contents.  The next year, 2012, Mrs Rs insurance cost £602. 
In 2016, the property became unoccupied, so an additional premium  was charged taking the 
total premium paid that year to £832.  
In 2017, the renewal quote was for £537  for unoccupied buildings  insurance only.  At this 
point Mrs Rs solicitors  found insurance  for much less elsewhere and cancelled  the policy. 
They complained that Lloyds hadnt acted in Mrs Rs best interests  and had instead kept her 
on an expensive policy.
St Andrews  said the premiums had been calculated  correctly  based on the cover required.  
But due to the specific circumstances of the case it paid Mrs R a total of £1,300  
compensation.
Mrs Rs solicitors felt this was insufficient  and requested £2,174  plus reasonable 
professional costs, based on what  they felt wouldve been  a reasonable premium of £301 
per year. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs Rs solicitors disagreed,  so Ive been asked 
to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mrs R 
fairly throughout the period she held her insurance policy.
If I find that St Andrews  hasnt treated Mrs R fairly, I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what St Andrews has offered is fair.
When Mrs R took out her policy in 2011, it cost £522  for the year.  The insurance cost £602  
upon renewal  in 2012. The premiums  increased in 2013 and 2014  but fell slightly  in 2015. I 
dont think the amounts  paid in 2016 and 2017 are directly  comparable to the earlier years,  
because there had been a fundamental change in what was being  insured. 
In 2016, the property became unoccupied, and St Andrews changed its view of the risk 
because of this. It viewed the unoccupied  property as a higher risk than an occupied one 
and increased  the cost of Mrs Rs policy to reflect this. In 2017,  the property remained 
unoccupied and the insurance only covered the buildings, which  meant the overall  price  
decreased significantly, but that any contents in the property were no longer insured.
Ref: DRN23892142I understand there was an introductory discount in 2011. This isnt uncommon  and policies 
may well initially be priced  lower to attract new customers. I dont  think its unfair for an 
insurer to seek to recoup  that cost over the subsequent years.
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  why the price will change. But where an insurer 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals 
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost.
In this case, I think that by 2015  St Andrews shouldve known Mrs R wasnt  engaging with 
the renewals process. But that year the price decreased slightly, so Mrs R wasnt  taken  
advantage of then. And I dont think the later years premiums are comparable as mentioned 
above. So, I have  no reason to think that St Andrews treated Mrs R unfairly  when setting the 
price of her policy.
Mrs Rs solicitors have  found insurance  much  cheaper elsewhere, which prompted them  to 
cancel the policy and complain on Mrs Rs behalf.  I fully understand their view on this, but 
insurers often include discounts  in order to obtain new customers.  That means that a new 
customer will often  be paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy.  So, 
Im not surprised that the quotes they found were cheaper. 
Im also mindful that the price they were quoted in 2017 wouldnt necessarily reflect the sort 
of prices Mrs R couldve  found over the years from 2011 onwards. Each insurer will view and 
price risk differently, which can lead to significant differences in price for insuring the same 
property. So, just because  a price is higher, it doesnt necessarily mean an insurer has acted 
unfairly.
In addition to this, insurance  policies are not all the same  they have different levels of 
cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions  that can affect the price  charged. Each 
insurers costs may also vary depending  on many things. So, just because the policy  with St 
Andrews cost a lot more than Mrs Rs new policy with another  insurer   that doesnt  mean  
the amount charged was unfair.
There are now rules  (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers  should,  in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve  had their policy  for a number 
of years.  These rules didnt exist earlier, so I dont think St Andrews did anything wrong by 
not suggesting to Mrs R that she might want to shop around in previous  years.  
I note that St Andrews  has paid some compensation to Mrs R. In light of my findings,  I see 
no reason to tell St Andrews to do anything  further.  
Ref: DRN23892143my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2389214