K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance,  (PPI),  policy.
Its been agreed that Financial Insurance Company Limited, (FICL), should accept
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred  to FICL throughout my decision, 
although it didnt  actually sell the PPI.
background
The circumstances leading to the Mr Bs complaint, together with my initial findings, were  set
out in my provisional  decision dated  11 June 2019, a copy of which is attached.
Neither Mr B nor FICL responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection  insurance on
our website. Ive followed  this in Mr Bs case.
As neither party made any further comments or sent us any new information about the
complaint since it was issued, I see no reason to vary my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision an above my decision is that I do not 
uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a payment  protection insurance, (PPI),  policy.
Its been  agreed that Financial Insurance Company Limited, (FICL), should accept
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred to FICL throughout  my decision,  although  it didnt  
actually sell the PPI.
background
Mr B took out a store card in 1999. In 2001 he took out PPI during a phone conversation.
Ref: DRN27553752Our adjudicator felt that the complaint should be upheld  because of the pre-existing medical  condition 
Mr B had at the time the PPI was sold to him.
FICL didnt agree with our adjudicators view,  so the matter  has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this in making my decision in Mr Bs case.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint.  I explain why below.
Mr B says that if he opted for PPI then that was accidental. He says that there was no discussion to 
see if it would have been of benefit to him. I dont know what was said about PPI, if anything, when  he 
took out the card, or what  was discussed on the later phone call  theres  no call recording available. 
However I think that Mr P knew that the insurance was optional and that he chose to take it out. I say 
this because Ive seen his signed store card application. The form has a section in it dealing with PPI 
which Mr B was required  to sign if he wanted the insurance.  I can see that he didnt sign that section. 
So Im satisfied that Mr B knew that he could  get the store card without taking out the policy  as 
indeed he did. I dont know why Mr B changed his mind,  but  FICLs records  say the PPI was added  to 
his account following a telemarketing  call, well after the account  had been opened. I think thats likely 
to be right, so I conclude that he probably agreed to take it during a phone  call which took place about  
a year later,  even if, understandably, he doesnt recall that now.
I dont think FICL advised Mr B to take out the PPI, so it didnt have to check whether it was suitable 
for him. (It was up to Mr B himself to decide  whether he wanted it based on his circumstances at the 
time.) But FICL did have to give Mr B clear,  fair and not mis-leading information about the policy so 
that he could make a fully informed decision. Knowing  what I do about his circumstances  at the time 
and the likely  terms and conditions  of the PPI, I find that:
Mr B was eligible for the policy;
Mr B has told us that he was entitled to sick pay from his employer. But that he had no other 
insurance or savings to help him meet  his monthly store  card payments had he been off work. 
Following a successful  claim the insurance  would  have  paid 15% of Mr Bs store card balance  
each month had he been unable  to work because of accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. These payments would  have been made until hed paid off his balance or until 
hed returned  to work,  if earlier, on top of any sick pay or redundancy payment he got and could  
have lasted longer than his guaranteed sick pay.. This would have left Mr Bs sick or redundancy  
pay available to meet his other expenses while  he wasnt  working. So I think  that the PPI could 
have been of use to him;
From what weve  been told by FICL, the likely cost of the PPI was no more  than £1 a month for 
each £100 outstanding on Mr Bs store card account. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that these 
premiums were unaffordable for him. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, Mr B could have 
cancelled the policy at any time without further cost if he later found that he couldnt  afford  it or no 
longer wanted it;
The PPI wouldnt  have paid out had Mr B been off work because  of a medical  condition of which 
he was aware in the 12 months before the policy  started. I think this might have mattered  to Mr B 
because he had been diagnosed with a medical condition as a child which  was on-going at the 
time of the sale. I dont know what, if anything, FICL  told Mr B about this exclusion. But, in any 
event, Mr B says that he has never had to take time off work because of this condition  and that it 
is controlled by medication. So I dont  think that, at the time the policy  was sold to him, Mr B 
Ref: DRN27553753would have thought that he would be likely to make a claim on the policy because of the 
condition. So on balance I dont conclude  that clearer information about the exclusion would have 
changed Mr Bs mind  and put him off taking  the insurance;
Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the policys other main limitations and restrictions - such  as those 
affecting someone who was self-employed.
So in my view the PPI could have been helpful for Mr B. It may be that FICL didnt  give Mr B all the 
details about the policy that it should have done. But from what  Ive set out above I dont think that Mr 
B would have made a different decision  and decided not to take the PPI had he been given clearer  
information. So based on what Ive read and been told up to now I find that he hasnt lost out because 
of anything that FICL may have done wrong  during  the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require 
FICL to put right.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any other information or comments that I get from Mr B or Financial Insurance  Company  
Limited, for the reasons Ive given my decision will be that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2755375