K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are complaining about the compensation they are being offered by Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds)  for the mis-sale  of payment protection insurance (PPI) sold with their 
mortgage borrowings  (account number ending  3683).
background
Since 2010 Mr and Mrs W have complained to Lloyds several times they had been mis-sold 
PPI. Lloyds offered  to compensate Mr and Mrs W but they didn't  accept  the offers made.  
Mr and Mrs W contacted Lloyds again  in 2017. 
In response, Lloyds  confirmed the complaint had been upheld. But Mr and Mrs W had made 
several successful claims totalling £23,569.50. The cost of the policy, including interest was 
£14,510.23. As the claims significantly exceeded the amount Mr and Mrs W paid for the 
policy, Lloyds said they werent due any compensation. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and agreed that Lloyds didn't need  to do 
anything further.  
In their reply, Mr and Mrs W say they complained about the policy being mis-sold as well as 
the high cost of the policy. And after reviewing  the claims that had been paid they asked for 
further evidence  from Lloyds as they disputed the benefits paid and didn't recall  any claims 
being denied.  
Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy  about  the service  they have received from Lloyds 
throughout the complaint  process.
Mr and Mrs W said they now wanted to keep the policy. Their  circumstances had changed 
and they thought the policy may be of benefit to them. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
complaint about  the mis-sale and the cost of the policy 
Lloyds has already upheld Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, so I wont be looking at how the policy  
was sold to them. But I will be considering  whether  what Lloyds has proposed to do with the 
compensation is fair. 
Mr and Mrs W have  referred to the high level of commission  and profit  share Lloyds may 
have received on the premiums they paid for the policy.  This refers to the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  and the rules and guidance made by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission. Where  
certain dates were applicable,  businesses had to repay consumers any commission  a 
business received  that was above  50% of the premium on the policy, and that had not been 
disclosed to the consumer at the time of the sale. 
Ref: DRN29632892In its case handling  guidance and rules,  the FCA referred to a two-step approach.  
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
The rules  say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission  (and profit  share)  
charged if it upheld  the consumers  complaint that PPI had been  mis-sold (step  1). In other 
words, if a business finds a consumer  wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI they did and offers  to 
put things right on that basis,  it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about  
commission (step 2). This is what has happened for Mr and Mrs Ws sale.
So Lloyds has effectively  already refunded this amount  if any was due  albeit being  set off 
against the benefit Mr and Mrs W received from the policy. So I wont  be looking further at 
the cost of the policy and whether it is affected by the Plevin judgment.  
the claims paid and denied
Mr and Mrs W arent satisfied with the evidence Lloyds has been  able to provide about the 
claims. They want further evidence about  the amount  of sums paid out for the successful  
claims and any denied  claims as they say this didn't happen. 
The evidence Lloyds  has provided  has been  taken from the insurer. Im satisfied it is 
reasonable to rely upon this. Lloyds wont have anything more. If Mr and Mrs W arent happy 
with the claims paid or denied, then this should be taken up with the insurer  directly. 
is the offer fair
If we find that a business has mis-sold  a policy we expect it to  as far as is possible  put 
the policy holder  in the financial position they should be in but for the PPI. This would include 
a refund of what they paid toward  the policy and any associated  interest  or costs. Id also 
expect a business to add 8% per year simple  interest to compensate for the time the policy  
holder had been out of pocket. Im satisfied Lloyds has worked these amounts out in the way 
Id expect.
But crucially,  and very relevant to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, a business can deduct  what  a 
consumer received in the event of a successful claim. And according  to the evidence 
provided by the policy insurer,  Mr and Mr W did make several successful claims. And the 
payments made to Mr and Mrs W are considerably  more than what  the policy cost them. So 
Im satisfied they arent owed anything further. 
Put simply, it wouldnt be fair for Mr and Mrs W to have received the benefit  of the claims 
and then also receive back the money they paid in premiums. And because Mr and Mrs Ws 
claims totalled far more  than their PPI compensation, there is nothing further for Lloyds to 
do. 
Ref: DRN29632893Mr and Mrs W have  said theyre not satisfied the calculations  have used  the correct  start 
date of the policy. But Ive seen screen shots  that show the start date  1 September  2003  
and can confirm the calculations for compensation start on 16 October 2003 which would 
have been when the first premium was paid.
Mr and Mrs W have  also said they want a calculation on the interest refunded.  As explained 
above, I would expect this to be at a rate of 8% simple  and this is what Lloyds has done. So 
Im satisfied that is correctly calculated.
I hope I have been  able to explain our approach to compensation for mis-sold PPI. And why 
I think it was fair for Lloyds to deduct  the claim amounts from the compensation 
Mr and Mrs W were due to receive. 
Mr and Mrs W arent happy  with how they have  been  treated by Lloyds throughout the 
complaint process.  I do appreciate that bringing a complaint can sometimes  be difficult. And 
Im aware Mr and Mrs W had to contact Lloyds several times after they brought their 
complaint again  in 2017, and were  mis-informed  that a new complaint about  the mis-sale  
was to set up. This must have been  frustrating  for them. 
But I can see that Lloyds  has addressed  the mis-sale complaint several times and made 
offers since  Mr and Mrs W first complained in 2009. So even if there has been service issues 
in dealing with the complaint, I have borne in mind  that it has been complex. Overall, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds has made meaningful  attempts to resolve  the complaint over several 
years and has acted in good  faith. So, in the particular  circumstances  of this complaint I 
wont be making any award for this. 
When making a mis-sale  complaint we would usually expect for the PPI policy to be 
cancelled. However,  Mr and Mrs W have told us they now intend to keep  the policy. That is 
for them to decide.  Mr and Mrs W should  make  sure they are satisfied with the policy if they 
wish to keep it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
It is fair for Lloyds Bank PLC to deduct the claim amounts from Mr and Mrs Ws 
compensation, so they arent  owed  any compensation. And Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2963289