K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  they were given unsuitable investment advice by an appointed 
representative of Network Direct Limited.  They say the recommended funds were too UK-
focused, leaving them exposed  to substantial currency risk, since  they lived abroad.  
background
In October  2015, Mr and Mrs P sought advice from an appointed representative of 
Network Direct Limited (NDL) on how to invest £100,000 of savings. They were advised to 
invest in an offshore investment bond within a bare trust. 75% of the money was invested  in 
the PAC Sterling With-Profits Fund  and 25% in the M&G Property  Fund. 
The fact find reported  that Mr and Mrs P were retired and lived in Spain, where they owned a 
property. It said they wanted  to invest  in the UK, as they didnt have  confidence in the 
Spanish system. Their primary objective was income and their attitude to risk was 
balanced . 
In February 2018,  Mr and Mrs P complained. They  said the 2015 advice was unsuitable,  for 
a number of reasons, including undue exposure to currency risk. They also said the adviser  
hadnt warned  them  they were unlikely to meet  their income goals or told them about other 
options available 
NDL didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr and Mrs P wanted to invest  in the UK and have 
income paid in sterling. They  were also warned about exchange rate risk and wanted  
protection from stockmarket volatility. 
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this service. The trustees of the bare trust also 
joined in the complaint. On 8 February,  I provisionally upheld it and said,  in summary:
The fact find showed that Mr and Mrs Ps priority  was generating an income,  which 
they needed to live on. 
The adviser was fully aware  of Mr and Mrs Ps country of residence.  So I thought he 
should have made them aware of the dangers  of having income in one currency and 
expenditure in another. 
I didnt think that a generic warning on a covering  letter that changes in exchange 
rates between currencies may cause the value of your investment and the level of 
income to risk and fall was sufficient  to warn Mr and Mrs P of the risks to which  they 
were being exposed.
Despite their desire for  income, the adviser  recommended putting 75% of 
Mr and Mrs Ps funds  into a non-income producing fund.
I thought there were  two principal concerns over this funds suitability  for 
Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and objectives   that it was denominated in sterling 
and that it wasnt  designed to pay income,  which they were specifically looking for. 
I also didnt think putting the other 25% of Mr and Mrs Ps portfolio into one UK 
property fund was suitable. I thought it concentrated their risk too much in one class  
of assets, particularly given that the PAC fund also invested in property. Property  as 
an asset class  was highly cyclical and prone to liquidity risk. 
With suitable advice,  I concluded that Mr and Mrs P would have invested differently. 
I provisionally directed  NDL to pay compensation  based  on converting the amount 
invested in the offshore bond  into Euros. Its actual performance should then be 
compared with a benchmark.  
Ref: DRN21056872Mr and Mrs P replied  to say that they agreed  in principle with my decision. But they provided 
some more information about changes in their circumstances  since  their original complaint. 
They asked that this be taken into account  when deciding on fair compensation.  
On 23 July 2018, theyd surrendered the bond and shut down the bare trust. Theyd 
done this because of the excessive level of charges in the bond and limited  supply of 
suitable funds.  
Theyd then reinvested the proceeds on an execution only basis  in a spread of funds 
investing in European  bonds,  equity and property  and some  global funds.  
They were now paying  net fees of less than 1%.  
In the light of the above, they said that 23 July should be the end date in the 
compensation calculation. 
They asked that NDL refund all the fees theyd paid for the initial  advice, in view of 
the fact that theyd  now taken on personal responsibility for their investments. 
They provided details  of the income  theyd taken from the bond in its life.
NDL also replied and made the following points:
The clients had lived in Spain for many years and NDL believed theyd fully 
understood exchange rates and the risks involved. The warning  in the risks section of 
the suitability letter reiterated this and took into account their significant experience.  
The fact find also recorded that risk exchange  rates can change  and reduce the 
income you receive. The actual exchange rate at that time was also documented.
The bond was non-income producing but had the advantage of enabling income to 
be paid via a return of capital. NDL argued  this avoided increasing their exposure to 
tax, helping to offset  the exchange  rate deficit.  
Risk modelling software was used  to identify Mr and Mrs Ps risk appetite.  The 
recommended portfolio  was in line with the softwares assessment of balanced. 
Fixed  interest or lower volatility funds wouldnt have given Mr and Mrs P the 
protection theyd  wanted from the ups and downs  of the market. That left only cash-
based options, where interest rates would have been low. These low interest  rates 
were what  Mr and Mrs P were trying to get away from.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
mind about  upholding the complaint. I will, however, make some adjustments  to the 
compensation calculation. 
NDL has argued that Mr and Mrs P had lived in Spain for some time and therefore  fully 
understood exchange rate risk. But I think theres a difference between an awareness of 
exchange rates in terms of their everyday life and thinking through the implications for their 
future investments. And I think this is where the adviser  had a role. 
Mr and Mrs P had sought expert advice, because they felt they needed it. I think this should 
have encompassed  a discussion  of the main  risks and the options for mitigating those risks.  
Exchange rate risk was one of the main  risks. And I dont think that this kind of discussion 
took place. I say this partly because its not documented in the suitability letter  and partly  
because I think that, had it occurred, its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P would  have 
chosen to do something  different. 
Ref: DRN21056873I accept that the actual  exchange rate at the time was recorded, as were a couple of 
warnings  but these  are in my view more of the generic variety. They  dont persuade me 
that the adviser raised the risk of income  in one currency and expenditure in another  had 
taken place. 
I also accept that Mr P expressed a dislike of the Spanish system. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, the context of this suggests he had in mind the Spanish banking  
system. I havent seen  any evidence  that he was unwilling to consider any investments in 
Euros.  
I think that if an adequate discussion of exchange rate risk in their particular circumstances 
had taken place,  Mr and Mrs P would have chosen to do something different with their 
investment pot.  
NDL has pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ps attitude to risk was assessed using risk modelling 
software. The assessment of balanced  arising from this isnt in dispute. But this doesnt 
mean the advice  was suitable. 
Mr and Mrs Ps prime requirement  was for income. And one of the points in their original 
complaint was that they werent  told that their income goals were highly unlikely to be 
achieved. NDLs appointed representative  recommended an offshore bond, which  enabled 
withdrawals of up to 5% to be made each year, with deferred income tax. NDL say this 
structure had advantages  for Mr and Mrs P. But I dont think that tax was an issue  for them.  I 
think that income was more important. And I dont  think  the advice to put 75% of their money  
in a non-income  bearing fund was suitable for this need.  
NDL also argues that Mr and Mrs P wanted to avoid the ups and downs of stockmarkets.  
The PAC fund offered  some smoothing  of this volatility,  as a with-profits  fund. When  
presented to them as a benefit, I think its possible that Mr and Mrs P did like the idea of this. 
But that doesnt mean that other options, and the pros and cons  thereof, were  adequately 
considered. 
Overall, I remain of the view that the portfolio recommended by NDLs appointed 
representative was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P. I think there was too much exposure to 
property, particularly UK property, leaving Mr and Mrs P entirely reliant on this sector  to meet 
their income needs. I also think that investing  in sterling and paying  income  in sterling  wasnt 
suitable for them, since all their expenditure was going to be in Euros.  
fair compensation
In deciding what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr and Mrs P as close  as I 
can to the position they would probably now be in if they hadnt been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mr and Mrs P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what 
they would  have done. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, 
given Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and objectives  when they invested. 
I think that suitable advice would have  been  to invest  in funds with a base currency  of Euros  
- and which paid income in Euros - at the outset. I think, broadly speaking,  a European 
balanced investor would expect the same return as a UK based one. So Im going  to use a 
Ref: DRN21056874suitable UK portfolio as a benchmark, but converted  into Euros  at the prevailing exchange 
rates. Each income payment should  also be converted to Euros  on the date of its payment.  
Technically, what happened to Mr and Mrs Ps money was that it was placed into a trust, 
which then invested  in an offshore bond. But the trust has since been  unwound,  so cant  
receive the compensation. Any compensation payment produced by the calculation should 
therefore be paid to Mr and Mrs P. 
I consider that the discovery  that the advisers  recommendations  had left them  vulnerable to 
currency risk has been distressing for Mr and Mrs P. I am awarding them an additional £500 
for the distress this has caused.
Mr and Mrs P feel that the fees they paid for the advice should  be refunded, given that Ive 
found the advice unsuitable.  These  fees included £2,500 upfront and ongoing commission of 
0.5%. There was also a fee payable to the offshore  bond provider on top of this. All this was 
clearly set out in the advice documentation. 
Ive thought carefully about this. But Im not going  to require NDL to refund  these  fees. I say 
this because at the time, Mr and Mrs P wanted  investment advice. I realise  that theyve now 
chosen to rearrange  their investments on a non-advised basis.  But I think this is partly 
because of a greater understanding of investing, gained  as a result  of this complaint. At the 
time, they wanted  advice, a service for which they were  always going to have to pay. My aim 
here, as mentioned above, is to put Mr and Mrs P back in the position theyd now be in if 
theyd been given suitable advice.  They  would  have had to pay for that advice, so it wouldnt  
be fair to refund  the fees. 
what should  NDL do? 
To compensate Mr and Mrs P fairly,  NDL must:
Convert the £97,500 the trust invested  in the offshore bond into Euros at the 
exchange rate on the date the investment  began. 
Compare the performance of the investment with that of the benchmark  shown  below 
and pay to Mr and Mrs P the difference between  the fair value  and the actual value of 
the investment,  in Euros. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay interest as set out below. 
Pay Mr and Mrs P the equivalent  in Euros of £500 for the upset caused by the 
unsuitable advice.  
NDL should also pay any sums required to cover taxable gains as a result of 
changing their investments. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Prudential 
offshore surrenderedfor half the 
investment: date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
Ref: DRN21056875bond  (for 
£97,500)FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsloss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date, converted  into 
Euros at the exchange rate on the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date, in Euros, had it been 
made in Euros at the start date and produced a return using the benchmark.
The start date used should be the date the money  was actually invested into the offshore 
bond, not the date Mr and Mrs P transferred the cash. I say this, as I dont  think its 
unreasonable for there to be a processing delay - particularly in this case, as the funds were 
transferred on Christmas  Eve.   
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  NDL should 
use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Income payments
At the point each  income payment was actually  made, NDL should convert the amount paid 
into Euros at the exchange rate on that date. NDL should then deduct this amount  from the 
fair value  calculation at the point each was actually  paid so each payment ceases to accrue 
any return in the calculation from that point  on. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs P wanted income  with some growth  with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Ref: DRN21056876I consider that Mr and Mrs Ps risk profile  was in between, in the sense that they were  
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mr and Mrs P into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr and Mrs P would  have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs P could have obtained 
from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude. 
As NDL no longer has access to historic  information about Mr and Mrs Ps investments,  
Mr and Mrs P should provide NDL promptly with evidence (for example, bank statements) 
showing the relevant  dates  for the initial investment,  income payments and surrender 
proceeds. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Network Direct Limited to pay compensation as set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2105687