K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK plc recorded  a CIFAS marker against his name. 
CIFAS is the UKs  fraud prevention agency.  
background
In October  2015 Mr B opened an account  with Barclays.  A week later the account  was 
credited with £500; most of that was withdrawn  in two cash machine  withdrawals  the same  
day. The next day there were two further  payments  into the account, totalling  a further £830, 
followed by cash machine withdrawals of £500.
The payments into the account were later identified  as fraudulent   meaning the holders of 
the accounts from which they were made  hadnt  authorised them. They  were  reversed.   Mr B 
said he knew nothing about them.  He also said he hadnt made the cash  machine 
withdrawals and didnt  know how anyone could have obtained his bank card and known his 
PIN. He speculated that someone  in his shared accommodation might have opened his post, 
although he also said that he had received both the card and the PIN. 
Barclays closed Mr Bs account and placed  a CIFAS marker against  Mr Bs name. Mr B 
complained, saying he knew nothing about the payments into his account or the withdrawals 
from it. When he referred the complaint to this service, one of our investigators looked  at it 
but thought that Barclays had acted fairly. Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman  
review the case.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however come to the same  overall  
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
Im satisfied that the transfers into Mr Bs account  were fraudulent,  and werent authorised by 
the respective  account holders. Their own banks will have investigated  those payments 
before reaching  that conclusion. Mr B may not have been directly  involved in that, but he 
says he knew nothing  about the withdrawals  either.  Given he says he kept his card and PIN 
safe, I think thats unlikely. It may be that he didnt  benefit directly from the payments and the 
withdrawals (and may even have been an unwitting  victim himself),  but I dont believe hes 
told Barclays everything he knows about  these events. 
In the circumstances, I think there would have been good  grounds  to report the events here 
to the police to investigate, and that Barclays was therefore justified in placing a CIFAS  
marker against Mr Bs name.           
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2019.
Ref: DRN20354732Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2035473