K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the amount Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has paid on
 a travel insurance claim.  All references  to IPA also include its agents.
background 
Mr and Mrs A had an annual multi trip policy with IPA. Mr and Mrs A booked  their flights  and
accommodation for an upcoming holiday at the same time. But, their travel visas  were 
purchased separately, about  a week later.
Unfortunately, they had to cancel their holiday due to the death  of a close  family member. 
Mr and Mrs A submitted  a claim to IPA but it was initially declined. IPA reconsidered the 
claim after it was provided with more information.  It then agreed to pay most of the amount 
Mr and Mrs A had claimed  for.
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with how much IPA has paid, theyve not been refunded for the 
visas they bought or compensated for the amount of time IPA took to consider the claim. 
They also said the time taken by IPA caused them distress, as it served as a reminder of 
their loss.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint but Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree.  
my provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 19 August 2019.  I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
In these particular circumstances, based on all of the terms and conditions of the policy,  I 
think IPA treated Mr and Mrs A fairly  in accepting  the claim.
Mr and Mrs A paid £3,241  for their flights and accommodation and an additional  £70 for
 visas. Their policy had an excess payment  of £75 per person and theyd  previously 
received a £150 refund from their travel provider. IPA deducted these amounts from the 
holiday cost and paid Mr and Mrs A a total of £2,941.
What I now need to decide is, whether the cost of the visas Mr and Mrs A bought  
separately should also be paid.
The policy provides cover for irrecoverable payments and charges for cancellation prior to 
departure. I havent seen anything within the policy terms,  which suggests  the cost of visas 
isnt covered. And I also havent  seen  anything in the policy  which indicates that these had 
to be purchased within the main booking for the flights and accommodation in order to be 
covered.
Given Mr and Mrs A wouldnt  have  been  able to enter their intended  holiday destination 
without purchasing the visas, and considering the length of time the visas  were valid for I 
think the visas  should  fairly be considered an integral part of Mr and Mrs As holiday cost. 
And, a visa cost, is usually one that is irrecoverable once the visas are issued. Because 
of this, I think it would  be fair and reasonable for IPA to pay Mr and Mrs A the £70 they 
were charged for the visas, plus interest  from the date they made  the original settlement.
Ref: DRN29755182Overall, it took IPA almost  a year to consider  and pay Mr and Mrs As claim. In the 
circumstances and based on the evidence  provided I do think  it was reasonable for IPA 
to ask further questions. And, as I mentioned above,  I think  IPA acted fairly by agreeing  
to accept the claim. So because of this, I wont be awarding interest on the main 
settlement amount or asking IPA to pay any compensation.
my provisional decision
Im minded  to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to require Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to pay Mr and Mrs A:
    £70 for the cost of the visas plus interest at 8% simple per year from the 
date the original settlement payment was issued to the date payment is made.
responses to my provisional  decision
IPA responded  and accepted the proposals set out in my provisional decision.   
Mr and Mrs A responded and said they disagreed with the decision. They felt IPA had 
unreasonably refused  their claim and only accepted it once  they had brought this complaint 
to our service. And, even then only after a considerable amount of time had passed.  They  
said they should be compensated for going  without the money and are concerned that 
others in a similar situation may also lose out if a strong message isnt sent to IPA. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs A say I should review my decision and award them  compensation for the amount 
of time they were without the funds. In summary,  they believe I should  also award this to 
serve as a deterrent  to IPA acting the same way in the future. 
While the investigation  of this complaint may have taken longer  than Mr and Mrs A wouldve 
liked, it wouldnt be for me to award  compensation for this as it is outside  the scope of this 
decision. I have  to concentrate on the claim they made under their insurance policy and 
ultimately whether  I think IPA handled  their claim  in a fair and reasonable way. It isnt the 
role of this service to regulate financial businesses or make awards that are intended to act 
as a punishment.
I explained in my provisional findings  that I felt it was reasonable for IPA to ask the further 
questions it did and that it think it treated Mr and Mrs A fairly  in agreeing to accept the claim 
when, strictly speaking, it wasnt covered under  the policy definitions. 
I dont think IPA unreasonably declined the claim initially, so I dont think it would be 
appropriate to award  compensation or backdate the interest any further  in the 
circumstances. 
The only issue which  remains outstanding  is the payment for the cost of the visas Mr and 
Mrs A purchased. Neither  party has made  a comment about my provisional proposal in 
respect of these, so I see no reason to change my mind. 
Ref: DRN29755183my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint in part and require  Inter Partner  Assistance SA to pay Mr 
and Mrs A:
    £70 for the cost of the visas plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date the
original settlement payment was issued to the date payment is made1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
1
1 If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much  its taken  off. It should also give them  a certificate.
Ref: DRN2975518