K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  (BMW FS) wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
Background
Mr H entered into a HPA with BMW  FS in January  2019. He says that when the car was 
delivered there were  warning lights on the dashboard. He took the car to a garage and it was 
found there had been a major leak. It was also found that there was old brake  fluid, the 
brakes were  worn and there were outstanding recalls. Mr H says he was told not to drive  the 
car as it was dangerous. He says the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that it hadnt been 
properly serviced or maintained. 
Mr H paid for repairs and says he couldnt  drive  the car for three  days  and a courtesy car 
would have cost him extra. He says his costs should  be refunded and a full service  should 
be paid for given the issues  he experienced. He also says that he wasnt given the full cost 
of the vinyl wrap that had been promised in discussions  with the dealer. Overall, Mr H asked 
for £1,000  to cover the cost of the issues and the inconvenience he experienced.  
BMW FS says that Mr H experienced  issues with the car within the first 30 days  and that he 
accepted repairs  so he didnt have a short  term right to rejection.  It offered  to cover the cost 
of repairs (£180.36) and also to pay Mr H £150  compensation as a gesture of goodwill due 
to the issues he experienced. It says that the brake pads  are consumable  items  and that if 
they measured at 3.5mm,  they would meet a MOT standard test for effectiveness. It also 
says that servicing  is an issue for Mr H and so it wouldnt cover this cost. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
acquisition because it experienced a leak within a few days and the bleed nipples were  
found to have seized on the brake  callipers. She agreed that BMW  FS should  refund the 
costs of the repairs (along with interest) and also refund  any costs for the bleed  nipples  on 
receipt of an invoice.
Our investigator noted the wear  on the brakes  but said they were above the level that most 
manufacturers recommended and above the legal limit and so she didnt require BMW FS to 
cover the cost of replacing them. She said that she hadnt seen evidence  regarding the issue  
Mr H had raised with the right hand drive shaft and this wasnt mentioned  in the inspection  
report Mr H had carried out. 
In regard to the service  history, our investigator said there wasnt evidence to show  that the 
car was advertised as having a full service history and so didnt require BMW FS to do 
anything further  in regard to this. She didnt  find evidence  to show  that the dealer had agreed 
to pay £1,500 towards a vinyl wrap but noted the numbers in the HPA were  different to those 
on the sales invoice.  She noted the costs  and inconvenience Mr H had been  caused and 
recommended BMW  FS increase its compensation offer to £300.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality when supplied  making it dangerous to drive  and noted  that he drove it in this 
condition for the first few days. He said the car hadnt been  checked before it was supplied  
and hadnt undergone the maintenance and servicing it should have in its first few years  
even though the car was advertised as having  a full service history. He said he acquired the 
car from a dealer  rather than privately  because he wanted the checks to have  taken place. 
Ref: DRN26401072Mr H says that due to the many issues he experienced in the first few days  he had asked for 
a major service  to be carried  out. He didnt agree that the recommended redress was 
sufficient and said that given the time this complaint  had been ongoing he now required 
£1,400 as a final settlement. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr H acquired  a used car through a HPA with BMW FS. Under the regulations, specifically 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), BMW  FS can be held liable if the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors  such  
as the age and mileage  of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. In this case the car was around four years  old and had been 
driven over 40,000  miles at acquisition. 
With a used car it would  be expected that there  would be some  wear and tear. However 
Mr H experienced issues  within  the first few days of having the car and given  the nature of 
these  a leak in the engine and the seized  bleed  nipples  - I find that there  were  faults  with 
the car at acquisition  and the car wasnt sufficiently durable. Therefore I uphold  this 
complaint in regard  to the car not being  of satisfactory quality.
In cases where faults are identified within the first 30 days the consumer can have a short  
term right to reject. However in this case Mr H decided to have the car repaired.  I have seen  
a copy of an invoice  dated 23 January 2019 which includes an investigation and clean  up of 
the leak in the engine,  brake fluid change, coolant top up and a replacement  fuel sensor. 
The total cost that Mr H paid was £180.36. BMW FS agreed to refund this amount which  I 
find reasonable.
On the invoice it is also recorded that the all bleed  nipples are seized. I do not have 
evidence to show if Mr H paid for these to be repaired however if he did then I also find it 
reasonable that BMW  FS covers the cost of this.
Mr H says that the brakes were worn. The invoice records the brake  pads as being  worn to 
3.5 mm. Brakes  are usually a serviceable  item and given the age and mileage of the car at 
acquisition it would be reasonable to expect some wear on the brakes. Most manufacturers  
recommend that brake pads are changed  at around 3mm and the legal limit is 1.5mm.  As 
the brakes were  not worn  to this level I do not find I can say these were in an unsatisfactory  
state at the point of supply, therefore I do not require BMW FS to do anything further in 
regard to this issue.
Given the issues identified shortly after acquisition, Mr H said that the required services 
hadnt been undertaken and the car hadnt  been properly maintained.  He said the 
advertisement for the car said it had a full service history.  I have  looked  at the service history 
and can see that services were carried out at around 20,000 miles, 30,000 miles and 40,000 
miles. The 40,000 mile service was carried out in November  2018 by the supplying dealer. I 
understand why Mr H has raised concerns  about  the service  history due to the issues  he 
Ref: DRN26401073experienced. However, in this case I find that the fair resolution is for the repairs  to be paid 
for by BMW  FS and I do not require  it to cover the cost of a full service. 
Mr H also mentioned in his complaint an issue with the right hand drive  shaft.  I havent  seen 
any further evidence  of this issue and it wasnt noted  in work card from January  2019 and so 
I havent considered  this issue further.
Mr H was provided with a car that wasnt of satisfactory  quality. This meant  the car had to be 
returned for repair. Mr H has explained that he was without the car for three days and didnt  
have a courtesy car meaning he was unable  to travel to work for two days. He also says he 
had to spend a lot on fuel at the outset  due to the issues. Given the distress and 
inconvenience the issues caused I agree that compensation is required and I agree with our 
investigators recommendation of £300. I appreciate Mr H doesnt think this is sufficient but 
as the issues  were resolved within three  days and the costs  of the repairs will be refunded  I 
find this reasonable.
The final issue relates to the numbers contained in the sales invoice compared to the HPA. 
Mr H has questioned these as he says in negotiations the dealer agreed to pay £1,500 
towards a vinyl wrap but in the end only paid £1,000.
I have looked  at the HPA and it records the amount  of credit  provided as £14,489 which  is 
also the amount  recorded in the invoice. Further information has been provided to 
understand how the figures were arrived at during the sales negotiations.  While I can see the 
figures in the sales invoice are different to those Mr H has provided (which  he says reflect 
his discussions) I do not find that I have enough  to say that Mr H has suffered a loss through 
this process. I understand the point  Mr H has made but I also realise  that the numbers do 
sometimes move around through the negotiations for a car transaction.  On balance, without 
further evidence  I do not find I can say that Mr H wasnt  provided with the funding he 
expected. He had the details available to him before he signed the agreement  and in signing 
the HPA he agreed  to the terms.
Overall, while  I appreciate this experience has been upsetting for Mr H and caused him 
inconvenience, as the car has been  repaired and I have nothing  to suggest the repairs 
werent successful I find that the fairest resolution  is for Mr H to be refunded the repair costs 
and paid £300 compensation. 
Ref: DRN26401074My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited should, as it has agreed:
1.refund  Mr H £180.36 for the repairs he paid for;
2.refund  Mr H any repair  costs he incurred for the repair of the bleed nipples on receipt 
of an invoice
3.pay Mr H £300 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he was caused.
Items 1 and 2 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2640107