K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc has recorded a CIFAS marker against  his name. 
As a result, Mr Q says hes unable to open  an account with any other bank. CIFAS is the 
UKs fraud alert service.   
background
Mr Q had an account with Barclays. In October 2018  a telephone payment of £2,940 was 
made to the account. That money  was withdrawn the same  day by two cash machine 
withdrawals, three withdrawals made using an assisted service  device (or ASD) at a branch 
of Barclays and by two online payments. 
The payment made to Mr Qs was fraudulent;  that is, the person from whose account the 
money came hadnt authorised the payment. Barclays closed the account and recorded a 
fraud marker  against Mr Qs name. 
Mr Q said he didnt know anything about  the payment to his account.  He didnt know  either 
who had made the withdrawals and transfers  from his account, although he noticed  that his 
card was missing after the transactions had been made. He said he hadnt disclosed his PIN 
or other security details to anyone. 
Barclays said it had acted  correctly.  It was obliged to make  the CIFAS  report  and was 
entitled in the circumstances to close Mr Qs account without notice. 
Mr Q complained to this service, through  his father. One of our investigators  considered  
what had happened, but concluded that Barclays had acted  fairly.  He didnt recommend that 
the bank do anything more to resolve Mr Qs complaint. Mr Q didnt accept the investigators 
conclusions, however, and asked that an ombudsman review the case.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusion as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons.
I think it very likely  that whoever paid the money into Mr Qs account knew  that they would 
then be able to withdraw it or transfer  it. The payments to and from the account were closely  
linked and in my view must have  been  carried out by the same person or group  of people. 
It would have been possible for someone  to transfer  money to Mr Qs account  without  his 
knowledge or authority. All they would have needed  was his account  details.  But withdrawing 
the money or transferring  it online  would have been very much more  difficult.  
The cash  machine and ASD withdrawals were  made  using Mr Qs genuine card and the 
correct PIN. In addition,  the ASD withdrawals would  have required Mr Qs date of birth. 
Whilst Mr Q said after the withdrawals that hed mislaid his bank card,  theres no explanation 
of how anyone could  have known his PIN. Mr Q said he didnt keep a record  of it, and its not 
kept in an accessible  form on the card. I think it unlikely that anyone could have guessed it. 
Nor is it apparent how anyone could have gained access  to Mr Qs account  online. Even if 
they had been able to do so, they would  need a code before they could make any transfers  
Ref: DRN22464112from the account. That would either be generated on the mobile phone registered to the 
account or by the use of a card reader with the genuine card and correct  PIN. 
It may be that Mr Q didnt himself  have the benefit of the fraudulent funds that passed  
through his account. I do however think that he probably knows  very much  more about the 
use of his account than he has told the bank or Barclays. In particular, I think its likely that 
he allowed someone  else to use his card and PIN and gave them  enough information to 
make online transfers. In the circumstances, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly in closing 
the account and placing a CIFAS marker  against Mr Qs name.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Mr Qs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr Q to accept  or reject my decision before  3 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2246411