K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  do enough to help him when he was the 
victim of a scam.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  In September 2018, Mr S was contacted by a 
scammer purporting to be from his television provider. He was tricked into sharing his debit 
card details (linked to his account with another bank  B) in lieu of a refund he was told he 
was due. 
Shortly after that call, Mr S became concerned that it might  have been a scam, so using his 
mobile phone,  he called B and told them what had happened. Towards the end of this call 
Mr Ss landline phone rang, and he took the call. This was supposedly from Bs fraud team  
but was actually the scammer. 
The scammer told Mr S that his accounts  with B were under attack and that he needed to 
move his funds to a safe account. Mr S was told that his account with HSBC had also been  
compromised and that he needed to make further transfers to a safe  account. 
Mr S followed the instructions hed been given  by the scammer and, as a result,  made the 
following transfers totalling £11,700 from his HSBC account. Both these  transfers were 
made through online banking without interaction  with HSBC staff.
Date Time Amount
12 September 2018 4.15pm £9,000
12 September 2018 5.12pm £2,700
Later that evening, Mr S had misgivings  about  what had happened and at around  7pm he 
contacted HSBC to report  that hed been the victim of a scam. HSBC  took steps to contact 
the beneficiary bank,  but ultimately  were  only able to recover around £500. Mr S complained 
 he was unhappy that HSBC didnt do enough  to protect him or to recover his money. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. In summary,  she thought the payment  
instructions Mr S had provided were unusual and out of character. She concluded that 
HSBC ought to have intervened at the time and, if they had, his losses  could have been 
prevented. She recommended that HSBC refund the payments made to the scammer (less 
the amount already recovered), add 8% simple interest to this, and pay Mr S £50 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Mr S accepted our investigators recommendation. HSBC disagreed, raised several  further 
points, and asked  for an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
In October  2020 I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  it 
for the following reasons:  
Ref: DRN208408221.It is common ground that Mr S authorised  the scam payments of £9,000 and £2,700.  
He was tricked into doing so believing (at the time) that he was transferring his 
money to a safe account to help prevent  fraud and protect himself.
2.I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr S was the victim of a 
scam. He provided valid instructions  through his online banking.  So, although he 
didnt intend to pay the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
and the terms of his account, Mr S is presumed  liable  for the loss in the first instance.
3.However, taking account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice  at the time, I consider it would have  been  fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to have:
Monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators  that their customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things),  
particularly given  the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years,  
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
Taken additional steps or made additional checks  in some circumstances 
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing the payment; or in 
some cases, to have  declined to make a payment altogether  in order  to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial  harm  from fraud.
4.In Mr Ss case, Im satisfied there  were  the following  triggers to alert HSBC to the 
possibility of a fraud  or scam:
The payment  was for an unusually large amount. Ive looked  at Mr Ss account 
statements going back to December 2017,  which I consider gives  a good sample 
size to assess what was typical activity for the account. The account was 
generally well-managed and was typically in a credit balance. Most payments 
leaving the account were generally  for only a few hundred pounds.  In the nine 
months prior to the first payment to the scammer, the largest payment to leave 
the account was only for around  £350.  There was nothing  else within that time 
period approaching the initial payment amount of £9,000 that was sent as a result  
of the scam.
The payment  represented  a sudden  and uncharacteristic increase  in spending 
from the account.
The payment  was to a new payee.
The payment  depleted  the majority  of the money in the account at that time.
5.Ultimately,  its a matter for HSBC and/or the regulator as to how they choose to 
configure their fraud detection systems given the balance  between  the duty of care 
towards clients and the duty to execute instructions without  undue  delay.  But on the 
facts and evidence  before me, I am satisfied that HSBC  could and should reasonably 
have made additional  checks with Mr S before they let the first payment through.  
There were enough triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic activity such that, in my 
view, a prudent and professional banker  could  and should have realised that 
something didnt  look quite right  and that further enquiries  would be appropriate 
before going further. It was reasonably foreseeable that failing to do so, might result  
Ref: DRN20840823in this type of financial  harm.  I therefore  conclude that HSBC didnt do enough to 
protect Mr S from the risk of loss.
6.So, Ive gone  on to consider whether HSBCs  intervention at this point would  have 
made a difference  its essential for any failing to have caused the loss. Here,  if 
HSBC had contacted Mr S, Id have expected them to have asked probing questions  
with the aim of uncovering  a potential scam and not necessarily to have taken Mr Ss 
answers at face value  (because banks know that victims are often coached into 
giving cover stories by the scammers). I think Mr S probably would have truthfully 
answered any questions he was asked. I think its likely  he would have explained that 
he was instructing the payment to move his money to a safe account to prevent the 
risk of fraud.  In these circumstances, I think HSBC should and would have informed 
him that his account with them wasnt under attack in any way and warned him that 
this closely fits the circumstances of a well-known scam. Its likely HSBC  would have 
explained that a genuine bank  would never ask him to transfer his money to a safe  
account. I think that, but for HSBCs failure  to ask questions, the scam  probably 
would not have succeeded.
7.My conclusion  about what was likely to have happened if HSBC had asked suitable  
questions is supported by the fact that, shortly after making the payment,  
Mr S realised this was likely to be a scam and reported it to HSBC.  It appears that, 
on reflection, he started to entertain doubts about the payments he had just 
instructed. If HSBC had asked questions in line with the banks legal  and regulatory  
duties, and the relevant codes, it seems probable that Mr S would have become 
alerted to the scam  and wouldnt  have  followed through  with his payment  instruction, 
as a result  of which the scam would have  failed and Mr S wouldnt have lost £11,700.  
I think it is self-evident that, if the scam  had been  uncovered at the first payment, the 
second payment  (and the resultant loss) would also have been  prevented.  
8.Ive also thought about if Mr S hadnt answered the contact from HSBC by being  
unable to take their call (particularly  as he is likely to have still been on the phone to 
the scammer). I dont think HSBC could fairly have concluded  that being unable  to 
contact Mr S was reasonable reassurance that he wasnt  at risk of financial harm. 
And in those circumstances, Id have expected them to hold the payment(s) until they 
had been able to speak  to him. 
9.In light of my conclusion above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether 
HSBC also exercised enough care and urgency when trying to recover the stolen 
funds from the beneficiary bank.  But for completeness, by the time HSBC  were 
notified of the scam, nearly  all the funds had already been removed from the 
beneficiary bank   so I dont  think they could reasonably  have done  more on that 
particular issue. 
10.I have  also considered whether  Mr S should  bear some responsibility  by way of 
contributory negligence, especially given how quickly  he entertained misgivings after 
the transactions. However, it is clear  that when making the payment he had been 
convinced that his money was at risk and that he was taking what  he believed  to be 
prudent steps to protect it. I dont think Mr S can fairly be described as having been  
negligent. He was the victim of a sophisticated  scam. HSBC are the finance 
professionals and Mr S was an average  consumer  with no knowledge of such scams, 
who had been  cleverly duped into complying and was understandably concerned  that 
Ref: DRN20840824failure to co-operate might result  in losing his money.  People  under pressure often 
dont think or see things as clearly  as they normally would  but then suddenly  have 
a lightbulb  moment as soon as they are off the call or freed from the stressful 
situation. 
11.HSBC say that if this complaint were to proceed to a civil claim in court their 
obligations would be measured against the so-called  Quincecare  duty.  They point out 
this case states  that the law should  not impose too burdensome an obligation on 
bankers, which  hampers the effective transaction of banking business  unnecessarily  
and that to impose liability whenever  speculation might suggest  dishonesty would 
impose wholly impractical standards  on bankers. We take account  of the law but are 
not bound  by it when reaching  an outcome that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. But in any event,  I am not persuaded the outcome would be any 
different at law. This was not a case of mere  speculation  but of reasonable grounds 
for a prudent professional banker to foresee the risk of fraud and financial harm to an 
ordinary retail customer/consumer  such as Mr S. Whichever lens one looks through  
be it the law, regulatory codes and guidance,  good  industry  practice, etc  the fair 
and reasonable outcome is the same: there  were enough  triggers  of unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity with Mr Ss instruction to pay £9,000 to a new payee that 
HSBC objectively had reason to be concerned that he might be at risk of financial  
harm. Had they intervened, its likely  the scam  would have unravelled, and his losses  
would not have occurred. 
12.In the circumstances,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
reimburse Mr S for the loss he has suffered without any reduction,  together with 
interest to compensate  for being deprived  of the money he lost from his account.  
13.I also think that a modest compensation award  of £300 should  be made for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S has suffered. In reaching that conclusion,  I am 
mindful that much of the distress  was caused by the criminal act of fraudsters who 
tricked him into authorising the transactions  but HSBC ultimately could have 
prevented this. HSBC  have suggested that 8% is a punitive  rate of interest  that isnt 
fair to apply in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered  this but I dont 
agree. Im not suggesting  that Mr S would have  otherwise invested and achieved a 
return of 8%. But, given the average costs  of borrowing over time, it has long been  
our approach that this is a suitable  rate to compensate for being  deprived of the 
funds and I remain satisfied it is fair to apply it in the circumstances  of this complaint.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, but subject to any further information I receive from either  
Mr S or HSBC  UK Bank Plc, Im intending to uphold this complaint and require the bank to:
Pay £11,700 (less any amount already recovered and returned) to Mr S within  
28 days of receiving  notification of his acceptance of my decision;
Pay interest on that sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year from the date of loss to the 
date of refund;
Pay Mr S £300 compensation for distress  and inconvenience within 28 days  of 
receiving notification  of their acceptance  of my final decision, failing which  interest 
will accrue thereafter on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until payment.
Ref: DRN20840825Mr S responded to say he accepted my provisional  decision. HSBC responded and raised 
some further  points which Ill address below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC say that if they were required to intervene in all transactions  like that of Mr Ss, then 
this would result in significant  customer  detriment  with vast numbers of payments being held 
up each day. I acknowledged  in my provisional decision that there  is a balance to be struck 
and I appreciate the difficulties faced by banks  in meeting the competing  requirements to 
provide efficient banking services  to their customers, whilst also being alert to fraud.  The 
systems and procedures HSBC put in place to manage those competing  demands are a 
matter for them. But I maintain, for the reasons explained above,  that in Mr Ss case  and the 
circumstances specific to this complaint, there  was enough going on for a prudent  banker to 
objectively have concerns that ought to have prompted  some intervention  by the bank.   
HSBC also say that Mr Ss own admissions  and actions reflect that he had suspicions that all 
was not as it seemed, but his subsequent  actions  didnt  represent a heightened  level of 
diligence. They feel that my findings  implied that Mr S was not required to meet even a basic  
duty of care in respect of his own actions.  They maintain that Mr S was negligent and should 
be responsible  for his loss, or in the alternative, a proportion  of his loss through contributory 
negligence. They also question whether it was reasonable for Mr S to accept from (who  he 
believed to be) B, that his account  with HSBC was under threat. 
Ive carefully considered  this. I agree that customers have a duty to act responsibly and to 
take reasonable steps to protect themselves from potential fraud. I just dont agree, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, that Mr S failed in that way. It is also worth noting  that there 
is a significant  imbalance in knowledge and familiarity with the methodologies of fraudsters 
between a large international bank and a customer such as Mr S. 
With the benefit of hindsight  and with the luxury  of time to consider the events that Mr S 
describes, I can understand the points  that HSBC have raised. But what  I dont think  has 
sufficiently been  considered in their response  is the pressure Mr S was placed  under by the 
no doubt skilled and proficient scammer.  This wasnt a crude  scam with obvious risks that 
were recognised and recklessly ignored  by Mr S. He isnt alone  in being a victim  of a scam 
like this, and part of the reason such scams  are successful is the pressure and sense  of 
urgency created by the scammer. This is against the backdrop of being told that funds were 
at risk if the instructions werent  followed   creating a fear that a delay in action would lead to 
a loss. I dont think  the fact that once released from the pressure of the situation, Mr S was 
more able to see and identify the risks, changes this. 
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, I dont think Mr S acted negligently. He was 
taking steps which,  at the time, he believed were  required to protect his account. And for the 
reasons explained in my provisional  decision,  I think HSBC, as the finance professionals,  
could and should have intervened and that this would have prevented his loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN20840826HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Pay £11,700 (less any amount already recovered and returned) to Mr S within  
28 days of receiving  notification of his acceptance of my decision;
Pay interest on that sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year from the date of loss to the 
date of refund;
Pay Mr S £300 compensation for distress  and inconvenience within 28 days  of 
receiving notification  of their acceptance  of my final decision, failing which  interest 
will accrue thereafter on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2084082