K820x#14complaint
Ms M and Mr K complained that Masthaven Bank  Limited took too long to process their 
mortgage application. They also complained  that they incurred legal costs because  of the 
information which Masthaven  requested.
Ms M and Mr K have  also complained about  the broker they used.  Ive considered  that 
complaint in a separate decision, and this decision only relates to Masthaven.
background
Ms M and her ex-husband had an interest only mortgage with another lender. This was due 
to end on 31 July 2018. Ms M and her new partner  Mr K wanted to re-mortgage with a 
different lender. They went to a broker in mid-March and were given a decision  in principle 
from Masthaven on 23 March.
Masthaven reviewed  Ms M and Mr Ks full application on 5 April. The broker  told Ms M and 
Mr K that Masthaven wanted more information. This included three months bank statements 
from Mr K. Masthaven also needed  more information about Ms Ms divorce agreement,  
because the credit search it had done  had come up with another  mortgage in Ms Ms name. 
Ms M sent a Declaration of Trust, setting  out the divorce arrangements.  Mr K sent three 
months bank statements.  Masthaven received these on 11 April and had further queries 
about both issues.  Ms M obtained and sent a revised Declaration of Trust, and Mr K sent 
further bank statements.
Masthaven reviewed  the documents. It agreed  it could  add a condition to the mortgage  offer 
about property  transfers relating to the divorce. But it couldnt  evidence Mr Ks employed 
income being credited to his bank  account. And some of his income  came  from abroad,  
which the lender  said it couldnt take into account.  So on 29 May, Masthaven rejected Ms M 
and Mr Ks application and refunded their valuation  fee.
Ms M and Mr K complained. They were unhappy  about the length of time it had taken 
Masthaven to reject  their application.  They accepted Masthaven  had the right to reject  the 
application, but pointed out it had taken over two months after getting  the decision in 
principle. So theyd lost two months  when they could have looked elsewhere.  Timescales 
were very tight when  they needed  to pay off the interest-only mortgage on 31 July.
Ms M and Mr K also complained that theyd incurred £1,000 of legal fees for documents 
regarding Ms Ms ex-husband. And Ms M said shed had abusive phone calls from her ex-
husband.
Masthaven didnt  agree  with Ms M and Mr Ks complaint. It set out why it had needed  to ask 
for the divorce  information  about Ms M, and bank statement information from Mr K. In 
relation to Ms Ms complaint that shed incurred  legal  fees,  Masthaven said it assumed Ms M 
meant getting the revised Declaration  of Trust. It said that the first version  had shown that 
Ms M was responsible for the outstanding mortgages. This would have meant theyd  had to 
factor any payments  into the affordability  assessment. Ms Ms second  Declaration of Trust 
had said both properties would be transferred into sole names. But Masthaven said it hadnt  
told Ms M she had to go to a solicitor and pay for the second Declaration of Trust. So any 
legal fees hadnt been incurred as a result  of any request it had made. 
Ref: DRN29278302Ms M and Mr K werent satisfied and complained to this service. They said theyd  been  
drained and demoralised at having to start again. They hadnt had enough  time to look for 
another interest only mortgage, which was what theyd wanted, and had had to go for a 
repayment mortgage instead. They said they were shocked at the way Masthaven  had 
treated them  when they had perfect credit  ratings and had never  had mortgage arrears.  
They were  unhappy  that Ms M hadnt  been  allowed to speak directly to the underwriters.
The adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. She explained that two months isnt an 
excessive amount of time for a lender to come to a decision, especially when it needed more 
information. And she pointed out that they knew the existing mortgage  term was coming to 
an end, and could  have started the process earlier.
The adjudicator also explained that an underwriter can ask for any documents  to help make 
the lending decision. She couldnt say the documents were unnecessary, because a lender 
would need to know the title to a property was unencumbered and that theyd have the first 
legal charge. The adjudicator noted  that Ms M had said shed incurred a large bill for legal 
work done. But she couldnt conclude  the lender hadnt needed the information  and it was 
likely Ms M would already  have  such documents following her divorce. Masthaven had 
simply asked for the information. It hadnt  asked  or advised Ms M on how to get the 
information. Shed chosen to instruct her solicitor.
The adjudicator recognised that the process was stressful, but she couldnt conclude  that 
Masthaven had acted  negligently or wrongly.
Ms M and Mr K werent satisfied:
-Ms M said that the broker had confused the property addresses on the Declaration of 
Trust. She gave the addresses for four properties,  which she and her ex-husband 
had owned separately  or together. Two of these properties had later been sold. Ms M 
said the broker had confused these  addresses, and had then said hed have to 
contact her solicitor and ex-husband. She said this hadnt been  necessary. Ive 
considered this in my separate  decision about the complaint about the broker.
-Ms M was also unhappy  that they provided payslips on 7 April, but Masthaven  didnt 
take the decision until late May. She said that if the loan was unaffordable, they 
shouldnt have  been put through  all that. She said shed suffered intense emotional 
pressure and made phone calls every day.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, Ms M and Mr K have also complained about the broker,  but this 
decision only relates to their complaint against  Masthaven.
Complaint that Masthaven took too long to reach a decision, and related matters
Ms M and Mr Ks full application was first considered  by Masthaven on 5 April 2018. The 
bank refused the application on 29 May, just under eight weeks  later.
Ref: DRN29278303Ive first considered the timescales for Ms M and Mr Ks application. They  contacted the 
broker in mid-March, and Masthaven refused their application on 29 May. I find that this 
wasnt unreasonable. Its normal for mortgage applications to take around this time for a 
lender to reach a decision, it all goes smoothly.  So starting an application in mid-March  when 
they had a deadline of the end of July was inherently risky. It was particularly so here 
because of complexities.  The lender needed  two different sorts of additional information  
clarity about the property ownership  and divorce settlement, and clarity about income. 
Lenders are entitled to make their own decisions.  But in any event, I find this was reasonable 
for Masthaven to ask for this information. I think its likely that any lender would have asked 
for similar clarification  about the status  of the title of the property, when the first Declaration  
of Trust had shown  that Ms M was responsible for mortgages on two properties.
Ms M also complained that she was refused permission to speak to the underwriter 
responsible for taking  the decision on her case. I dont find that Masthaven  was wrong to 
refuse that. Lenders  arent required to give mortgage applicants direct personal  access to 
their underwriters. Underwriters make their decisions on fact-based evidence. If an 
underwriter needed  more information,  theyd  request  it, as happened here. Its not like a 
hearing where a party aims to persuade someone by verbal  argument.
Ms M has also said that, during this clarification  process, she had abusive  phone calls from 
her ex-husband. I recognise this would have  been upsetting, but I cant  say that Masthaven  
was to blame for that. It was reasonable that the bank needed to know  the status of the 
property title on which it was asked to lend. 
In relation to the payslips, Masthavens  queries  related to a number  of issues. It wasnt  as 
straightforward as looking  at payslips to evidence  the income, and making an immediate 
decision. It appears that some of Mr Ks income  came from abroad and couldnt be counted.  
And during May, Masthaven was told that Ms M and Mr Ks income was paid to a holding 
account which was a charity, and drawn  when required. So there were multiple 
complications, which ultimately couldnt be resolved. In trying to get to the bottom of the 
figures and payslips, Masthaven was trying  to see if it could reach a positive decision.  I dont 
consider either the timescales, or Masthavens  attempt  to work out the actual  figures, were  
unreasonable.
complaint that Masthaven led Ms M to incur  around  £1,000 of legal fees
Ms M says she incurred around  £1,000  of legal fees because Masthaven  asked her for 
documents relating to her divorce. She describes these  as dubiously  required documents.  
As Ive set out above, I find it was reasonable that Masthaven asked for clarification about 
the title of the property. Any lender would have to know the status of the title on the property  
on which the mortgage would be secured  and its entitled to ask for documents to help it 
reach a decision.  
In terms of what happened after Masthaven said it needed that information, it was Ms Ms 
choice to instruct a solicitor to provide a revised divorce agreement.  She could have decided 
at that point to try other  lenders instead. But if Ms M hadnt chosen to get this clarified in her 
application to Masthaven,  I consider its highly likely shed  have faced  the same problem with 
other lenders. 
In fact the second Declaration of Trust did change  what Masthaven thought about the 
application. Its said that it agreed to add a condition to any mortgage offer. This would have 
Ref: DRN29278304specified that the property  transfers,  so Ms M and her ex-husband had one property each, 
would take place at the same time as any mortgage  completion. The mortgage didnt go 
ahead because of affordability.  But I cant see that the second Declaration of Trust  was 
unnecessary when it did resolve  the questions raised by the first Declaration  of Trust.
So I dont  find that Masthaven led Ms M to incur legal fees. It was reasonable for any 
responsible lender to require evidence of the title to the property.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2927830