K822xcomplaint
Mr O complained that Covea Insurance Plc wanted to hold him 50/50 liable for an accident 
following his claim under his motor  insurance  policy. 
background
Mr Os wife, the named  driver on his policy, was involved in a car accident. Mr O felt that the 
other driver was entirely to blame. But the other driver disputed  this and Covea said they 
intended to settle the claim as 50/50 liability.  Mr O complained to Covea that theyd taken too 
long to get CCTV footage which he believed would show  that his wife wasnt  at fault, and 
that theyd decided on liability before they saw that footage. Covea denied this and so Mr O 
brought his complaint to us. He didnt think he should have to pay his excess.
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
Covea had considered the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. Mr O didnt agree, and so 
his case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  has explained to Mr O, we dont  decide who is at fault for causing an 
accident, as this is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply 
to investigate whether  an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their 
policys terms and conditions when  they made their decision as regards who was 
responsible.  
Ive looked at Mr Os policy and see that it says on page 20 that Covea are entitled to Take 
over and conduct the defence and settlement  of any claim in your name or in the name of 
any other person  insured by your  policy.
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and it allows  Covea to settle  any claim 
against Mr Os policy as they see fit, whether he agrees with it or not. Insurers  are entitled to 
make a commercial decision about  whether its reasonable  for them  to settle  a claim rather 
than start or defend  court  proceedings.  
Mr O said that his car was stationary and the other driver was on the wrong side of the road 
when they hit his car. He told Covea that a bus on the road at the time of the accident  had 
CCTV footage  of the accident. He felt that this would  show that the accident wasnt  his wifes 
fault but the other drivers fault. But he felt that Covea decided liability  without getting this 
footage. 
Covea said they had obtained the CCTV footage but because of its format they couldnt view 
it. They said theyd asked  for it in alternative  formats but to no avail. So theyd taken  
alternative steps to get evidence about  the accident  from the driver  of the bus that took the 
CCTV footage. They  got a statement from the bus driver, who was an independent witness. 
He said that Mr Os car pulled out from a side road in front of the bus and the third party 
driver was overtaking the bus. So Covea  took the preliminary view that it was split liability. 
They thought that, even  if Mr Os car were shown to be stationary at the point of collision, 
both parties manoeuvres had contributed to the accident.
Ref: DRN20303192Once our investigator  became involved she arranged for Covea  to receive  the footage in a 
format they could access. Covea said they hadnt finally decided on 50/50 liability  before 
they received  the CCTV film. But when they looked at it, it didnt change their preliminary 
view that there was split lability. But Mr O said that the other driver had told him that Covea 
had already settled  it the claim,  months  before seeing the CCTV footage.  So he didnt 
believe that Covea  genuinely took the footage into account when they did see it. He felt that 
hed done more to investigate the incident  than Covea had. 
Covea did obtain  the CCTV footage promptly after the accident, but when they couldnt  
access it they sought evidence from the bus driver, an independent witness, instead. So I 
think that was fair. And I dont think that its wrong  for an insurer to take a preliminary view 
on liability  after receiving some evidence,  and then to revise  that view or not depending  on 
subsequent evidence. Mr O suggested that Covea had already  made  up their minds on 
liability and so then had to discount the CCTV evidence to save face. But its not in an 
insurers interest to settle if it thinks liability is clear.  Covea  took the preliminary view that it 
wasnt, and I dont  think that was unreasonable on the evidence they had at that point. They  
told us in early April that they hadnt  decided liability, and when they saw the CCTV footage 
later that month it didnt  change their view. I think  they had done what  they could to obtain 
the evidence Mr O wanted them to, and theres  nothing to suggest  that their view would have 
been different  even  if theyd got the CCTV evidence earlier. And I think that Covea did have 
enough evidence  to support a split liability decision.  
I can see that Mr O is upset as he thinks that the other driver was in the wrong, but I dont 
think that Covea  have been  unreasonable in obtaining or reviewing the evidence about the 
accident or in taking  the view about liability split. And so I dont require them  to do anything 
else.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2030319