K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  Lloyds  Bank PLC defaulted  her account even though itd agreed a 
repayment plan with her 
background
Miss S had a repayment plan but in December 2017  she was hospitalised  for several  
months. During that time she spoke  to Lloyds and she said she arranged  for a family  
member to go into the local branch to keep making the payments. So she was shocked  to 
find out that Lloyds was going to transfer  her account to a debt recovery agent.  Shes  also 
worried that Lloyds  has put the wrong information on her credit record.
Lloyds said it conducted an account review in January 2016 when it made a decision to 
close Miss Ss accounts and withdraw  her banking facilities.  But it came  to a payment 
arrangement for her to clear the overdrawn balance. But by June 2018 it became clear that 
the debt could not be repaid within a short-term plan so it defaulted the account. It backdated 
the default to March  2016 and refunded various fees. 
It couldnt understand why Miss Ss credit record was inaccurate but it confirmed it was 
sending the correct information to the Credit  Reference Agencies  (CRAs).  It said she would 
need to raise this with the relevant CRA. But in any event it didnt think  this would affect  her 
credit rating because the overriding  issue  would  be the default.
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  had done anything wrong. He could see that there was a 
new repayment plan from September 2017  but Miss S missed her payments in January and 
February 2018. Lloyds  had tried to contact her but was unsuccessful.  Miss S called the bank 
at the end of February 2018  to explain what had happened and why she had missed her 
payments. The operator  placed her account  on hold for 30 days and told her to phone  back  
by 22 March 2018 to update the bank on her situation. It offered her some help with its 
priority team but Miss S didnt want this. She didnt call back and she missed her March 
payment. In April 2018 Lloyds wrote to her and sent her text messages. She missed her May 
payment but made a payment in June.  But by then it was too late and Lloyds  closed her 
account on 15 June  2018. It agreed  to refund all fees charged from January 2016  and it 
backdated the default to March 2016. He thought  that was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Miss S didnt agree with this. She said there wasnt enough consideration of her health 
circumstances. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be very disappointing for Miss S particularly in light of her health  problems but 
Ive come to the same  conclusion as the investigator for very similar reasons. And theres 
not much  more I can add.
Due to her hospitalisation Miss S had problems meeting the payment arrangement.  And I 
can understand how difficult that was for her. But in February 2018 she was able to contact 
the bank and it arranged to put her account  on hold for 30 days.  Unfortunately she didnt  call 
Ref: DRN20133332it back to update it on her situation. And she hasnt  given  us any reason  why she was able to 
call the bank in February  but wasnt able to call it back a month later. She missed  her 
payments in March,  April and May 2018.  Lloyds  wrote  to her and sent her text messages but 
she didnt response.  I am aware  Miss S said she couldnt receive them  but I dont think  
Lloyds was aware of that. So I think it acted reasonably in trying to contact her before it 
finally defaulted the account.
For all those reasons I agree with our investigator that Lloyds has tried to help Miss S. And I 
cant find its done anything wrong.
By backdating the date of the default, this will only remain on Miss Ss credit record for four 
more years and not six. And the banks  refunded all the fees on her account from January 
2016. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  and Im not going to ask it to do 
anything more.
.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2013333