K820x#14complaint
Miss G and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc hasnt sent bank statements 
consistently to both of their home  addresses.
background
Miss G and Mrs D hold a joint current account together  with Barclays.  Both parties require  
statements sending to both of their addresses. Miss G and Mrs D say that this hasnt been 
happening every  month  and there  have been some months where the statements havent 
arrived at both of their addresses.
Miss G and Mrs D say this has caused them problems when trying  to pay bills from the 
account. Theyre also unhappy with the service theyve received, and the length of time it 
has taken to resolve the issue  with the statements. 
Barclays say that statements for this joint account had been sent to both Miss G and Mrs D 
from November 2017 until April 2018. In May 2018, it only issued a statement to Miss G and 
in June 2018, it only issued a statement to Mrs D. Then up to September 2018,  statements 
were only issued to Miss G. Barclays has recognised that it could have done things better, 
and has compensated Miss G and Mrs D a total of £390 for the issues  relating to statements 
being produced.  Miss G and Mrs D didnt think the compensation already given was enough.  
And theyve  said that theyre still not both consistently receiving statements. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss G and Mrs D. She found  that there had been 
issues with the statements  being sent to both addresses.  She also acknowledged that 
Miss G had spent a lot of time trying  to resolve  the issues  that shed been having.  But our 
investigator felt that the £390  Barclays has already paid to compensate  Miss G and Mrs D 
for this is fair. And so she didnt think Barclays needed to do more.
Miss G didnt  agree with our investigators  assessment. She felt that Barclays  computer 
systems needed updating and this is the reason  they both dont get statements. She says 
the issue is still ongoing. And she doesnt  feel the level of compensation Barclays has paid 
so far is reflective of the time spent in trying  to resolve things. Because Miss G and Mrs D 
didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
Barclays agree that there have been issues in some months in them sending statements  to 
both parties. Initially, they had the account  set up to send duplicate statements. This caused  
some problems with the statements being  sent to both Miss G and Mrs D. I agree that 
Barclays could have  resolved this problem  sooner  than it did  it has since told us that as 
this is a joint account, it didnt need  to set Miss G up for duplicate statements as theyd be 
automatically sent to both parties, as the account  is in joint names. 
Ref: DRN21722812Ive listened to a number  of calls Miss G has had with Barclays  about these things. I agree 
that she has spent  considerable  time trying  to get to the bottom of what  was happening  with 
the statements. So I now need to decide  if the £390  Barclays has already paid to 
Miss G and Mrs D is enough to compensate them for the things  that have gone wrong  and 
I think it is. 
Miss G and Mrs D have  received £40 for the cost of calls theyve made to Barclays. Theyve 
also received a total of £350  compensation for inconvenience and gestures of good will. And 
while I appreciate  that this situation  must have been frustrating, and it has caused upset and 
stress, I think  £350 is a fair amount to compensate for this issue. 
Miss G said that these issues meant that it was difficult to pay bills from the account, but I 
havent seen any occasion when bills werent  paid as a result  of this and Ive listened to calls 
where Miss G has operated the account  on the telephone. So while  it may not have been her 
preference to operate the account in this way, she was still able to do this and so I dont  
think she or Mrs D has lost out financially because of the issue with the statements.
Based on the information Ive seen from Barclays, while they agree that some  of the 
statements in 2018 didnt go to both parties. They say the issues have been resolved. 
Theyve sent me information to show that they have the correct address for both 
Miss G and Mrs D. Theyve also sent information  suggesting that the statements are being 
produced for both parties.  Because of this, on balance, I think  it likely the statements are 
being sent to both addresses.  
Miss G and Mrs D believe that the issue with the statements is being caused by Barclays 
systems, and they think they need  upgrading. This service looks  at individual complaints, 
and we dont have the power to ask a business to change  their IT systems, but we do have  
the power to look at what the impact of this system may have had on a consumer. Having 
done this, Ive seen enough  information from Barclays  to persuade  me that statements are 
being produced and sent to both parties.  And I cant hold Barclays responsible for 
statements that are no longer in their care. So Im not going to tell Barclays to do anything  
more for Miss G and Mrs D.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss G and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January  2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2172281