K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss L bought the policy in 2003  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. She cant 
remember how she applied for the mortgage and PPI policy but BoS has been able to 
confirm it was an in-branch  sale. The PPI policy  was part of a packaged protection plan 
called Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP)  and it consisted of three parts   Mortgage  
Repayments Cover (the PPI),  critical  illness  and life cover. In this decision Ive only 
considered Miss Ls complaint about the PPI element of the policy.
The policy provided  cover  for Miss L for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £125.36  a month towards  Miss Ls mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £7.46 a month. 
At the time,  Miss L was employed as a cleaner and bar person for a leisure  company. She 
has told us she was not entitled  to any employee  sick or redundancy pay and didnt have 
any other means of repaying her mortgage should  she be unable  to work.  Miss L was in 
good health at the time of the sale but had suffered back pain for which  she took non-
prescription drugs and she hadnt  taken any time off from work  because of it.
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2008.
Miss Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ls representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ls 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Miss L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss L and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN27273682The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss L received was misleading.  These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ls. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2008. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN27273683The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ls 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Ls complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN27273684-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Miss L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Miss L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss L and BoS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss L know  she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS hasnt been able to give us much information  to show how the PPI was sold or provide 
much paperwork  from the time of the sale. But given how long ago the sale took place and 
the mortgage account closed, I dont find this surprising. Businesses arent obliged to keep  
paperwork indefinitely. And Miss L hasnt  given us much recollection about the sale,  again 
which is unsurprising. So, in these circumcentres,  I need to decide what I think is most  likely 
to have happened, based on the very limited information available  to me.
I can see from the computer screenshots BoS has been able to provide that Miss L appears 
to have been asked a number of questions by the BoS representative about her eligibility  for 
the PPI policy. And I think its more  likely  than not that during the discussion about the policy  
the representative would have made it clear that it was optional,  and that Miss L agreed to 
take it. I dont think Ive got any particular reason to think the representative wouldnt have 
made this clear or obtained  Miss Ls agreement to the purchase.
I have seen a copy of Miss Ls mortgage  declaration document which  Miss L has signed. 
There is one section  for the mortgage  itself and a further section entitled TMPP and which  
says the following declaration will apply to any application that you make  for a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan which  indicates to me that Miss L had applied  for the policy.
With everything Ive said in mind, what I have  doesnt persuade me that BoS didnt give   
Miss L a choice about taking the PPI. Also, Ive nothing to suggest  she didnt agree to the 
policy. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Miss L knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. But its understandable  why 
Miss L might not recall this now. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS say that it gave  advice during the sale. Miss L hasnt been able to give us any 
recollection about this. But from what we know about how BoS conducted sales around this 
time, I think its most  likely that advice was provided during this sale. I say this because this 
was an in-branch sale and the screenshots I have referred to above  indicate that the BoS 
Ref: DRN27273685representative looked to see whether Miss L was eligible for the policy  and it is the sort of 
information gathering that I would expect to see for an advised sale.  And Miss L hasnt  been  
able to give me anything contrary to consider.
This means  BoS had to advise  Miss L with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss L. It seems  Miss L cant remember clearly what happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about     
Miss Ls financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser  took 
steps to establish whether Miss L would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered whether Miss L had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss L given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss L met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss L had a need for the policy  Miss L would not have received any sick pay if she 
was unable to work  due to illness, her redundancy benefits are likely to be limited 
and she didnt have  any savings  she could fall back on. The policy would have 
helped Miss L manage the consequences if she was unable to work. And Miss L was 
solely responsible  for the mortgage  repayments.  
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss L. There  
was nothing about Miss Ls employment  or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding the pre-existing medical condition Miss L has told 
us about  the back pain she suffered from in around 1994   but Miss L had 
managed the pain with non-prescription medicine, hadnt  taken any time off from 
work and didnt tell us of any recurrence. So, I dont consider this was an ongoing 
condition. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Miss Ls 
circumstances. The policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to Miss Ls 
home and the potential  consequences should  Miss L be unable to make the 
repayments on a loan secured against  her house. 
Ref: DRN27273686Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Miss L sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss L was given a broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss L was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss L would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss L agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss L, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Miss L all of the information  she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ls representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ls representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss L has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
Ref: DRN27273687what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Miss L? To what extent did Miss L suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss L. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss L 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss L 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss L, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Miss L would  have acted  differently, or whether she would  have  taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Miss L says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss L had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ls circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss L knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told her the exact premium  at the point    
Miss L applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Miss L would have been told 
the cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she 
might have raised that with BoS at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss L would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Miss L would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Miss Ls expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Ref: DRN27273688Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to a condition which  had been diagnosed  by, or 
for which treatment and/or  advice had been  suggested by, a registered medical 
practitioner during  the 12 month  period before the start date of the policy and which  
recurred within 12 months of the start date or a condition  whether diagnosed or not 
for which significant substantive symptoms were experienced or for which  
investigations had been commenced by a registered medical practitioner during the 
12 month period  before the start date which recurred within 12 months of the start 
date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss L be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss L pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss L from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Miss Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss L was eligible  for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Miss L wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss L didnt have  any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss L might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to    
Miss L from taking out the policy, Miss L, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons 
to take it out.
If Miss L had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Miss L was unable (through disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN27273689BoS may not have told Miss L that any claim she made would be limited to a 24-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but she 
didnt have any other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss L would still have thought a policy that paid 
up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss L be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Miss L was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss L 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Ls representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss L would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss L believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss L in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
Ref: DRN272736810policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Miss L compensation,  as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss L thinks BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Miss L, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2003 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ls representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find BoS negligently misrepresented  the contract to Miss L and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss L in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2727368