K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc unfairly debited his account  without 
his knowledge  and then recorded negative markers on his credit file.
background 
In August  2018, six transactions credited Mr Ws credit card account. They totalled 
£1090. But in September,  following a chargeback request from the senders bank, the 
transactions were  reversed without Mr W being told.
When Mr W complained,  Capital One said it could  not have defended the chargeback  
and that was why the funds were returned. Based on the information provided  to it from 
the senders bank, it subsequently entered a fraud  marker on Mr Ws credit  file  and 
when no payment was received towards  the outstanding balance, it then recorded a 
default marker against him and closed  his account.
Capital One did not uphold his complaint,  so Mr W brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that the fraud  marker had been unfairly entered   so she asked
Capital One to remove this and to award  Mr W £100 in compensation for the distress  it 
had caused.
Mr W did not agree  with the investigator. He thought the offer of compensation was low 
and wanted to know why Capital One was not going to restore  his account.  He also 
wanted to be compensated for the loss of potential  employment opportunities.  He  said he 
had been turned down  for jobs because  of the marker on his credit  file.
The matter  was passed to me for a final decision on Mr Ws complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I can deal with the fraud marker, for the same  reasons as the investigator has identified, I 
agree that this fraud marker  should be removed. There  is very little to add to that part of 
the complaint.
Turning to the debiting of Mr Ws account,  I think Capital  One should have informed Mr W 
that it had received  a chargeback request and should have allowed him the opportunity 
to respond to the request.
The sender  who was making the request was Mr Ws former partner and when Capital  One 
checked Mr Ws account, it could  see that there had been previous credits  from the same  
account in the previous months. In the circumstances, had Mr W been  given the 
opportunity to respond, the outcome may well have  been  different here.
I know  Capital One has said that it had no option  but to return  the funds but that cant  be 
right. And I remind  myself  it told this service that the reason for the repayment was because  
Mr W had provided  a different reason for the credits  to Capital One and a different one to 
this service.
Ref: DRN22958172So, based on what I have  seen, I do not think Capital One has treated  Mr W fairly and so I
uphold his complaint.
With regards Mr Ws submissions in relation to employment opportunities, I have seen 
nothing in evidence  to suggest that any lost work was due to the marker on his credit file and 
so I make no reward in relation to that.
Finally, with regards to Mr Ws account  being  restored, this is not a matter within  the 
jurisdiction of this service.  Who Capital One decides to offer its services  to is a matter  for 
Capital One and is not a decision  which I can interfere with.
my final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe)  Plc must:
-re-credit Mr Ws account with the six transactions  and readjust the account to 
the position it would have been in if these chargebacks had not been returned;
-remove any adverse information  held on Mr Ws credit file in relation to any default;
-remove the fraud marker from Mr Ws credit  file;
-pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2295817