K821x#15complaint
Mr L missed a payment  on a repayment plan with NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) but it never 
told him this would void the agreement.  
background
Mr L tells us this problem with Aqua has made him unwell and he has had to take time off 
work. There were also problems with Aqua logging his complaint. And he wants  the default  
removed from his credit record.
Aqua said it hadnt  done anything wrong. It said itd set up a no fee arrangement  on 26 
November 2018  to make payments of £87 for three months. Mr L made  a payment of £90 on 
26 November but on 19 December he phoned  to say he couldnt make a similar  payment 
and was advised to pay what he could afford.  He paid £30. It said he shouldve  been told if 
he didnt make the agreed payment  the no fee agreement would be broken and fees would 
be applied  again.  
It told us it cancelled the arrangement made  with Mr L as he missed the second agreed 
payment in December  2018. But due to his medical  issues his account  has been brought  
back to its Customer Care  Team from a debt recovery agent. It said Mr L complained  to it in 
January 2019.  It upheld  his complaint, refunded  interest  and charges from 30 November 
2018 and paid him £70 compensation for issues arising from its customer  service. Since the 
involvement of this Service it increased  its offer to £100.
Our investigator thought Aqua had dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly.  It had admitted liability  
for its mistake and he could see itd refunded  interest and charges of £309.17. But he didnt 
think Aqua  had done anything wrong when it defaulted  Mr Ls account.
Mr L wasnt happy. He said if hed known he had to pay £80 a month he wouldve paid it. 
And Aqua has admitted  it didnt tell him. And he didnt agree with our investigators view 
about the default.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the phone call Mr L had with our investigator. And Ive considered all the 
points Mr L made in his emails. 
Aqua sent Mr L a letter about the payment  agreement on 26 November 2018. It tells him to 
phone Aqua if hes not able to make the payments. He did that. But the agent didnt tell Mr L 
what would  happen  if he didnt pay the second monthly agreed amount. Its refunded interest  
and charges and has now offered Mr L a total of £100 compensation. Mr L says this isnt 
enough. He says that because it didnt tell him, its the fault of Aqua he owes them a lot of 
money. And its Aquas fault his account has been  defaulted.
I can tell from Mr Ls phone  call how frustrated he is about this situation. He is upset  
because he says if hed known he had to pay the agreed monthly payment he wouldve done 
so. And Aqua  has apologised  that its agent  didnt make this clear. But I dont think thats a 
reason for Mr L to stop making any payments. 
Ref: DRN23917832Mr Ls account was in arrears from 1 October  2018,  and he hasnt made a payment after the 
end of December.  Aqua issued a default  notice at the beginning of February 2019 which 
explained what he should do to avoid further  action being taken by Aqua including the 
sharing of the details of his account with credit reference agencies. But Mr L said he wouldnt 
make a payment  until his complaint was resolved. We wouldnt expect a bank to suspend 
payments in this situation during the complaints process. So although I know Mr L will be 
very disappointed with my decision, I cant fairly find Aqua did anything wrong when it 
defaulted his account
I know Mr L thinks Aqua shouldnt have done  this as it didnt tell him the reduced monthly 
payment would bring his agreement to an end but he still had an obligation to make 
payments. He didnt  do so even after receiving the default  notice.  And as Aqua  has an 
obligation to accurately report the history of such an account I cant  ask it to remove  the 
default from Mr Ls credit record.
Mr Ls upset about  the problems  he says he had with Aqua  when  he tried to log his 
complaint. But I cant  tell Aqua how it should  deal with and handle complaints. Its complaint 
handling is not, under our rules, what is called  a regulated activity. If Mr L wants to take his 
concerns about  Aquas complaint handling  procedures further  he will need to refer his 
concerns to the Financial Conduct  Authority.
I can appreciate that Mr Ls vulnerability means that he will be very upset  with my decision. 
And Im sorry that this situation has made him ill. But for the reasons Ive given I think Aqua 
has dealt fairly and reasonable with his complaint.  And I cant fairly  ask Aqua to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My decision  is that to put matters right NewDay Ltd must increase its compensation to Mr L 
for the trouble and upset  its caused from £70 to £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2391783