K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the decision by Phoenix Life Limited to decline his claim for total and 
permanent disability benefit. He says Phoenix  failed to appoint medical assessors with 
specific knowledge of his condition, which meant it reached false  conclusions  about his 
incapacity.     
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr W wants Phoenix  to recognise that he has a valid claim.  
background
Mr W took out a protection policy with Swiss Life UK Plc in August 2000. The policy  has 
since been taken  over by Phoenix. It offers life and critical illness  cover (termed  serious  
illness cover) for a 20-year term with an initial  sum assured of £100,000.  The policy also 
includes total and permanent disability (TPD)  benefit. The sum assured and premium 
increase annually, in line with the Retail Price Index.   
In March 2017, Mr W noticed discomfort in his legs and within two weeks  had become  
unable to walk without  assistance. He was referred  for immediate investigations.  By the 
following month, he underwent surgery on his spine.  Sadly, this surgery left Mr W with nerve  
damage in addition to his existing spinal stenosis; since the surgery  he requires full-time use 
of two walking  aids. These are also adapted  as Mr W additionally suffers  from arthritis  in his 
hands and other joints.  
Thereafter, Mr W underwent substantial physiotherapy.  He was provided a wheelchair for 
any walking beyond 50 metres, made  a successful  claim  for welfare benefits and he was 
provided with a disability parking badge. 
In July 2018, Mr W made a claim to Phoenix for TPD benefit. For a successful claim  the 
policyholder must be unable to perform at least three of five activities of daily living (ADLs ), 
as determined by the policy. In his medical assessment form, he said he was unable to 
complete three of five tasks (transferring, washing, dressing, feeding  and toileting). On 
reflection, this was revised to four by Mr W, with feeding the only activity he can complete  
without assistance.  
There were several delays with the claim assessment. Phoenix offered Mr W £100 on two 
occasions because  of these delays, which Mr W accepted.
Phoenix concluded it had insufficient information  to assess  Mr Ws circumstances  against  
the policy terms as Mr W hadnt seen his consultant since 2017. So it firstly wrote to Mr Ws 
GP for a medical report. However, Phoenixs Chief Medical Officer  felt there was still 
insufficient medical information  regarding  Mr Ws capacity.  
So, it asked  that Mr W undergo an independent medical examination to provide further 
evidence upon  which to review the claim.  Mr W met with the assessor in February 2019. 
The assessor made note of all of Mr Ws combined conditions,  including  his spinal 
conditions, nerve damage, arthritis and a previous  hip replacement. The report  found  that 
while Mr W was unable to perform one of the five tasks (dressing), he wasnt  prevented  
from completing the others by his disabilities.
Ref: DRN23069592In April 2019, Phoenix told Mr W it couldnt pay the claim  as the evidence  did not support 
him being unable to perform at least three of the activities.  
Mr W complained.  He said the assessor failed to ask sufficiently detailed questions. He also 
noted:
the assessor concluded he could perform the washing task yet accepted he couldnt 
reach his feet or lower  limbs   this is contradictory;
the feeding  activity is unfairly worded   it should not be whether he can eat food 
once prepared, but whether he can prepare  food;
the activity regarding the use of the toilet was not properly considered;
Mr W found this matter difficult to discuss, but he in fact cannot properly use the toilet  
because of his nerve  damage;
he suffers from hygiene and incontinence issues and should have made this clear  
from the outset;
the circumstances of the assessment  did not capture the difficulties he has in 
transferring  this activity was not properly measured;
one part of the report noting  conflicting  incapacity made it bring  his integrity  into 
question;
the assessor was not properly qualified to assess his condition  or incapability;
a differing policy he checked has other activities of daily living such  as walking, 
bending and climbing   all of which he cannot  do;
Phoenixs policy terms are unreasonably restrictive.   
Phoenix confirmed  in May 2019 that it was unwilling to change  the claims decision. It said 
the chosen assessor was suitably qualified and the medical report  it had provided showed  
Mr W didnt meet the TPD criteria. 
Mr W remained unhappy. He firstly disagreed  that he didnt meet the criteria set out by the 
policy  he said he was unable to complete at least three of the ADLs  and he was best 
placed to provide a view on his capabilities, as these fluctuate over any given day. Mr W 
contended that the assessment over a constrained period was therefore  unfair.  
Further, he said that the wording of activities of daily living  in the policy terms was too 
limiting, as it did not allow for a policyholders  particular  circumstances.  He said if a claim 
was assessed  on its own merits  there  are numerous activities  of daily living that he can no 
longer do. 
Mr W also said Phoenix ought to have appointed a neurologist to assess  his claim as any 
other medical professional is not sufficiently  competent to assess his situation.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators. 
The investigator said he thought Phoenix  was right to refuse  the claim. He believed the 
medical evidence  to have been  obtained  fairly. And he agreed with Phoenix  that Mr W was 
able to perform four of the five ADLs, either independently or with the assistance of an aid. 
Mr W disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. He provided a 
detailed appeal of the outcome. I havent repeated  it in full here,  but I have reviewed the 
complete submission. In summary,  Mr W says:
Ref: DRN23069593the person  sent to assess him had physical limitations herself regarding her weight;
he does not believe the assessor  was properly able to make an objective view of his 
incapacity now, compared to his previous sporty lifestyle;
he submitted a four-page letter of appeal  to Phoenix on 9 April 2019  and feels  this 
has been disregarded by the investigator;
if it is accepted he cannot dress  himself, how can he possibly  wash himself;
washing was only considered in respect  of his upper  body, but he cannot reach to 
wash his lower body;
he was not observed putting on socks and shoes despite the report  saying he can;
he has now provided NHS guidance from 2007 about bowel management following 
spinal cord injury;
though it was not properly discussed with the assessor, he is incontinent regarding 
passing urine and stools  and left with persistent issues  with hygiene;
he accepts he didnt  make his issues with incontinence clear at the time of the 
assessment;
the proposals of a personal bidet and a long-handled  toilet  wipe will make  no 
difference to him  his issue is the inability to properly pass stools because  of nerve 
damage;
he cannot transfer to low chairs or benches;
he also (infrequently) falls out of bed;
he has required a hoist to be able to access a swimming pool  this is a clear 
example of how he is not able to properly transfer from his bed to a chair or 
wheelchair;
if the assessor had access to his medical  records, a better assessment could have 
been provided.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator. I know this will be disappointing for Mr W, but I dont find 
Phoenix to have acted  unfairly in refusing the claim. Ill explain  my reasons below. 
I was very sorry to learn  of Mr Ws decline  in his health; I do appreciate  he suffers  from 
debilitating conditions  that greatly  affect  his quality of life. Whether a disability or combined 
disabilities meets  the definition  of TPD for the purpose of his policy wording  depends on the 
specific nature of Mr Ws capacity. That differs from any review undertaken for welfare 
benefits  these may use similar assessments, but they are measured against differing 
criteria.   
I know Mr W felt our investigator  did not review his letter of 9 April 2019 to Phoenix regarding 
his specific incapacity  for four of the ADLs. This letter is on our case file, and I have 
considered this, along with all the other evidence.  
I note that Mr W has made several points  about the fairness of his policy wording. I hope it 
will assist  him if I explain  further about  how these policies operate.  
Most insurers base their critical illness policy provisions around guidance issued from the 
Association of British Insurers.  At the time of Mr Ws policy application, the most  recent  
guidance was the Statement of Best Practice for Critical Illness  Cover  first issued by the 
ABI in April 1999  (and every few years thereafter). 
Ref: DRN23069594The guidance provides standardised model wording for three core conditions  of cancer, 
heart attack  and stroke  these must  be included  by every insurer. Beyond  this, insurers  are 
free to choose  which illnesses and conditions (TPD  being one) to include when offering 
critical illness insurance. In 1999,  the option  open  to Swiss Life was to choose  any ADLs  it 
deemed appropriate.
However, the insurer has based its cover on the model wording still used by the ABI (in the 
most recent 2014  and 2018  guidance), with one amendment   combining two transferring  
tasks (getting in and out of bed and getting between  rooms) into one transferring ADL.  
Further, the ABI code uses wording which includes a specified age. The reason for this is 
due to potential  retirement. An insurer can set out alternative wording for TPD benefit  
beyond a specified age, because it will become less likely that a person will be in 
employment once  they exceed certain ages. 
Though Mr W suggests otherwise, it is correct for Phoenix to assess his claim against the 
policy terms issued when  the cover commenced  in 2000. I recognise  the passage  of time, 
but the wording  forms a contract between the parties and is absolute. To apply latitude to the 
wording could be disadvantageous   for example if an insurer has become more stringent 
about certain claims in recent years where medical advances have reduced severity. This 
could mean  an older policy pays out where  a newer  one doesnt.  For that reason a claim 
must be measured against the terms accepted by a policyholder. 
In any event, as Ive said above,  the wording of the terms is very similar to the 2014 and 
2018 ABI guidance, as it contains the same  ADLs.  
Mr W has questioned why his policy contains  wording which changes as at age 60 and why 
his policy  does not contain more  generalised activities  of daily living  such  as walking. If Mr 
W remains unhappy with how these  policies are worded, that is a matter for the ABI or the 
regulator (the Financial  Conduct Authority).  Im not able to interfere in the policy wording 
chosen, beyond  considering its overall fairness.  And I have no reason to consider the 
wording unfair when it is based  on suggested guidance from the ABI.  
I appreciate in Mr Ws case  he remains  in full time employment, with many  adaptations 
because of his disabilities.  But, since  he was aged  over 60 at the time of the claim, Phoenix 
has reasonably  assessed  him against the ADLs TPD definition, not the occupational one. 
The policy terms say:
Disability
The life assured must be totally and permanently disabled:
1)On or before the life assureds 60th birthday  total disability shall mean that due to 
his illness or injury he is unable to perform his own occupation as stated in the 
schedule.
2)After the life assureds 60th birthday total disability shall mean  that there are at 
least three of the following  activities which he is unable to perform without the 
assistance of another person:
Ref: DRN23069595a) Washing - the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting  into 
or out of the bath or shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means
b) Dressing  - the ability to put on, take off, secure  and unfasten all garments 
and, as appropriate, any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances
c) Feeding - the ability to feed oneself  once  food has been prepared and 
made available
d) Toileting  - the ability  to use the lavatory or otherwise  manage  bowel and 
bladder functions so as to maintain a satisfactory  level of personal hygiene
e) Transferring - the ability to move  from a bed to an upright chair or 
wheelchair and vice versa
3) In the Company's opinion disability must be permanent.
Mr W says he feels  that Phoenixs choice of medical  assessor  was inappropriate. He 
believes it was not properly qualified to assess his conditions. I disagree with that. The 
person that met with him was a qualified  consultant  of occupational therapy. That is an 
appropriate field for a clinical  professional assessing  a persons functional abilities.  
I see no reason to discount  the assessors medical opinion. She was not making a diagnosis  
of Mr W - as would be the remit of a neurologist  or spinal surgeon. The assessor was 
required to ascertain Mr Ws level of capability against the ADLs set out within the policy 
terms and she did so in the report received on 8 March 2019.  I expect an occupational 
therapist to be able to make such conclusions, and Ive seen no objective evidence  that the 
assessor was unqualified or unable to do so. 
I will now go on to look at the policy terms as they apply to Mr Ws circumstances. 
For the avoidance of doubt, neither party  contends that Mr Ws disability is not permanent. 
The assessor specifically  confirms Mr Ws condition  will not improve.  
Mr W submits he cannot perform four of the above  ADLs  the only ADL he concedes  he 
can do without assistance of another person is feeding. I know  Mr W does say that the 
feeding ADL is an unfair provision, but I have  addressed this above. I am not able to infer 
another meaning to the ADL  it is set out in clear terms.  The wording for feeding is almost  
identical to that proposed  by the ABI. 
I realise Mr W struggles if he is left alone, but the requirement of the wording is based on 
having help from another  person. Mr W can feed himself when food has been prepared  for 
him, so it is clear he hasnt met this ADL. 
Similarly, both parties accept Mr W cannot perform the dressing ADL because  while  he can 
mostly dress independently, he is unable to put on his own support stockings due to the 
difficulties presented with back  pain when  doing  so. The assessor noted that support aids 
available for this purpose were ineffective and she accepted this was not a task that Mr W 
could do without a person  helping him.  
In order to have  a claim payment met, Mr Ws circumstances would need to be such  that he 
could not complete two of the three  remaining activities  (washing, transferring or toileting) 
without the assistance of another  person.  I should note that the wording does not preclude a 
person from completing  an ADL with a manual aid  for example, having a grab rail in a bath 
or shower.  The assistance  is limited to another person.  
Ref: DRN23069596Since the time of the assessment, Mr W has provided this service with significant further 
detail regarding his inability to complete the toileting ADL.  This evidence wasnt given  to the 
assessor, and I accept this is because  Mr W felt embarrassed about incontinence.
I believe this further evidence is indicative that Mr W cannot complete the toileting ADL,  as 
he has consistence and permanent hygiene issues as a result  of being unable  to properly 
undergo effective bowel management. But, even if I accept that Mr W meets this ADL, I dont 
believe the evidence  supports he meets either of the other two remaining ADLs,  and Mr W 
would need to meet another one as a minimum.  
Looking at the washing task  Mr W was not observed completing the task, but the report 
noted he could  wash his upper body and hair by holding  on to a shower with the other  hand.  
He was also recorded as being able to climb into a bath (with a shower  over)  using a ledge 
for support. The report goes on to say that in a sitting  position  Mr W was observed  to touch 
his heel. The assessor felt Mr W would also be assisted from using grab rails in his shower 
and a shower board. 
Though he uses aids to climb  in and out of a bath, Mr W says he cannot wash his feet or dry 
them  on the same basis, he cannot put on his shoes or support  stockings.  I have no 
reason to doubt Mr W. But, there is a difference in the conclusions  of the assessor  in respect  
of washing  and dressing. 
The assessor believes that with aids Mr W could dress himself,  for example, he could put on 
slip-on shoes using a long-handled  shoe horn. And, in sitting on a step he could touch  his 
heel to place on socks, as well as use a sock aid, shoe  horn and elasticated  shoes.  What  the 
report said was that the specific  requirement  to wear support stockings rendered  him unable 
to complete the ADL, because they are compressed  and notoriously  difficult to put on, even 
for those  who are able-bodied.  
In the case of washing and drying  himself, there are suggested aids Mr W could  use such as 
a long-handled brush.  This differs from the dressing ADL where the assessor  noted  any 
aids that did exist were likely to be ineffectual as it is a difficult task (and Mr W now explains 
that his osteoarthritis also affects  his hands). At the time of reviewing  this complaint, I have 
not seen any objective evidence that Mr W would  be unable  to wash  himself with any 
available aid and that he could only do so with the help of another  person.  
Similarly, I havent seen any objective evidence that Mr W cannot  complete the transferring 
task unless aided by another person. The report says Mr [W] was observed  to complete a 
bed and chair transfer independently. I realise that just because  Mr W could do so at that 
time on that particular day does  not indicate  he can do so freely or without aid on other 
occasions. I know Mr W has fallen and broken a finger  at a time when he says he was 
unable to transfer out of bed in the morning. But I have to look at that evidence against  the 
policy terms above, and they require a person  to be totally and permanently unable  to 
perform the specific ADL in order for a claim payment  to be made.  
Ref: DRN23069597The 2014  ABI guidance gives some helpful wording as to what is required by ADLs, such as 
those included in Mr Ws policy. It is a very high bar as the claim payment is for the 
circumstances where  a policyholder is unable to look after yourself ever again . It goes on 
to explain what that means:
The insured person must need the help or supervision of another  person and be 
unable to perform the task on their own, even with the use of special equipment 
routinely available to help and having taken any appropriate prescribed medication.
I recognise that the 2014 guidance  is not a binding requirement of the policy  terms. Though  I 
do not underestimate the seriousness of Mr Ws circumstances, I have included  it above to 
give Mr W an understanding of the nature of total and permanent disability that is assessed 
against ADLs. 
I can see that the assessor recommended  Mr W ask his GP for an occupational therapy 
assessment as this could  provide him with assistive devices for activities such  as 
transferring. If Mr W obtains further  observations or evidence of his incapacity(such as being 
unable to use specified aids), he is free to put this to Phoenix at any time. That this 
complaint has been rejected doesnt preclude  him from making  a further  claim during  the life 
of his policy. Nor does  it bar Mr W from seeking further medical evidence himself. 
If Mr W does present  new evidence of incapacity or has a change to his circumstances, it 
may be the case that Phoenix could order a further  independent examination or report  from 
any new attending medical professionals. As the complaint stands currently,  Mr W does not 
appear to meet three  of the five ADLs  set out in his policy terms and therefore Phoenix was 
fair in refusing the claim.   
my final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Ws situation, I do not find Phoenix to have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in refusing his claim, or in appointing  the chosen occupational therapist that 
met him to complete  her assessment.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2306959