K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Westerby Trustee  Services Limited (Westerby)  didnt take reasonable 
care when accepting  the transfer of his personal pension into its Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) platform. In particular, he thinks that Westerby  shouldnt  have accepted  
introductions from his adviser  and failed to carry out adequate due diligence  on the company 
that he invested in  Hedge Capital Investment Group Plc (HCI).
background
In 2011, Mr M was exploring  options for his existing pension investment which  he didnt think 
was performing well. He came across  HCI which he thought would be a good alternative  
investment.
Hedge Capital  Investment
HCI was a newly formed company. Details about  the company were  set out in its Information  
Memorandum and Private Placing Memorandum. The following are some relevant extracts  
from these documents:
Introduction
Hedge Capital  Investments  Limited was incorporated in June 2011  with the aim of creating 
an investment fund to provide seed or first round funding to unlisted UK companies.
Investment strategy
The Company will provide seed or first round funding to unlisted  UK companies with unique  
or exceptional products or services. The Company will not target  any particular sector, 
however the Board has significant investment experience in property  and technology 
companies. The focus will be on supporting stable businesses with sustainable  cash flows 
and proven business models that have a potential for growth
Fundraising proposition
The Company is initially proposing to raise up to £10 million  through the issue of 3% 
convertible redeemable preference shares to SIPP providers.
In addition to the 3% fixed coupon,  the Company will also distribute  up to 50% of its 
distributable profits each year to the holders of the Preference Shares (the Variable 
Distribution). It is not anticipated  that the Company will make a Variable  Distribution during 
the first year
The Preference Shares will be redeemable at the discretion of the Company.
In time the Company intends to provide an exit for its shareholders through an IPO.
Potential PLUS Listing
The directors are in early discussions with professional advisers with a view to listing HCIs 
shares on the PLUS market. This would provide a market for investors to buy and sell 
shares. These discussions are in very early  stages and it is unlikely that any listing  will take 
place before Spring  2012.
Ref: DRN20042542Risk Factors:
An investment in HCI may not be suitable  for all recipients of this document.  Accordingly,  
investors are strongly advised to consult an investment adviser authorised  under the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
An investment in HCI is only suitable for investors  capable of evaluating the risks and merits 
of such investment and who have  sufficient recourses to bear any loss which may result 
from the investment
Although the management is experienced, HCI has no history in this marketplace upon  
which an evaluation of HCI and its prospects can be based. HCIs business  must also be 
considered in light of the risks, expenses and problems  frequently encountered by 
companies at any early stage of development. Failure to achieve predicted returns on 
investments may result in revenues growing more slowly than anticipated.
the involvement of AISA
In order to invest pension  funds into HCI, Mr M needed to set up a SIPP. Mr M says he was 
introduced to a regulated firm, AISA Direct  Limited (AISA), by a business called Money  
Helpers. AISAs advice to Mr M was that he shouldnt transfer his pension away  from his 
existing scheme. But Mr M decided to proceed  with the transfer  anyway and AISA sent a 
completed SIPP application form for Mr M to Westerby in November 2011.  AISA  was named 
on the form as Mr Ms adviser and its fees were  payable to it from the pension  fund.
the role of Westerby
Westerby is a SIPP provider and administrator.  It was regulated  by the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA)  at the time of the events complained about  now the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).  It was  and still is  authorised to arrange (bring about) deals in 
investments; deal in investments as principal;  establish, operate  and wind up a personal 
pension scheme; and make arrangements with a view to transactions  in investments.
A regulated firm, KMR Financial Management LLP (KMR) first introduced  HCI as a 
potential investment to Westerby  in around July 2011. Westerby  accepted HCI into its SIPP 
a short  time later.
After receiving Mr Ms application, Westerby set up a SIPP for him. Westerby took receipt of 
around £30,000 from Mr Ms previous pension into his new SIPP. And after receiving a 
completed Unlisted  Share Purchase  Questionnaire for Mr M in December 2011, it invested  
around £27,000 from his SIPP in shares in HCI. Unknown  to Westerby,  Mr M received a loan 
back from an entity linked to HCI as a result  of his SIPP  investment. The loan was for the 
sum of around £11,400.
Westerby accepted  around 20 client investments into HCI between September 2011 and 
January 2012   all of whom were introduced by AISA.  In February  2012,  Westerby says it 
requested sight of one of AISAs  suitability  letters for a potential  new client.  Westerby says it 
became concerned because AISAs written advice was for the client  to not switch his 
pension but it learned that the client was verbally  told by AISA to ignore this and proceed 
with the switch. Because of this, Westerby says it ended its relationship with AISA  and 
ceased to accept any new introductions from it.
Ref: DRN20042543HCI goes into administration
In March 2012, The Pensions Regulator took action with regard to occupational pension  
schemes that had become involved with HCI.
Notices were issued  by The Pensions Regulator after this time relating to their involvement 
in appointing an independent  trustee  for occupational schemes  where the original trustees  
had facilitated  investments  in HCI. These  set out that there was evidence  that:
oBetween October 2011 and March  2012 around 476 members of these 
occupational schemes had invested around  £19m in HCI and that £6.5m had 
been paid back  to pension scheme members as unauthorised loans with a 
further sum of £2.75m  being  used for investments in 58 plots  of land for teak 
tree plantations in Brazil, agricultural land in Florida and shares in music 
production and mobile learning  platform companies.
oAt least one occupational scheme  had invested  around £3 million  by 
November 2011 and that some  of these funds  had already been recycled  as 
loans to pension  scheme members.
oThat one of the occupational schemes  had taken  counsels advice in 
November 2011. Counsel had warned the trustees that the HCI investments 
were contrary to occupational pension scheme  legislation and that there  was 
a risk that loans  proposed by HCI were  unauthorised payments.
oThere was a lack of clarity about  the use and whereabouts  of funds received 
by HCI. 
oHCI had been  set up in a manner  where  those operating it could benefit if it 
did well, but would  only distribute profits to investors at their discretion. 
HCI went into administration a short time later. Mr M has received only a small proportion of 
his investment back from the administrator  and it looks unlikely that hell get anything  more.  
He thinks Westerby are responsible for his loss.
provisional decisions
After the matter was referred to our service it was looked at by one of our investigators  who 
did not uphold  Mr Ms complaint. I was then asked to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2018  also not upholding  Mr Ms complaint. In 
summary, I said that Westerby ought to have had some concerns about dealings with AISA  
as it was aware that AISA had been giving limited advice  to its customers. But I said that, in 
the particular facts of this case, the limited advice to Mr M from AISA was that he shouldnt  
transfer his pension to a SIPP. And Westerby spoke to Mr M to ensure he understood the 
nature of the investment.  So, I didnt  think Westerby had acted  unfairly in accepting Mr Ms 
introduction by AISA.
I also said that I didnt  think Westerby had treated Mr M unfairly by accepting  the HCI 
investment into its SIPP platform. I said that as a newly  incorporated company there were 
few checks that it could make on HCI. But it could be satisfied that it was a registered UK 
Ref: DRN20042544based limited company  with UK directors,  that there was a regulated advice  firm involved 
and that there were  UK accountants and solicitors overseeing  matters.
I didnt agree with Mr M that there was an obvious  risk of pension liberation at the time 
Westerby accepted  the HCI investment into its SIPP. 
Following my first provisional  decision, I made further enquiries  of Westerby to ascertain 
more details about the due diligence it carried out on HCI and then issued a second  
provisional decision dated 20 June 2018 in which I said I intended  to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Essentially my findings were that:
There were  concerning features about the introduction by AISA, but that 
Westerby hadnt acted  unfairly  because it had taken  some  steps to explore 
this with Mr M.
But there were anomalous features  about  the HCI investment that ought to 
have led Westerby to make enquiries about it before accepting  it into Mr Ms 
SIPP. Westerby didnt make any such enquiries  as part of its due diligence   
or any enquires at all in fact. It simply relied on the HCI information 
memoranda. I didnt think that amounted to sufficient due diligence and I 
therefore did not consider that Westerby had acted  fairly and reasonably  in its 
dealings with Mr M. 
Had it made enquiries, it would have  identified that HCI had deviated  from the 
investment memoranda and was involved in unauthorised transactions.  
Alternatively, Westerby would  likely  have encountered reluctance from those 
who operated HCI to provide information about its use of funds. Both 
outcomes ought to have led to Westerby to conclude that it wouldnt be 
treating Mr M fairly by accepting the investment  into his SIPP. As such, I said 
that Westerby should compensate Mr M for his losses.
Westerbys submissions following the second  provisional  decision:
Westerby doesnt think its fair to uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary, it says:
My second provisional decision wrongly and retrospectively applies todays 
regulatory standards of SIPP operators. Whilst the regulations themselves havent  
changed, the FCA has over time clarified  what  due diligence  is expected of 
investments within a SIPP, including in submissions in recent  court cases. The 
standards of today  do not represent what would have  been good industry practice 
at the time Mr M made the investment in HCI. 
AISA received  an annual trail commission  from Mr Ms SIPP  fund. So it was 
reasonable to conclude  that AISA was providing  ongoing advice to Mr M. AISA was 
the party that was really responsible for Mr Ms losses and our service should be 
investigating a complaint  against  AISA not Westerby.
At the time of Mr Ms application  there  were  no indications  of any deficiencies in the 
advice hed received from AISA. Westerby didnt find out until after the issues  with 
Ref: DRN20042545HCI and The Pensions Regulator that ASIA was positioning itself as not providing 
advice. This wasnt previously disclosed to Westerby.
Even though  I had acknowledged that Westerby  highlighted concerns about HCI to 
Mr M, Westerby disagreed with my view that that there  were some  obvious further 
enquiries that Westerby could and should  have made of HCI. Westerby said that this 
is a personal opinion made with the benefit of hindsight. The primary focus of due 
diligence at that time was to ensure that all investments  were  permitted by HMRC. 
These obvious enquiries werent  highlighted by me in my initial provisional decision 
in which  I had said I didnt  intend  to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. If they had been  truly 
obvious, I ought  to have highlighted this in my initial  provisional  decision.
The Pension Regulator notices referred  to in my second provisional  decision were 
issued following a whistle blowing investigation.  The information  contained  within the 
notices was not publicly available until they were published after March  2012. So 
these documents  should not be used  as a basis for assessing what  Westerby  would  
have found out at the time of Mr Ms investment.
Its therefore unreasonable for Westerby to be held liable for Mr Ms losses  as the 
information in the notices  could only be known with hindsight and was not publically 
available information.  If this had been readily available information,  The Pension 
Regulator itself would have taken action  well in advance of appointing  the additional 
Trustee in March 2012.
The firm of accountants  and solicitors involved with HCI were both authorised by their 
industry regulators. 
It was not general  practice within the SIPP industry  to directly contact accountants 
and lawyers associated  with investments. Westerbys due diligence  is therefore not 
being evaluated against the practices in place at the time of Mr Ms application. 
During the course of this complaint, the accountants confirmed that they were 
involved with HCI and that they were  to carry out financial due diligence on the 
investments to be made  by the company. 
This confirms that Westerbys understanding of the role of the firm of accountants  at 
the time was correct.  And Westerbys decision to permit the investment into HCI 
wouldnt have been affected had it contacted the accountancy firm prior to Mr Ms 
investment. 
Westerby acknowledged  that the firm of accountants werent independent   as they 
were a shareholder of HCI. But, as a shareholder, they would have  a material interest 
in the companys success and thus would  be expected  to carry out a high level of 
due diligence. It was reasonable  at the time to expect that, while  HCIs business  
model (which included investments into start-ups) was stated to be high risk, they 
would ensure that this risk was mitigated as far as possible, to protect their own 
investment.
Even in respect  of the matters identified by me as being necessary for Westerby to 
establish prior to accepting HCI, Westerby did carry out sufficient due diligence. 
Ref: DRN20042546oWesterby understood the business  strategy for HCI and its proposed lending 
criteria from the information memoranda.  HCIs strategy was to provide seed 
or first round funding to unlisted UK companies.  The investments would be 
chosen by an investment  committee, initially comprised of the directors  of 
HCI. The accountants would undertake  full due diligence  on the investments 
and there were some details of the deal flow.
Westerby acknowledged  that it could have requested further information 
regarding the investment  criteria. However,  Westerby said that this wouldnt  
have had a material  effect on its decision to permit  the investment as it wasnt  
an investment expert or adviser and it wasnt Westerbys role to assess  
suitability.
The only reason why Westerby would have declined the investment based on 
the lending criteria would be if it revealed that loans would be made to SIPP 
members or connected parties. It was unlikely that this would have been the 
case, as it is clear that HCI went to some lengths  to hide this fact.
oThere was no reason to believe that HCI was likely to give rise to tax 
liabilities. Under HMRC  rules, unlisted shares  are a permitted investment 
within a Registered  Pension Scheme.  The fact that unauthorised payments 
(in the form of loans  to SIPP members) were later made by HCI could not 
have been determined at the time of Mr Ms investment.
oThere was no reason to doubt that HCI wasnt genuine or was part of a fraud 
or a scam. The company  was a genuine UK-based company. The directors 
and shareholders  of HCI included an FSA-authorised individual  and a firm of 
chartered accountants. It was reasonable to expect that such parties would 
act with due care and integrity and that they would disclose any facts  that 
would materially affect Westerbys decision to permit  the investment, namely 
the planned loans to SIPP  members.
oHCI could be valued and was a realisable  investment. Unlisted shares  tend to 
be medium to long term by their nature, with an exit strategy several years 
after the initial investment. The information  memorandum and the cover  letter  
from the accountants demonstrate that the exit strategy had been considered:  
by a listing of the shares on the PLUS market,  management buyout or trade 
sale. 
Mr M was aware of the risks of making  the investment and was insistent  that the 
investment should proceed, as he wanted to receive the loan from HCI. He chose not 
to make Westerby aware of the fact that he was going to receive  a loan from HCI; 
had he done so Westerby wouldnt have permitted the investment to proceed. It was 
therefore reasonable to conclude that had Westerby declined  to accept his SIPP or 
the investment,  Mr M would have been  signposted to one of the other occupational 
schemes named  by The Pensions Regulator as investing in the HCI companies and 
proceeded with the investment. Westerby provided evidence that another one of its 
customers later did exactly this when Westerby rejected her application for 
investment in HCI.
Mr M also responded to my second  provisional  decision. His main submissions were:
Ref: DRN20042547He agreed with the substance of my findings and felt that Westerby had 
misrepresented the level of due diligence that it had carried out on HCI. It failed to do 
very basic checks such as contacting the accountancy firm that had provided  the 
cover letter  with the information  memoranda.  Westerby could and should have 
prevented the problems that occurred by applying a level of due diligence  beyond  
merely saying that it didnt  ask the questions  because  they presumed  they already 
knew the answers.
By the time of his investment in HCI, Westerby had already facilitated investments in 
HCI by other customers. And HCIs stated aim was to raise  substantial funds by 
November 2011. So there was more  than enough potential data for Westerby  to 
conduct an audit  trail before allowing his investment.  Had it done so, Westerby  would 
have discovered  that HCI had already  started  to make loans that deviated from its 
stated business  plan. 
HCIs board of directors had limited  experience,  especially with pension  legislation.
A great deal more  due diligence was usually carried out by banks when assessing 
loans for new companies. 
Westerby ought to have brought to his attention  that HCI had been  introduced  to it by 
KMR and that one of the directors of KMR was also a director of HCI. Had Westerby 
done this, Mr M would never have proceeded with the investment because of the 
conflicts of interest.
The loan he received when he made the investment in HCI should  be disregarded for 
the purposes of the compensation payable to him by Westerby. The loan was 
structured as a completely separate matter to his pension  investment. Mr M would (if 
required) repay  this to the legal entity  responsible  for making the loan  that entity 
was separate  from HCI.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure both parties that Ive looked  at all of their submissions with care. In this 
decision I concentrate on the key arguments  and evidence that are material  to my 
determination of the complaint.
I want to preface my findings by saying that, contrary  to Mr Ms view,  Ive seen no evidence  
that Westerby wished  to exploit Mr M or that it has been untransparent either  at the time of 
the SIPP investment  or during the handling of his complaint.
But, Ive not been persuaded to change my decision to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
In reaching a decision on what is a fair and reasonable outcome  of this complaint, the key 
questions Ive asked  myself are:
did Westerby act fairly and reasonably by accepting Mr Ms introduction by AISA?
Ref: DRN20042548did Westerby act fairly and reasonably by accepting the HCI investment into Mr Ms 
SIPP?
What would Westerby have  discovered and concluded if it had made further 
enquiries at the time of Mr Ms investment?
Having considered these questions, my conclusion is that Westerby  didnt  act fairly and 
reasonably in accepting the HCI investment into Mr Ms SIPP.
I then considered the question of what Mr M would have done if Westerby  had refused to 
accept his application to hold this investment  in his SIPP. My conclusion on this point is that 
its unlikely that Mr M wouldve been  able to proceed with the HCI investment by another  
route. As such, its fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate  Mr M for the losses hes 
suffered from making the HCI investment.
Ill now explain this in more detail and start by setting out the relevant considerations. 
relevant considerations
In accordance with my duty under section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA), I must determine  this complaint  by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case . As Ive previously explained, when 
considering what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint, Im required 
to take into account  relevant considerations which include: law and regulations;  regulators 
rules, guidance  and standards; and codes  of practice. Im also required to take into account,  
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
I consider the following  to be relevant  considerations in this complaint.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Clients  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
clients and treat them fairly.
In British Bankers  Association, R (on the application of) v The Financial Services Authority & 
Anor [2001] EWHM 999 (Admin) (20 April 2011) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added.  The Princples always have  to be complied  with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them  and cannot  be used to contradict them. They  are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover.  The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is 
Ref: DRN20042549inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment  specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach  a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had 
been produced  by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which  find expression in 
the Principles,  whoever  formulated them. They are of the essence of what  is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
In the recent decision of Berkeley Burke Sipp Administration Ltd v Financial Ombudsman 
Service Limited [2018] EWHC 2878  (Admin) (30 October 2018), Jacobs J said of section  228 
FSMA:
Under that section,  it is for the Ombudsman  to decide what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the case.  Here, [the ombudsman who issued the decision in 
the case that was the subject of judicial review] paid regard (as DISP  3.6.4R requires  
him to do) to the relevant regulators rules, namely Principles 2 and 6. The decision 
as to how those  Principles apply "in all the circumstances of the case" must  be a 
matter for him
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
time. They provide  the overarching framework for regulation and must always be complied 
with by businesses.  As such, I need  to have regard to them  when deciding  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Rule 2.1.1 in the Code of Business Sourcebook  (COBS) is also relevant and says that:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the clients best interests rule).
I note that Westerby  has said that I didnt make  specific  reference to COBS  2.1.1  in my first 
provisional decision. But, I think its right for me to take this into account in making this 
decision as it was a relevant  regulatory  rule at the time of the events. 
The FSA and the FCA have made  a number  of publications which remind SIPP operators of 
their obligations  and set out how they might  achieve the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles. 
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2009 (the 2009 report).
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2012 (the 2012 report).
A guide for Self-Invested Personal  Pensions  (SIPP) operators published by the 
FCA in October 2013 (the 2013 guidance). 
Ref: DRN200425410A letter from the FCAs Director of Supervision sent to the CEOs of all SIPP  
operators in July 2014 (the 2014 Dear CEO letter).
I think these are all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint. The following are 
some relevant sections  of these documents.
The 2009  report  included  the following:
We are concerned by a relatively widespread misunderstanding among SIPP 
operators that they bear little or no responsibility for the quality of the SIPP  business 
that they administer,  because  advice  is the responsibility of other parties,  for example 
Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs)
We are very clear  that SIPP operators,  regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are 
obliged to ensure  the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS  purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes  clients
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures  and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify  possible  instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable  SIPPs
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed  and suggestions  we have made  to 
firms:
[]
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and the size of investments  recommended by intermediaries  that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced  the business.  This would 
enable the firm to seek clarification,  e.g. from the client  or the adviser,  if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
The 2012  report  included  the following:
Principle 2 of the Principles for Business, states  a firm must conduct  its business 
with due skill, care and diligence.
Some SIPP operators were unable to demonstrate that they are conducting adequate 
due diligence  on the investments held by their members  or the introducers  who use 
their schemes, to identify  potential risks to their members  or to the firms  itself.  In 
some firms this was made worse  by an over-reliance on third parties  to conduct due 
diligence on behalf of the operator. In some cases  this has resulted in taxable 
Ref: DRN200425411investments being  inadvertently held, and monies  invested in potentially fraudulent 
investments.
The 2013  guidance included the following:
We have now concluded the second review of Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) operators we have  conducted  since April 2007, when the activity of 
administering SIPPs became regulated by our predecessor regulator, the FSA, under 
the permission  of establishing, operating or winding up a personal pension scheme. 
The review  looked  at: 
 the extent to which SIPP operator  firms  are adhering to our Principles and Rules  
 the current  risks associated with the sector 
 actions  taken  by firms  to mitigate  those identified risks, and 
 the level of further work we need  to undertake to ensure a well-run, sustainable 
sector 
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms  
further guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These  are not new or 
amended requirements,  but a reminder  of regulatory  responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007. 
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly.

Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain  appropriate and sufficient  due diligence (for example,  checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate  for 
personal pension  schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
[]
ensuring all third-party  due diligence that the firm uses or relies  on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include  having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting  the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks  clearly  identify those instances  that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business,  or to undertake further investigations  
such as instances  of potential pension liberation,  investments  that may 
breach HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard  investments  that 
have not been approved by the firm 
The Annex to the 2014 Dear CEO letter included the following: 
Due diligence on non-standard investment business
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Business requires all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  SIPP operators should ensure that they 
conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence, for example, assessing 
Ref: DRN200425412that assets allowed into a scheme are appropriate for a pension scheme. Our 
thematic review found that most SIPP operators failed to undertake adequate due 
diligence on high-risk, speculative and non-standard investments despite being  
aware of the Financial  Services Authority (FSA) guidance originally published  in 2012 
which clarified our expectations  of firm conduct.
Our review assessed due diligence processes in these five key areas: 
correctly establishing  and understanding the nature  of an investment 
ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation  
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable) 
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of 
purchase and subsequently,  and 
ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous 
investors have received  income  if expected, or that any investment  providers  
are credit  worthy etc.) 
Please note that the due diligence necessary  for individual investments  may vary 
depending on the circumstances, and the five areas highlighted above are not 
exhaustive. 
We found that most firms  do not have the expertise or resources to assess  this type 
of business, but were  still allowing transactions  to go ahead. This increases the risk 
that a pension scheme may become a vehicle for high risk and speculative 
investments that are not secure assets,  many  of which could  be scams. It is not 
acceptable for firms to put consumers at risk this way. 
Although our thematic  review focussed on non-standard investments, it is important 
to note that guidance on due diligence applies to all investments. 
Findings from our review  included firms  failing  to: 
understand the nature of an investment, especially contracts  for rights to 
future income, and sale and repurchase agreements  
check that money was being  paid to legitimate businesses, and 
to independently verify that assets  were real and secure, or that investment 
schemes operated  as claimed 
We found that, typically, firms had difficulty completing due diligence  for non-
standard overseas investment schemes  where firms did not have access to local 
qualified legal professionals or accountants. Also, since the last review  of SIPP 
operators, we noted an increase in the number of opaque investment structures,  
such as special purpose vehicles and limited  companies, created to pool investment 
monies and finance  other businesses. Firms had difficulty establishing where  money 
was being sent, and whether underlying investment propositions were genuine. 
We also found that many SIPP operators  accepted  investments  into their schemes 
without adequate consideration of how investments could be valued  or realised. 
Ref: DRN200425413Finally, we found many firms continuing  to rely on marketing and promotional 
material produced  by investment providers as part of due diligence processes, 
despite previous  guidance  highlighting the need for independent assessment of 
investments.
So looking  at the Principles, COBS 2.1.1, the 2009 and 2012 reports, the 2013  guidance and 
2014 Dear CEO letter, I think its clear  that SIPP operators have a duty to safeguard against 
facilitating SIPPs that are inappropriate or detrimental to clients. And SIPP  operators,  acting 
fairly and in their clients best interests,  should undertake certain  inquiries arising from the 
nature or quality  of the introduction and the investment proposed  before determining  whether 
to accept or decline it into a SIPP. 
This doesnt mean deciding what is fair and reasonable involves only asking  whether  
Westerby did as the regulator suggested in these documents. The reports, guidance and 
letter gave non-exhaustive  guidance  of good practice. They  didnt say the suggestions given 
were the limit of what a SIPP  operator should do. As the Annex to the 2014 Dear  CEO letter  
notes, what should  be done to meet such regulatory obligations depends on the 
circumstances. And it was ultimately  for a business  to decide for itself how to meet  its 
obligations. It shouldnt  have been  reliant on the regulator to tell it what  to do. 
Westerby says that my interpretation of the relevant considerations  and good  industry  
practice is wrongly influenced by present day standards  rather  than the standards  that 
operated at the time of Mr Ms investment, when it says limited checks were standard  
industry practice.
 It also says that that Ive taken unfair  account  of recent submissions  in court  cases. 
But, my duty is to reach a decision which I consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  In reaching that decision I have considered  what the regulator  
thinks the regulatory responsibilities of SIPP operators to be and I have considered what  I 
think amounted to good industry practice at the time.  
Its also important to point  out that although some  of the publications Ive listed  above were  
made after the events  subject  to complaint, the Principles that underpin  them existed 
throughout. So, a business must  always conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence (Principle 2) and take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3) and pay 
due regard to the interests  of its clients and treat them  fairly (Principle 6). The other 
publications Ive listed in this section provide a reminder that the Principles apply and give 
examples of the kinds of things  or good  industry practice the regulator expected   a SIPP  
operator might do to ensure it is treating its customer fairly and reasonably and produce the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the 
regulators expectations of what SIPP operators  should be doing also goes some  way to 
indicate what I consider  amounts to good  industry  practice.
Its also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports, the 2013 guidance and the Dear 
CEO letter that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good  practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the 
regulators comments suggest some  industry participants understanding of how the 
standards shaped  what  was expected  of SIPP  operators changed  over time, the standards 
themselves did not change. And whilst  limited  checks of investments may have been 
common industry practice, I dont consider that to be good  industry  practice at the time.
Ref: DRN200425414Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, I think Westerbys duty as a SIPP operator 
was to treat Mr M fairly and to act in his best interests and its duties  included  taking 
reasonable steps to at least: 
ensure that it understood how the investment would operate;
ensure that it did not accept into a SIPP an investment that is likely to give rise to tax 
liabilities within the scheme  (such as unauthorised payments);
ensure that a proposed underlying investment for a SIPP is a genuine asset  and is 
not part of a fraud or a scam  or pensions liberation;
ensure that the investment could be valued  and is realisable given the purpose 
behind the investment  (i.e. to provide an income in retirement).
And I consider these  steps to also be indicative of good industry practice at the time. 
As Ill explain below,  there  is evidence  that Westerby  ought to have known that it was likely 
that AISA wasnt giving its customers advice about  HCI. So another  relevant consideration in 
this complaint is the regulators alert about advisers  giving advice to consumers on SIPPs 
without consideration of the underlying investment to be held in the SIPP.  The regulator 
issued an alert in 2013  (Advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension  
monies into unregulated  products through a SIPP)  setting out that this type of restricted 
advice did not meet regulatory requirements. It said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers  or pension switches  without  assessing  the 
advantages and disadvantages  of investments  proposed  to be held within the new 
pension. In particular,  we have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement 
savings to self-invested personal  pensions (SIPPs)  that invest  wholly  or primarily in 
high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated  investments  (some  which  may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice  model  are under the mistaken  impression that 
this process means  they do not have  to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP  in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision  of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle  for investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected  underlying  investments in unregulated schemes.
The alert post-dates  the events in this complaint   but, again, it didnt set new standards.  It 
set out the regulators concerns about industry practices at the time. So Ill explain  the 
impact of this on Mr Ms complaint in my findings.
Ive already highlighted The Pensions Regulator  notices in the background section of this 
decision. These too are relevant considerations in this complaint as they provide some 
evidence about  the way that HCI was being operated from its inception and what  was 
discovered a short  time after Mr Ms investment. So I think  theyre relevant in considering  
Ref: DRN200425415what Westerby might  have discovered  had it made further enquiries about HCI in 2011. 
However, Im conscious that that they post-date Mr Ms application to Westerby and so their 
relevance is limited in that respect.  
Having said all of the above, I reiterate the starting point is that Im required to make a 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. This is 
wider than the rules  and guidance that have been issued by the regulator.
did Westerby act fairly and reasonably by accepting Mr Ms introduction by AISA?
As Ive highlighted above, Westerby  had a duty to treat Mr M fairly, including  in its 
consideration of whether to accept  his introduction by AISA. I appreciate  that Westerby  
wasnt responsible  for assessing the suitability  of investments for investors. And Westerby  
isnt responsible for any failure by AISA to provide  suitable advice to Mr M or other 
customers it introduced to Westerby. However,  the complaint Im deciding  is Mr Ms 
complaint against  Westerby and Im therefore looking at Westerbys  own regulatory 
obligations when  reaching my decision  on what would be a fair and reasonable 
determination of this complaint.
Westerby and AISA agreed Intermediaries  Terms of Business in August 2011. This 
document set out the basic roles  and responsibilities  of the respective parties when  
introducing and accepting clients to Westerby. It had a provision  where AISA warranted that 
it was authorised by the FSA for the sale and advice of SIPPs  and underlying investments. 
The agreement didnt  specifically  say that AISA would provide pension  advice to clients  
introduced to Westerby  so it wasnt  a requirement  of the agreement  for AISA to give 
advice. But I think its reasonable to conclude  that Westerby believed that AISA was 
providing advice  to clients it was introducing and thats why there was a provision in the 
agreement stipulating that AISA had to maintain the appropriate FSA authorisation to do so.
Westerby has told us that it ended its relationship with AISA in February 2012. It did so after 
it became aware  that a customer was being advised  in writing to not transfer his pension  but 
verbally told by AISA  to ignore the written  advice and make  the transfer. 
But I remain  of the view that Westerby ought reasonably  to have had some concerns about 
AISA earlier than this. Thats because in my opinion it knew that AISA was not giving its 
clients advice about the underlying investment in HCI. Even though Westerby disputes  some 
evidence about  this, Ive seen emails  between AISA and Westerby  for two other  customers. 
The emails  pre-date  Mr Ms application  and show that Westerby contacted AISA  to establish 
whether investment advice was being  given for the customers. On both occasions  AISA  said 
it had given advice  on the transfer,  but not the investment. 
As Ive highlighted above, the regulator issued  an alert in 2013 setting out that this type of 
restricted advice did not meet  regulatory  requirements. It said the provision of suitable 
advice generally  requires consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the 
wrapper (here the SIPP) and the expected  underlying  investments in unregulated schemes 
(HCI).
Although it wasnt the party that was giving advice here, as a regulated  party, I think  
Westerby ought to have had some concern about  the restricted  advice that AISA was 
involved in. I think Westerby ought  to have known that AISA  was unlikely  to be providing  
regulatory compliant  advice  to at least some of the customers that were being  introduced  to 
Westerby for the purpose of holding the HCI investment. In other  words,  this was an 
Ref: DRN200425416anomalous feature that ought  to have rung alarm  bells for Westerby  when accepting 
introductions from AISA.  
It seems  to me that uncovering this kind of warning sign is precisely the reason why 
Westerby was asking  the questions of AISA in the emails Ive referred  to. So its difficult  to 
understand why Westerby  didnt think it appropriate to follow this up with AISA when it was 
told that AISA wasnt giving customers advice about the HCI investment.
I know that Westerby thinks  that the deficiency of any advice given by AISA is a matter that 
Mr M and our service should  take up with AISA rather than it. Ill comment on this further 
below when I make my findings about  whether Mr M would have gone ahead with the 
investment in HCI without  Westerby. But, for now it is sufficient for me to say that I think 
Westerby when considering Mr Ms SIPP application and acting fairly and reasonably,  ought  
to have identified  that there was at least a risk that AISA was giving poor advice to some 
customers.
Ive thought about whether this alone ought to have been enough for Westerby to decline Mr 
Ms introduction by AISA. But I think it was reasonable for Westerby  to have still considered  
Mr Ms application  albeit with heightened caution.  In the particular  facts  of this case,  I think 
it would  have been reasonable for Westerby  to have made further  enquiries  with Mr M 
and/or AISA  about  the extent of the advice hed received  and to ensure Mr M understood the 
nature and risks associated with the HCI investment.  So Ive looked  to see if Westerby  did 
this.
As I made clear in my second  provisional decision (and contrary  to Westerbys recent 
submissions), I accept  that Westerby did call Mr M in December  2011.  From the note of the 
call, it appears that it didnt discuss the extent of the advice hed received, but it records  that 
Westerby was considering Mr Ms application and instructions and was concerned about the 
suitability of the HCI investment for him. It spoke to him to clarify his understanding  before 
allowing the investment to go ahead.  
As I said in my second  provisional decision,  I think its also fair to say that concerns around  
restricted advice in this context typically involve advisers giving advice recommending a 
transfer into a SIPP,  but without advising on the risks of the underlying investments intended  
to be held in the SIPP. So I think its important to note that the advice from AISA  in this case  
actually recommended that Mr M leave his pension invested with his existing provider.
So, in the particular facts of this case,  I think Westerby did enough by exploring Mr Ms 
understanding of the risks of the investment before accepting his introduction from AISA. 
But, in line with its regulatory obligations, Westerby still had a duty to act with due skill, care 
and diligence  and to treat Mr M fairly when deciding whether to accept the HCI investment 
into his SIPP. In this context, I think the anomalous  nature of the advice that AISA  was giving  
to customers was something that ought  to have  heightened Westerbys concerns about  
facilitating HCI investments introduced by AISA. After all, AISA  was only introducing 
customers to Westerby  for the sole purpose of making investments in HCI  a non-standard, 
high risk esoteric investment focused on raising funds from pensions. 
So, Ill now explore whether  Westerby  complied  with its obligations in this respect  when 
accepting the HCI investment  into Mr Ms SIPP. 
did Westerby act fairly and reasonably in accepting the HCI investment into Mr Ms SIPP?
Ref: DRN200425417Ive taken all the circumstances into account  including  the initial due diligence  that 
Westerby says it conducted.  As I said in my first provisional decision, I accept that Westerby 
had a basic knowledge of the business model  for HCI. It got this basic knowledge from the 
information set out in the information memoranda. And I agree that Westerby  could take 
some comfort from the fact that HCI was a UK based company and that UK based 
professionals (including a FCA authorised  person)  were said to be involved with it.  
I also accept that SIPPs  can be used to make investments in unlisted shares and that 
unlisted shares are permitted investments  under HMRC rules.  And they can be valued by 
specialist accountants  if instructed  to do so. So, to be clear,  Im not saying that SIPPs  cant 
be used to make investments in unlisted shares.
However, as Ive said above, Westerby  had a duty to conduct its business  with due skill, 
care and diligence and pay due regard to the interests of Mr M and treat him fairly. To do 
that, I think it needed to carry  out some further enquiries and due diligence  of HCI before 
accepting it into Mr Ms SIPP to ascertain  ensure that HCI didnt give rise to unauthorised 
payments and/or pensions liberation.  
I think its important to also take account  of the regulators  2014  Dear CEO Letter which  
provided a reminder  that the Principles  apply and an indication of the FCAs expectations  
about the kinds of practical steps  a SIPP operator  might reasonably  take to achieve the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles. The letter said there had been an increase:
in the number of opaque investment structures, such as special purpose vehicles 
and limited companies, created to pool investment monies and finance  other  
businesses. Firms had difficulty  establishing where money  was being sent, and 
whether underlying investment propositions were  genuine 
we found many firms continuing to rely on marketing and promotional material 
produced by investment providers as part of due diligence processes, despite 
previous guidance highlighting the need for independent assessment of 
investments.
(my emphasis)
In my opinion, these statements illustrate that HCI is the type of investment over which SIPP  
operators ought to have  carried  out some independent due diligence  and they should   not 
just rely on promotional material. 
Furthermore, although I appreciate that I had previously  said that I didnt think there was an 
obvious risk that HCIs business model involved pension liberation, having considered the 
details of the information memoranda further, I think there were  features of the HCI 
investment that ought to have given  Westerby  cause  for concern. 
As highlighted in my second provisional decision, HCI was an unregulated illiquid investment 
focused on raising £10 million  solely  from SIPPs (£5 million of which  was to be raised  within 
three months) for investment in a new start up company  which was itself to fund other start 
up companies with no clear lending strategy apart  from generic references that certain 
websites might feed through proposals. I think this business model for a pension  funded  
investment ought  to have led Westerby, acting fairly and reasonably,  to undertake  further 
independent due diligence. 
Ref: DRN200425418The potential return for these pension investors  was to be a 3% fixed coupon  with 50% of 
HCIs distributable profits  each year, but the latter only at the discretion of the HCI directors. 
So, Westerby ought to have known that pension investors were  being asked to make  very 
high risk investments,  but for only a potentially modest return.  The available information  
about what HCI might do to achieve this return was also very vague. So, Westerby  ought to 
have realised that the vast majority of retail pension investors would  not find this to be an 
attractive proposition  in any shape  or form.
I think it should have  been apparent that this focus  by HCI on SIPP funding and the lack of 
detail about how HCI might achieve  the (potentially low) return was anomalous. In line with 
its obligations to treat Mr M fairly  and to act in his best interests, Westerby ought to have 
queried how an esoteric high risk investment  such as HCI would persuade  SIPP investors  to 
invest such a large  amount of pension funds in HCI over such  a short period of time unless 
the SIPP investors were  being poorly  advised  (Ive already highlighted above the fact 
Westerby ought to have realised that there  was a risk that AISA  was giving  customers poor 
advice) and/or motivated  by factors  that HCI hadnt willingly disclosed  such  as 
unauthorised payments  /pension liberation which give rise to tax liabilities.  
Tax liabilities  and pension  liberation  are of course matters that SIPP  operators  ought to have 
regard to when  considering whether to accept an investment into a SIPP.  As Ive made  
clear, I think  its fair and reasonable and consistent with what I consider to be good practice 
for a SIPP operator  to undertake some  checks to ensure that an investment does not 
amount to pensions liberation or unauthorised payments  before  accepting it into a SIPP.
At this point, I should explain  what I mean  by an unauthorised payment and pensions 
liberation. Pension funds  are usually only available to individuals once they are aged 55 or 
over. But, the rules  about this are circumvented  where individuals  access  funds early, 
typically by way of immediate loans (based on a percentage of the value of their funds) from 
investments into which their pensions are transferred. Whilst receiving cash immediately 
may seem attractive to pension investors  in the short  term, it is not in their long term financial 
interests as they risk heavy tax charges on these payments.  So, it would not be in its 
customers best interests for a SIPP operator  to allow a customer to be exposed to this risk. I 
note that Westerby  agrees  with this as it says that if it had known that HCI was making 
unauthorised payments,  it would have declined to accept the investment.
So, whilst the involvement of UK based  professionals with HCI may mean  that the enquiries I 
suggested that Westerby ought  to have made  in my second provisional decision may not 
have been obvious  I consider these were reasonable enquiries for Westerby, acting fairly 
and in Mr Ms best interests, to have made at some point before Mr Ms investment to 
ensure that the investment didnt involve unauthorised payments or pensions liberation. To 
reiterate, the enquiries that I think Westerby ought reasonably to have undertaken are:
Westerby ought to have obtained further  details from HCI about  the investments  that 
had been made and what investments  were  planned in the months  ahead  and the 
lending criteria that HCI were adopting.  
Westerby ought to have obtained further  details about the role the professional  
parties said to be involved with HCI would play  i.e. the firm of accountants and 
solicitors who were  listed in the information memoranda.
Ref: DRN200425419These enquiries would  have enabled  it to find out more  about  their proposed 
involvement in the loans,  the lending criteria that had or would be used by HCI and 
how professional  parties  would safeguard  against  inappropriate  loans.  The 
information memoranda and reference  letter from the firm of accountants had no 
details about this.
Westerby needed to be satisfied that HCI could  be valued  and was a realisable 
asset. 
Its also clear  that Westerby did in fact have significant concerns about HCI. As Ive said 
above, it called Mr M to make sure he understood the risks involved in investing in it. I think 
that is an example  of Westerby adhering  to what I consider to be good industry practice.  The 
reality was though  that, although it called Mr M to see if he understood the risks, Westerby  
didnt make any independent enquiries  of HCI  either initially  when it accepted  the HCI 
investment into its SIPP platform or when  Mr M later made his investment. It relied  solely on 
the limited promotional information presented to it without  questioning whether that 
information was correct or being  followed in practice.
In the particular facts  of this case, I dont  consider  that was consistent with its regulatory 
obligations under  the Principles and COBS 2.1.1  to conduct its business  with due skill, care 
and diligence  and pay due regard to the interests  of Mr M and treat him fairly. So, I dont 
think Westerby acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M.
what would  Westerby have discovered if it had made further  enquiries  at the time of Mr Ms 
investment?
As Ive highlighted above, I think Westerby  ought to have had concerns about  HCI based on 
the information presented to it and there were enquiries that Westerby ought  to have 
undertaken about the HCIs business and funding model itself.
I think its right to also take into account that Mr Ms SIPP application for investment in HCI 
was made  in November  2011 and the investment  didnt proceed until December 2011 by 
which time HCI had hoped to raise  significant funding. Westerby  itself had also facilitated 
SIPP investments  from other  customers in HCI before Mr M. So, as Ive made clear above, I 
think there was a requirement for Westerby to make  enquiries and, at any point  before  
Mr Ms investment, there was information available to Westerby  about the promotion, receipt 
and use of funds  by HCI.
I cant be sure what Westerby  would have  found  out if it had made further enquiries  of HCI. 
Ive noted that the accountants have,  in response  to a recent query  from Mr M, confirmed 
that the cover letter by which  the information  memoranda was sent to Westerby  did indeed 
refer to their firm carrying out due diligence on proposed  investments to be made by HCI. 
But, they were a shareholder of HCI and not independent.  And there is no evidence  
whatsoever that they in fact carried out any checks on any HCI investments. So I dont think  
this confirmation  is enough for me to say that Westerby  would have been satisfied that there 
were sufficient safeguards  in place for HCIs business model  at the time it accepted  the HCI 
investment in to his SIPP.
I must base my decision  without hindsight  on what I believe is fair and reasonable. On the 
balance of probabilities, I think that had Westerby acted with due care and diligence and 
made independent enquiries,  there  would  have been one of two likely outcomes.
Ref: DRN200425420Westerby would have  been provided with evidence  about the receipt  and use of 
funds and realised  that  as set out in The Pensions Regulator  notices  - HCI either 
had already or clearly intended  to depart from the general  aims set out in its 
information memoranda and was very likely involved in unauthorised transactions;  or
Westerby would have  found that HCI was not forthcoming or was unclear with details 
about how the investment was being promoted  to pension investors, the funds it had 
raised and how those funds were  being  used. 
I consider the scenario set out at the second  bullet point to be more likely.
In my opinion, both outcomes ought to have led Westerby to conclude  that it would be not be 
treating Mr M fairly and reasonably if it allowed the HCI investment to into Mr Ms SIPP 
because of the knowledge or risk that HCI was not operating as it purported  it would  do and 
was involved in unauthorised payments/pension liberation. 
As such,  I think it ought to have refused to accept  the HCI investment in line with its 
regulatory obligations under Principles 2, 3 and 6 and COBS 2.1.1. In my view,  Westerbys 
failure to do so meant that it didnt treat Mr M fairly  or reasonably  and should now 
compensate him for his loss. 
In light of this finding,  I dont  think  its necessary for me to explore in further  detail Mr Ms 
arguments about conflicts of interest with KMR and HCI that he says Westerby should also 
have been concerned about.
would Mr M have gone ahead and made the investment in HCI without Westerby?
I appreciate that Westerby wasnt responsible for assessing the suitability of investments  for 
investors. And I accept  that Westerby asked Mr M to sign a declaration  the Unlisted Share  
Purchase Questionnaire acknowledging  that he understood the risks involved with HCI. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr M did indeed understand that he was making  a high risk 
investment with his pension. 
I also accept Westerbys  argument that Mr M is likely to have been keen to press ahead  with 
the HCI investment  in order  to receive an immediate  loan back. This is likely to be the 
reason why he ignored the advice of AISA.  
But, for the reasons explained  above,  I find that Westerby shouldnt  have accepted  the HCI 
investment into his SIPP. This leads me to the question of what  Mr M would  have done  had 
Westerby declined the application. I think that there  are two likely possibilities:
Mr M wouldve decided to do nothing  and left his pension where it was. 
Mr M wouldve gone to another SIPP operator  to complete the transfer  of the 
investment into a SIPP.
On balance, I think both of these options  would have brought  about the same outcome  
which is that Mr M would  not have  moved his pension to a SIPP and invested in HCI. The 
latter is because I dont  believe another SIPP provider would have processed the transaction  
if it had carried out sufficient due diligence in accordance with its responsibilities  under the 
Principles. 
Ref: DRN200425421Westerby says that Im wrong in concluding  that if it had refused the investment in HCI, Mr M 
could not have invested in HCI. It says another customer whose application for investment in 
HCI was refused went on to transfer  her pension to an occupational scheme which permitted  
the HCI investment.  Westerby  says that Mr M was driven by the prospect of getting a loan 
back from HCI and insistent on making  the investment. So he too would have found a route  
by which  to make the investment if Westerby had declined to assist.
I understand Westerbys  point  and I agree that Mr M is likely to have been very keen  to go 
ahead with the HCI investment and would have been disappointed if Westerby had refused 
to facilitate it. But I disagree that these are grounds to absolve Westerby  of its own 
regulatory obligations. In my opinion, having considered the regulatory  framework and what  
in my opinion was good industry practice  at the time, if as a result of sufficient due diligence 
it was appropriate  not to accept an investment into a SIPP,  a SIPP operator should  not 
proceed to facilitate the investment even  if the client insists that this is done. 
Furthermore, just because one investor was able to transfer her pension to an occupational 
scheme, it doesnt necessarily follow that Mr M would have been  able to do the same. And I 
dont think I can safely conclude that, even if he had done so, the investment in HCI would 
have gone ahead anyway before matters with HCI were brought  to an end in around April 
2012. 
I accept that other regulated parties  were involved  including AISA.  Our service  doesnt 
have jurisdiction to consider a complaint by Mr M against AISA.  In any event, Im looking at 
Westerbys role and responsibilities. And I think that Westerby  failed to put a stop to the 
transaction when  it shouldve  done. If Westerby had treated Mr M fairly and reasonably, then 
the SIPP transfer and associated investment wouldnt have gone  ahead.  So, Im satisfied  
that its fair and reasonable to hold Westerby responsible for the whole of the loss suffered  
by Mr M.
If Westerby believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it should be 
free to pursue those other parties.  And if Mr M is compensated  in full now,  Westerby (rather  
than Mr M) should benefit from any future  payments that might be made in relation to the 
investment. So compensation payable to Mr M should be contingent  on the assignment by 
him to Westerby of any rights of action he may have against other parties in relation to his 
switch to the SIPP and the investment. It should also be contingent on Mr M undertaking to 
give to Westerby any future payment he might receive in relation to the investment.
Overall, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Westerbys  failure  to carry out 
sufficient due diligence resulted in it facilitating Mr Ms investment when it otherwise would 
not or should not have  done.  
fair compensation
In his recent submissions, Mr M has explained  why he thinks  the loan payment he received 
for making  the investment  in HCI shouldnt be deducted from any compensation payable  by 
Westerby. He says the loan was separate to his investment in HCI. 
But I dont agree that it would be fair to ignore  the loan. The loan and investment were  
effectively part of one transaction, even if the loan was made by a separate legal entity to 
HCI. Mr M needed  the loan for a business  venture and in the complaint correspondence he 
said the whole point  seemed to be that the capital  I needed for my business was only 
available by borrowing  from Hedge and risking my pension. So, I think Mr M was motivated 
Ref: DRN200425422by the prospect of the loan when deciding to invest in HCI. In other words, I think the 
investment in HCI was a means for Mr M to obtain access to funds linked to his pension that 
he would  otherwise not have had access to before retirement age. That is consistent with 
what we know from The Pensions Regulator  notices about  HCI making  loans to pension 
scheme members. 
So, as Mr M has had the benefit  of the loan and is unlikely  to be required to pay it back, I 
think the loan amount  (less any repayments already  made by Mr M) should be deducted 
from the compensation payable by Westerby. 
But Westerby should  undertake to reimburse Mr M in the event  that he is required to make a 
tax payment for receiving the loan at a future date. Thats because he wouldnt have 
received the loan if the HCI investment had not gone ahead  and he wont have benefitted  
from the amount  of tax he pays on it. Therefore any tax that he pays on the loan should be 
repaid to Mr M by Westerby.
Mr M also thinks that he should be paid around  £5,000 for the trouble and upset caused to 
him. Westerby shouldnt  have facilitated  the investment for the reasons Ive explained. And 
Mr M has undoubtedly suffered some  stress  and anxiety  about the loss of a large  part of his 
pension. But, he proceeded with the investment with a degree  of insistence and some 
understanding of risk. This should be reflected in the award of compensation. So, I dont 
think any award for trouble and upset is warranted.
My aim in compensating  Mr M is to put him as close as possible to the position  he would 
probably now be in if he hadnt invested  in HCI. So, Westerby should: 
Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ms previous pension plan on the date of 
calculation if it hadnt been transferred to the Westerby SIPP.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index) should  be used  as Im satisfied thats  a 
reasonable proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved if Mr Ms pension 
had remained invested in his previous pension.
Its to be assumed that any contributions  or withdrawals that have  been  made  - 
including the payment  Mr M received  by way of the HCI loan (less  any repayments 
made) and the payment  he received  from the HCI administrators  - would still have 
occurred and on the same dates.  
Compare the notional transfer value  of Mr Ms previous pension (or the fair value 
calculated by the benchmark) with the actual value of the Mr Ms SIPP. In this case  
the value of the HCI investment should be assumed  to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation.
The compensation payable to Mr M is the difference between the notional or fair 
value and the actual value  of Mr Ms SIPP. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
or notional  value, no compensation is payable.
Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ms HCI investment. This can then be deducted  
from the compensation paid to Mr M.
Ref: DRN200425423I understand that the SIPP is still open, but that no fees are being  applied by 
Westerby. If the only reason for the SIPP remaining open is because of the 
investment in HCI, I think itd be best if the HCI investment  could be removed from 
the SIPP. Mr M would  then be able to close  the SIPP, if he wishes. That would allow  
him to stop paying any future  fees for the SIPP. Ideally therefore, Westerby  should 
assess a commercial value for the HCI investment and take ownership of the 
investment.
If its unable to buy Mr Ms HCI investment,  it shouldnt make  any deduction from the 
above compensation. It will also then waive any future fees (I think  a period of five 
years is reasonable)  for the SIPP until the SIPP can be cancelled  if the reason it 
must be kept open is because of the HCI investment. It may wish to require that Mr M 
provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive  from the investment in 
the future.  That undertaking must  allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt  from the investment. Westerby  will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Increase the SIPP value by the total amount of the above  compensation,  allowing  for 
any available tax relief  and/or  costs.
If its unable to pay the total amount  into Mr Ms SIPP,  it should  pay the 
compensation as a cash sum to Mr M. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, 
it wouldve  provided a taxable income.  So the total amount should be reduced  to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ms marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. For example,  if Mr M is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional 
allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current  
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would have  been able to take a tax free lump  
sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Pay Mr M interest of 8% simple  a year on the above compensation from the date of 
the decision to the date compensation  is paid  if compensation isnt paid within 
28 days of Westerby being notified  of acceptance.
Refund to Mr M any fees or charges hes paid from money other  than what he 
transferred into the SIPP  together with interest  of 8% simple  a year, from the date 
the fees were  paid to the date compensation is paid.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. If Westerby deducts income tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Westerby should give Mr M a 
tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require  Westerby  Trustee Services Limited  to pay the fair 
compensation as set out above.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019 .
 
Ref: DRN200425424Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2004254