K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently Ms and Mr N held with 
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (BOI). Theyre unhappy  at having to pay an early  repayment charge 
(ERC) when they moved house. Their application  for a new mortgage, to which theyd aimed  
to port their existing  deal, was refused as it exceeded BOIs maximum loan- to-value ratio.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers  involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  
Ms and Mr Ns mortgage with BOI was on a fixed rate, running  until the end of November 
2020. In the autumn of 2018, they began  making plans to move house.  BOI issued them  with 
a non-binding (and non-property specific)  illustration (in effect, an agreement  in principle) for 
a mortgage of £650,000,  assuming  a 10% deposit.  Based on this, Ms and Mr N began 
looking for a property to buy. 
They reverted to BOI in March 2019, having found  a property for which  they needed a 
mortgage of £517,500. BOI issued an illustration  for this amount, and they began  the 
transaction. However, once BOI had assessed  the application fully, it realised it could only 
lend Ms and Mr N a maximum 90% of their purchase price;  in the case of the property they 
were buying,  that was £500,000. 
Ms and Mr N continued with the purchase  by sourcing the mortgage they needed  from 
another lender. However, this meant  they paid an ERC of about £12,000 on redeeming the 
BOI mortgage. 
BOI admitted it was wrong  to issue an illustration for £517,500 in March  2019 and offered 
Ms and Mr N £150 compensation for the mistake, but rejected their claim for a refund of the 
ERC. When the complaint came to us, our investigator thought BOIs offer was fair. 
Ms and Mr N have  asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ref: DRN29986202Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As a starting point,  no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender has lent before,  
its not obliged  to do so again.  But a lender must  treat customers fairly. In the context of an 
application for lending, that means assessing it fairly  in accordance  with the banks lending  
criteria. Lenders criteria  are commercially  sensitive and not generally made public. Also,  
generally speaking,  its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position here. 
I dont find that BOI did anything wrong in issuing  the illustration for £650,000 in the autumn 
of 2018. That reflected  the maximum amount its affordability criteria would allow 
Ms and Mr N to borrow, and they themselves have acknowledged that it assumed a 10% 
deposit, which corresponds to a 90% loan. 
As far as the ERC itself was concerned, Ms and Mr N redeemed  the existing mortgage  
during the period for which it applied, so it was payable in accordance  with the underlying 
contract between them  and BOI. The crux of the complaint, and what  I must decide, is 
whether they did so because of the misleading  information they were  given in March 2019.
The simple  answer to that is; no they didnt. By the time Ms and Mr N completed their 
purchase and redeemed their BOI mortgage,  the misleading information  had long been  
corrected. They redeemed the mortgage knowing full well that an ERC would be payable.  
I take their point that by then, theyd formed an emotional attachment  for the property and 
fully understand  why theyd want to carry on with buying it. That was their right,  but it was 
also their choice, and they must accept the consequences that flow from that.
I do, however,  agree  with Ms and Mr N when they say that £150  isnt enough compensation 
for their time and trouble.  Taking a step back and looking at everything in the round, as my 
impartiality requires me to do, Ive assessed  fair compensation for all the disruption and 
disappointment Ms and Mr N experienced at £400, and BOI has agreed to pay that sum.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct Bank  of Ireland  (UK) Plc to pay Ms and Mr N £400.  I make 
no other order or award.  My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2998620