K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains about the way Nationwide Building  Society handled a review  on his account. 
And hes unhappy with their decision  to return the funds after an indemnity was received. 
Background
In July 2017, Mr H arranged for a payment of around £32,500 to be transferred from his 
PayPal account  to his Nationwide account.  On receipt of this payment, Nationwide blocked 
Mr Hs account pending a review.
Mr H said he repeatedly  contacted Nationwide to try and gain access to his funds.  And he 
offered to provide them with information  from PayPal  to show he was entitled  to the money.  
Mr H said Nationwide at times agreed  to let him provide  information,  but then changed their 
mind.
When Nationwide responded in full to Mr Hs complaint, they explained they didnt have 
enough information to show Mr H was entitled to the funds. And they explained  theyd 
received an indemnity from another bank, who Ill refer to as bank B, asking for the funds  to 
be returned to them. Mr H said Nationwide shouldnt  have returned the funds  to bank B 
because they didnt have his authority. 
As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought the complaint  to our service. He told us he wanted 
compensation of £32,500 and an official apology from Nationwide.  He also said he wanted 
Nationwide to look at their internal policy because of the way hed been  treated and the 
stress hes suffered  because of this situation. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.  She explained that 
Nationwide were entitled to review  his account,  and as theyd received an indemnity, they 
could return the funds to bank B. So, she didnt think they had to do anything  to put things 
right.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Nationwide delayed things, so bank  B had time to raise an 
indemnity. And he said Nationwide should  have got a restraint  order  to hold his funds for 
longer than 28 days, but they didnt. Mr H is also unhappy  with the information Nationwide  
supplied him with when he requested a Subject Access Request (SAR).
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020.  In it I said;
The review
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr H to realise he couldnt  use his account.  
And I appreciate this put him in a financially challenging position   especially as he says he 
faced difficulties with his rent payments. But a bank cant always  guarantee that funds in an 
account are readily  available.
Ref: DRN28376532All banks  and building societies in the UK are strictly  regulated  and must take certain actions in 
order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations.  Banks and building  societies are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing relationship.  That sometimes means they 
need to review and sometimes  block customers accounts. Nationwide  have said that Mr Hs 
accounts were reviewed and blocked  to meet these legal requirements.
Having looked  at all the available information and circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed and blocked the account. So, I cant say they have done anything  wrong.  
Nationwide have explained they reviewed  things because of a security trigger following the 
transfer of a large payment from PayPal into Mr Hs Nationwide account. I understand Mr H 
is upset that Nationwide initially said he could send them proof he was entitled to the funds, 
but then changed their mind saying they needed  to speak to PayPal. Its important banks 
and building societies complete thorough investigations to ensure theyre adhering  to their 
legal and regulatory obligations. In Mr Hs case,  I think it was necessary  for Nationwide to do 
further investigations with PayPal and bank B before  deciding on whether to release the 
money back to Mr H or not. 
I know Mr H is concerned  about the time it took Nationwide to review  things. He thinks  they 
delayed things, so that bank B had time to raise  an indemnity. I appreciate  Mr H feels  very 
strongly about this, but based  on the evidence Ive seen, I cant  see thats what happened.  
Nationwide were proactive in their investigation  from July 2017  and Ive seen  they had 
contact with bank  B before March 2018 when the funds  were sent back.  So, while  I 
appreciate Mr Hs comments and feelings, I cant fairly agree.
Nationwide holding on to the money for longer than 28 days
Mr H has raised  a point that Nationwide werent entitled to hold on to his money  for longer 
than 28 days without  a restraint  order. He says Nationwide held his money  for longer than 
they could. Ive thought carefully  about  Mr Hs specific points here,  and I understand from his 
comments he says hes got legal advice. However, I dont agree the point Mr H is referring to 
is relevant to his complaint. I consider Nationwide were entitled to take the time they did. I 
appreciate the review  took longer than Mr H thinks it should have done, but that doesnt  
necessarily mean Nationwide did anything wrong.
As Ive already  explained businesses have  a legal obligation to comply  with various laws and 
regulations. And Im satisfied that Nationwide blocked Mr Hs accounts in order  to comply 
with these obligations. I do accept that Nationwide took a relatively  lengthy  period to review 
Mr Hs account. But it wouldnt be fair for me to say they should have carried out this review 
in a specific timeframe. I say that because, Nationwide is entitled to do what theyve done  in 
order to comply with its legal and regulatory  obligations. 
The indemnity
Mr H said Nationwide shouldnt have acted on the indemnity because  they didnt have his 
authority. But Nationwide didnt need Mr Hs consent. The practice  of providing indemnities 
in situations like this is well established. It gives business and consumers protection on 
recalling money when the money in question  isnt rightfully owned. In this case, bank  B 
asked Nationwide  to return the money  to them because they were at a loss due to the 
transfer. Ive considered bank Bs reasons and explanation and I agree it was appropriate for 
Nationwide to return the money.  
Ref: DRN28376533In summary,  banks must  be able to talk to each other to protect their own money.  And this is 
what has happened here. The other  bank  was at a loss because of the transfer to PayPal 
and then from PayPal  to Mr Hs Nationwide account.  So, they exercised their right to claim 
their money back by raising  an indemnity. 
I appreciate Mr H feels he is at a loss because of this, but based on what Ive seen so far, I 
cant agree  Mr H was entitled to the £32,500  which  was transferred from his PayPal account.
The SAR
Data protection issues, including SARs, are a matter for the Information  Commissioners 
Office, not this service.  I wont  decide  whether data protection law has been breached  or 
whether there is outstanding information not supplied to Mr H. This is outside the jurisdiction  
of this service.
Overall
Overall, based on the evidence  Ive seen so far, I think Nationwide were entitled  to suspend 
Mr Hs account while they carried out their review.  And their decision to act on the indemnity 
received by another bank  was the right one.
So, in summary,  I thought  Nationwide had appropriately in the circumstances and I didnt 
think they needed to do anything differently.
Nationwide didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr H responded and, in summary, said:
He doesnt  agree that Nationwide didnt need a restraint order after 28 days. He said 
the process requires  an agreement to hold the money after seven  days   and then 
they have to release that money  or gain authorisation to hold it for a further period of 
up to 28 days.  And after that time,  Mr H says, Nationwide  would need a restraint  
order to prevent him from accessing  his own money;
The Subject  Access  Request Mr H received shows the money was returned  in 
March 2018;
He wants to understand why Nationwide froze his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive thought about the additional points  Mr H has raised  and I appreciate  he wants  to 
understand why Nationwide froze his account. Banks and building  societies arent obliged to 
give a reason when  they review an account.  However, Nationwide have helpfully explained 
that they reviewed  things  because of a security  trigger following the transfer of a large 
payment from PayPal into Mr Hs Nationwide account. I consider this is an adequate reason 
for reviewing Mr Hs account.
Ref: DRN28376534Mr H has said the Subject Access Request  he received shows  the money was returned in 
March 2018. I confirmed in my provisional decision that Nationwide sent the money  back  to 
bank B in March  2018, so I dont have  anything further to add to this point.
Mr H is concerned about the time Nationwide held on to his money. Mr H has explained a 
process where the bank has seven days to decide  what to do with the money and need to 
gain authorisation if they dont send it back. I appreciate what Mr H is talking about here. But 
I cant agree,  based on the evidence Ive seen, that its relevant  to his complaint. I say that 
because the process  Mr H has explained is the process of a third-party organisation. And 
Nationwide reviewed Mr Hs account internally.  Therefore,  its only relevant for me to 
consider Nationwides internal process.  Ive done that and, as explained in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied they acted in line with it. 
So, while I appreciate Mr Hs strong feeling  about  this, I cant fairly  ask Nationwide  to do 
anything differently. And therefore, I wont be changing my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Hayley West
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2837653