K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained about their secured loan with Blemain Finance Limited, trading as 
Together. They were  unhappy because:
-the redemption  figure  Blemain  sent them included a full month of interest, instead of 
being calculated  on a daily basis; 
-when Mr P phoned to ask about  paying  off the loan, hed been told there werent any 
additional charges to pay. But there was a £150 admin fee which  they had to pay.  
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a secured  loan with Blemain on 22 January  2008.
In January 2019, Mr P rang Blemain to ask about paying off the loan. He believed that the 
figure Blemain gave him was the amount theyd have to pay, and that there would be no 
fees. The same day, Blemain  sent Mr and Mrs P a letter with the figures in. But when that 
letter came, the figure was about £1,000  higher, and there  was an administration fee of 
£150. They  complained.
Blemain replied that it had listened  to the phone call. It said the adviser  had said the figure  
quoted was the current balance and not a redemption figure. But Blemain agreed it hadnt  
been clear.  
Blemain also said that in the call, Mr P had asked  if there were  any redemption  or early 
repayment fees or any kind. The adviser  had confirmed there wouldnt be an early 
repayment charge,  but she hadnt said there would be a repayment administration  fee. 
Blemain explained  that the fee wasnt an early repayment charge, but it was for the admin  
work to close Mr and Mrs Ps account.  But again,  Blemain agreed  it hadnt been clear.
Blemain paid Mr and Mrs P £50 for any distress or inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs P also complained because the redemption quote had quoted them  for a full 
months interest, regardless of when  during  the payment month  they paid off the loan. 
Blemain replied that it charged  interest  on a monthly basis,  not a daily basis.  It said this was 
set out in the terms and conditions of the loan. So the figure  on the quote dated 29 January 
would be the figure  until 21 February.
Mr and Mr P werent satisfied and complained to this service. They set out what  had 
happened, and said they didnt understand how Blemain could justify charging interest for a 
month in advance, when theyd have paid off the principal outstanding before then. They 
said that theyd  spoken to Blemain and an adviser had said that the management  was 
reviewing the possibility of charging interest on a daily basis.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.  He set out the relevant section of 
the terms and conditions, which Mr and Mrs P had accepted  when they signed to accept the 
offer. Section  2 (f) said:
The borrower also agrees to pay the lender
Ref: DRN22068352(f) Interest at the rate of interest per month  Interest is calculated  on each Due Date  by 
applying the interest  rate per annum  to the balance outstanding  on the previous Due Date.. 
and dividing the product  of that application  by twelve.  The resulting amount is then added  to 
the balance outstanding.  
Mr and Mrs Ps due date was 22nd of each month,  as that was the date theyd originally 
taken out the loan.
The investigator explained that this confirmed that Blemain charged interest on a monthly 
basis. He explained  that this was a legitimate business decision it was entitled  to make,  and 
not something this service  could interfere with. As a result of this policy,  the redemption 
figure was valid up to the day before  the next payment  was due. Interest wasnt  calculated 
on a daily basis.
The investigator also explained that Mr and Mrs P could contact the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA),  about their concerns about interest  being  calculated on a monthly 
basis. He provided  contact details, but told Mr and Mrs P that the FCA might use the 
information but wouldnt look at their case on an individual  basis.
The investigator also looked at the £150 administration  charge. He said he could understand 
Mr and Mrs Ps frustration  at being given  inaccurate information. But he thought Blemains 
payment of £50 compensation  was reasonable, because it corrected the mistake shortly 
afterwards, so £50 was sufficient to recognise the impact of the error.
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied. They said they were deeply disappointed.  They  believed  no 
financial institution should be permitted to act as Blemain had done. They said it continued 
intentionally to mislead their clients, and charge interest that wasnt  due on loans repaid. 
They felt this was fraudulent,  whatever  the contract said. They believed that Blemain was 
effectively stealing  their money.
Mr and Mrs P paid off their loan and it was closed on 11 February. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs P feel very strongly that Blemain didnt treat them fairly, and 
that it was very wrong to have charged  them interest  to 21 February  2019,  when  theyd paid 
off their loan in full before  that, some ten days earlier. And I also understand why they were 
annoyed to have been told there wouldnt be any fees, and then to find they were going to 
be charged £150.
Interest charged  on a monthly  basis, to a date after Mr and Mrs P had paid off their loan
But I need to explain that there are some things  this service cant  look at. One of those is 
that we dont order a bank  to change its lending policies, which  borrowers sign up to accept 
when they take out a loan. Blemains policies  included  the fact that it charged  interest  in 
monthly chunks, not on a daily basis. Its the role of the regulator,  the Financial 
As the investigator  explained, Mr and Mrs P can get in touch with the regulator, the FCA, if 
theyd like to discuss Blemains policies,  but that wouldnt involve looking specifically at their 
case.
Ref: DRN22068353What I have done is check whether Blemain had told Mr and Mrs P about how it worked, and 
whether it had applied the policy correctly. As Ive quoted in the background section above, 
Blemain had included  this in the terms and conditions which Mr and Mrs P signed up to 
when they took out the loan. And Blemain applied the interest in line with that policy.  So its 
not open to me to find that Blemain did anything wrong by charging Mr and Mrs P interest  to 
21 February 2019.
Charging Mr and Mrs P £150 fees after telling them there wouldnt be any fees on 
redemption
Blemains adviser  should  have made it clear to Mr and Mrs P that, even though there  
wouldnt be any early repayment  charge  on their loan, there would be an admin fee of £150. 
She didnt  do so. Blemain accepted its adviser  had made a mistake in not telling Mr and Mrs 
P. It paid them £50 for its mistake, but it believed the £150 fee should still be charged.
Ive checked the relevant documents to see whether the fee should  have  been  charged.  
Section 2 (b) of the terms and conditions says:
The borrower also agrees to pay the lender
(b) all legal  and other costs, charges and expensesthat the lender incurs in connection  
with theadministration of this agreement.
The note on the back of the redemption  quote describes the repayment administration fee 
saying this fee covers  the administration costs associated with the redemption  of a 
mortgage or loan account. This fee is disclosed in the mortgage offer or loan agreement and 
is confirmed in our Tariff of Charges.
I asked Blemain to provide  me with a copy of its Tariff of Charges, as they applied in January 
2019. The document it provided said that the lender may (rather than will)  charge £150  
as a redemption  admin  fee. So I asked when it would and wouldnt charge the fee. Blemain 
confirmed that it always  charges  the fee except for properties in Scotland where the fee was 
payable through  the solicitor. As Mr and Mrs Ps property was in England, and the fee level 
was shown as £150, I find that Blemain charged  this fairly.  
So the fee which Blemain charged  Mr and Mrs P was set out in the terms and conditions,  
and it was charged at the correct level.
Ive considered how much compensation would  be fair and reasonable for the fact that 
Blemains adviser  gave Mr and Mrs P the wrong  information about fees. Although  the 
adviser made a mistake and should  have  pointed out that there would be an admin  fee on 
redemption, the fee was genuinely payable, and the mistake was corrected relatively  quickly.  
So I consider that the £50 which Blemain has paid Mr and Mrs P was fair for the advisers  
error.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not require  Blemain Finance Limited, trading as Together,  to do 
anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Ref: DRN22068354Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2206835