K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Debt Managers (Services) Limited (DMSL) took court  action against 
him, resulting in a County Court  Judgement  (CCJ) being incorrectly registered  against him.
background
DMSL were successful in obtaining a CCJ against  Mr H in July 2018. Following a complaint 
from Mr H, DMSL found that that the debt that they were chasing was against the wrong  
person and that the CCJ had been  incorrectly applied.  Mr H paid a £255  Court fee to have 
the CCJ set aside. Before this process was completed, DMSL informed the Court of their 
error, and the CCJ was set aside in September 2018.
Mr H complained to DMSL about them  failing  to complete a proper person trace when 
chasing their debt, the CCJ being  incorrectly applied, and the impact on him because  of the 
error. DMSL  offered  £1,000,  and a refund of the £255 Court fee, in settlement of Mr Hs 
complaint. Mr H rejected  this saying that the compensation amount  should be a lot higher 
because of the trouble and upset hed experienced. 
Our investigator didnt  think we should  be investigating this complaint because  the rules  that 
we follow  say we can dismiss a complaint where  the subject matter of the complaint had 
been the subject matter  of court proceedings where there has been a decision on the merit. 
Mr H didnt agree with this, and provided  additional  comments. I issued a final decision on 
jurisdiction on 15 August 2019 which  explained  a Court had already determined  that Mr H 
owed DMSL money, and then that this order should  be set aside. So this service  should only 
investigate whether fair compensation  has been  awarded for what went  wrong. A copy of the 
provisional and final decision  on jurisdiction is enclosed  with this final decision. 
Mr H provided  details  of the financial and emotional impact caused  to himself, Mrs H, and his 
business because  of DMSLs incorrect application  of a CCJ against  him. Mr H said he had 
booked to go on a family  holiday  in August 2018 but him and his son didnt go ahead  with it. 
Mr H says that he had to stay back to try and get the CCJ set aside. Mr H also referred to 
the financial losses incurred by his business, and impact on Mrs H in dealing with the stress  
of what had happened, and helping Mr H to put things right. 
The investigator found that the total compensation should be increased to £1,350  in 
recognition of Mr H not being able to go on his family  holiday  as planned. The investigator 
also said that DMSL  should refund the Court fee of £255. The investigator  explained  that we 
would only be able to ask DMSL to pay for compensation for any trouble or upset caused to 
him- not his business. The investigator also found that we wouldnt ask DMSL  to pay for any 
impact on third parties,  such  as Mrs H. 
Ref: DRN28307572DMSL responded  to the investigators  findings saying the total compensation should  be 
increased to £4,005 (inclusive of the Court fee refund of £255). This included £1,500 for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr H because of the way DMSL had mis-handled the CCJ 
application. DMSL  also offered £1,800 (£900 for each  person)  as Mr H and his son had 
missed out on the family the holiday  theyd  planned for. DMSL  also offered £450 to 
compensate for Mrs Hs experience on the holiday as shed spent  a lot of her time contacting 
Mr H to get the CCJ set aside. DMSL also agreed to refund the £255 Court  fee. 
The investigator found the £1,350 recommended was fair. Mr H disagreed with this. As part 
of Mr Hs comments he also referred to the service  provided by the solicitors involved with 
applying the CCJ.  The investigator explained  the solicitors dont fall under our jurisdiction. 
Ive dealt with these comments in my findings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence  Ive 
reached a different outcome  to that reached by the investigator. Although  Ive reached a 
different outcome, the compensation Im directing is the same  as what  DMSL has already 
offered. As Mr H has already had the opportunity to consider this (and asked for decision by 
an ombudsman) Ive issued a final decision on the case. 
Its not disputed  that DMSL couldve  handled things better. As explained in my final decision 
on jurisdiction, my findings are based on what I think is fair compensation for what  went 
wrong. 
Ive dealt with the issues  on jurisdiction separately.  
Jurisdiction over impact on Mr Hs business 
Mr H says he nearly lost control  of the business  he founded over 20 years ago [DMSL] 
should offer recompense for two months  of lost business opportunities. The investigator 
explained that we wouldnt be able to compensate  Mr H for the financial losses  suffered by 
his business. This is because Mr Hs business is not an eligible consumer for the purposes 
of this complaint.  For Mr Hs business  to be an eligible consumer, Mr Hs business would 
need to have a relationship with DMSL.  On the facts  of this case, I cant  say it does. So I 
agree with the investigators findings,  that we cant look at this part of Mr Hs complaint.  
Jurisdiction over impact on Mrs H
Mr H has also explained that Mrs H, as a result, suffered from insomnia and anxiety, 
particularly as her husband  was the main breadwinner for the family and the familys income 
was at real risk of disappearing and that Mrs H attended ten weekly counselling  sessions 
towards the end of 2018 to try and come to terms with what  had happened  and the effect it 
had had on her husband,  their marriage,  her family and also on her own credit worthiness as 
her credit rating (through  a joint mortgage with her husband) had been affected by the CCJ. 
I dont doubt the experience with DMSL  left Mrs H feeling troubled  and caused a lot of upset. 
Although its not disputed  that Mrs H had a lot of dealings  with DMSL, we dont have  the 
power to ask a business to pay for the impact  caused to a third party,  like Mrs H. In this 
case, DMSLs offer includes at least a partial  payment for the impact  on Mrs H. 
Ref: DRN28307573Jurisdiction over solicitors
Mr H says that the solicitors involved with the CCJ have apologised for their handling of the 
claim. We can only deal with complaints about a business thats regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  The solicitors dont fall under the jurisdiction of this service so Im unable  
to deal with any complaints  about  them. Mr H may wish to contact the Legal Ombudsman  to 
see if the complaint  about the solicitors  is something they can help with. 
Compensation for impact on Mr H
Mr H has explained that he became  very depressed, refused to socialise with friends  and 
was extremely irritable and became a shell of his former self He has also described how this
complaint has taken  months to work through and weeks and weeks of prolonged, but 
necessary, administration and research time trying to remove the CCJ, find[ing] out what had 
happened and why it had happened.
Ive taken on board everything Mr H has explained about how the experience  with DMSL,  
and trying to get the CCJ set aside, put him through a lot of inconvenience and stress. I can 
see Mr Hs point about how this experience  took its toll on Mr Hs well-being and focus. In 
considering the overall offer for £4,005 from DMSL, I think this amount is fair, and I wont  be 
asking DMSL to pay anything more. 
Mr H has explained that the flights alone were £900 each. Ive seen Mr H had booked  a villa 
based on four people  sharing in January  2018.  Because of what happened, Mr H and his 
son didnt go on holiday as intended.  DMSL agreed to pay compensation in recognition of Mr 
H and his son not going on holiday as planned,  plus an additional  50% of the cost of travel 
for Mrs H in recognition of the time she spent supporting Mr H whilst she was on holiday.  
Mr H spent a lot of time and effort in having the CCJ set aside. I agree that the decision not 
to go on holiday with his family was driven  by the need to get the CCJ set aside as soon as 
possible. So I think its fair that DMSL offer compensation for Mr H missing out on his travel 
plans. I think refunding the cost of Mr Hs ticket, in addition to paying £1,500  as 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused, goes far enough in recognising the impact 
on Mr H for DMSLs errors.  
We wouldnt ask a business to award compensation for the impact on a third party.  But I can 
see that part of DMSLs  compensation  offer includes payment for the impact on Mrs H and 
the children. As this offer has been  made  I think its fair that this amount remains part of the 
compensation offered by DMSL in resolution  of Mr Hs complaint. 
Refund of Court fee
Mr H has explained that There are also £255  in court costs  outstanding, which  Mr H was 
forced to pay to have  the CCJ set aside. I agree DMSL should  refund this fee. I can see 
they have agreed  to do this as part of the compensation offered.  
Ref: DRN28307574my final decision
For the reasons  explained I uphold this complaint. 
Debt Managers (Services) Limited  should pay Mr H £4,005 as compensation for incorrectly 
applying a CCJ against him. This amount includes the cost of the Court fee of £255 incurred 
by Mr H for applying to the Court to have the CCJ set aside. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman
my final findings (jurisdiction)
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  reviewed the evidence its my final decision that we should 
Ref: DRN28307575consider Mr Hs complaint,  but our investigation should be limited to what compensation should be 
paid to Mr H for what  went wrong. 
A copy of my provisional  decision is attached below and forms part of this decision. As Mr H made 
some additional comments in response to my provisional decision Ill address these.
Mr H has provided comments about the mis-trace, and the CCJ being  applied without  notice. Mr H 
feels strongly that this service  should  investigate these  issues as theyre  likely  to have an impact on 
the amount of compensation awarded. 
When assessing  the amount  of compensation that should be paid to Mr H, this service wont be 
investigating the Court  process,  and the lack of opportunity  Mr H had to defend himself. Its accepted  
by both Mr H and DMSL that DMSL  did something wrong. So this service will be looking at the impact 
on Mr H.
Mr H has provided further information about the impact on Mrs H. As this evidence relates  to the 
amount of compensation that should be awarded, not the decision on dismissal, Ive not provided any 
further comments here. This service will consider this evidence when making a decision about  
compensation. 
my decision
My decision  is that this this service should consider the merits of Mr Hs complaint  limited  to whether 
fair compensation has been awarded  for what went wrong.
Now Ive made my decision,  the investigator can begin  to look into Mr Hs complaint.
my provisional  findings  (jurisdiction)
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  reviewed the evidence its my provisional  decision that we 
should consider Mr Hs complaint, but our decision  on merits  should be limited to what compensation 
should be paid to Mr H for what went wrong. 
Ref: DRN28307576Its not disputed that a Court  has already  determined  that Mr H owes DMSL money, and then that this 
order should be set aside. Mr H says that as the application to set aside didnt involve  Mr H providing 
any evidence, the Court didnt  consider why and how DMSL made an error in tracing the wrong 
person. Mr H feels strongly that this should be investigated because without  this investigation,  and 
potential punishment No significant, if any, blame  or liability would have  been apportioned  to DMSL 
I fully appreciate what Mr H has said about not having the opportunity to explain his side of the story 
about what happened. Mr H feels strongly that because the Court process  didnt  require DMSL to 
check that the CCJ had been being applied  against the correct person; this should be looked into, and 
commented on by this service. 
I fully appreciate that because of DMSLs error, the CCJ was incorrectly  registered against Mr H. 
However, this has now been set aside. I appreciate because the CCJ was set aside without a hearing, 
DMSL didnt  explain why an error had been made, or the cause of it. However, its not for this service  
to tell a Court what to consider, or what process to follow  before making a decision.  As the CCJ was 
granted, and set aside by the Court, it wouldnt be appropriate  for this service  to comment  on the 
Courts procedures  or processes.
Ive seen that Mr H has provided extensive comments about DMSL  tracing  the wrong person. Mr H 
has also provided  detailed information about there being  database  errors which resulted in an 
incorrect trace. Ive considered these comments, and fully appreciate  why Mr H feels  strongly that it 
shouldnt happen  to anyone else.  Mr H says part of the reason for wanting a full investigation of 
DMSLs processes, is for it to be used as an example to promote better  practice and understanding 
within the debt industry and to educate consumers  as to their rights.
When making a decision on what we should  look at, its important that I consider our powers, and 
what weve been set up to do. The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to investigate  
individual complaints,  and award compensation when we think a customer has been impacted  by 
something the business has done  wrong. The impact that we investigate, and award  a remedy for, is 
the impact on the customer. 
The power  to investigate complaints about issues that impact on the wider public  belongs to the 
regulator, in this case,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mr H has referred  to DMSL being  held 
accountable for tracing the wrong  person,  and that this looks  like a widespread  issue within the 
business. It would be the role of the FCA to consider this complaint, and determine what action to 
take. Its not the role of this service to look into or punish a business for regulatory failings, because  
its not something we have  the power to do. 
Mr H has also referenced the Credit  Services Association Code of Practice  (CSCP),  and the codes of 
practice he believes  have been breached by DMSL. Mr H can contact CSCP  with this part of his 
complaint, as we wouldnt be able to fairly  investigate, and penalise DMSL, for any breaches.
For the reasons  provided Im currently minded to find that I dont think this service should investigate  
whether DMSL acted fairly in applying  for the CCJ,  as a Court has already made a decision on the 
CCJ- both being applied and set aside. However Ive seen that Mr H was caused trouble and upset 
because of the CJ being  applied incorrectly, and it would  be reasonable for this service to investigate  
whether fair compensation has been paid to Mr H in recognition of what  went  wrong.  
If this provisional decision  is accepted  by both parties, Mr H will be asked to provide evidence of his 
losses so that this can be investigated further.  DMSL will be presented with this evidence so that they 
can make  an offer to settle  the complaint at any stage of our process. 
Ive seen that part of the compensation requested by Mr H relates  to the trouble and upset caused to 
Mrs H. I should make  both parties aware  that its unusual for this service to award  compensation  for 
trouble and upset caused to a third party representative. There are some situations where it may be 
fair to do this, but I wanted  to make  both parties aware of our general  position to manage 
expectations at this stage. 
Ref: DRN28307577my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that this this service  should accept Mr Hs complaint for investigation,  whilst 
keeping in mind the two Court decisions. If this provisional decision is accepted by both parties,  this 
service will only investigate  whether fair compensation has been awarded for what  went  wrong.
Ref: DRN2830757