K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the way her home insurance claim has been  handled by UK 
Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
Mrs M unfortunately suffered a break-in  at her home in November 2017.  It appears the 
burglar broke the rear gate of Mrs Ms property and then entered  her residence by breaking  
the glass panel of one of the patio doors. Mrs M suffered the loss of several items as a result 
of the burglary. As well as further  damage  to her property.
Mrs M reported  this to UKI. UKI arranged  for an engineer  to attend Mrs Ms property  to make 
it secure. This happened  about four hours after Mrs M had contacted  UKI. And the engineer  
affixed chipboard to cover the broken glass panel of the patio door.  
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  with the works done  and didnt consider the property to have been 
made secure. 
Further visits were made  by different engineers. As well as further boarding to the first patio  
door (with the broken  glass panel),  the second  patio  door at the rear of the property was 
screwed shut. This was done  as the locking mechanism of this door was no longer  fully 
operational. 
Mrs M also wasnt happy with the actions  taken to secure the garden  gate. This process  took 
several days, and involved  UKIs locksmith attending in an unmarked van. Ultimately, Mrs M 
arranged for the repairs to the gate as well as for some of the internal repair works. 
UKI has settled the majority of Mrs Ms claim. However, she remains unhappy with the 
settlement offered in relation to the patio doors.  UKIs  offer was to replace the first patio 
door, but not the second. Mrs M felt the second door had been damaged  during  the break in, 
but UKIs  conclusion was that the issues with this door were as a result  of wear and tear. 
Mrs M was also unsatisfied with the quality of the replacement door offered. 
Our investigator considered that the actions taken  my UKI were  in line with what  she would 
expect an insurer to have  to do in similar  circumstances. She also felt the report  obtained by 
UKI on the patio doors showed  that the lock on the second door was no longer working due 
to its age, and not as a result of any damage caused  during the break in. And that the report 
also indicated the proposed replacement  door was of a similar quality to the original door. 
As such,  the investigator didnt  think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed 
and her complaint  has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
It is clear from the evidence that Mrs M was very concerned about her safety and the 
security of her home following the break in. This is entirely  understandable, so Im not 
Ref: DRN28322882surprised when she chased UKI up to carry out additional works to secure  her property after 
the first engineer  had been  on site. 
But I think, in the round, UKI acted appropriately  during  this period. I agree that there  were  
times where  more couldve  been  done in the first instance. But, largely  speaking,  I consider 
UKI carried out its responsibilities to attend  and secure Mrs Ms property in a reasonable 
timeframe. 
The initial visit was within a few hours  of Mrs M contacting UKI. Due to the late hour, and 
noise being caused by the works, I dont consider it surprising  that a further  visit was 
required the day after. 
There were some issues with the locking  of the garden gate, and UKI has accepted that the 
locksmith attending in an unmarked  van shouldve  been avoided.  But UKI acted  to correct 
this in a reasonable manner. And overall  I dont consider  these issues  to be material  enough 
to uphold this complaint.  
In terms of whether  the second patio  door shouldve been included  in the settlement offer;  as 
the investigator has explained  our role is to consider whether UKI has acted appropriately in 
gathering the evidence  it needs to make  its decision on the claim and then come to an 
appropriate conclusion  based on that evidence. 
UKI instructed a specialist company to assess the doors and determine the most likely cause 
of damage. This report concluded  that the locking  mechanism  on the second patio doors had 
failed due to wear and tear. Significantly, the report also stated that there  was no damage to 
the frame which would  be seen is the doors  had been forced  open (which  is what Mrs M 
contends to be the cause  of the damage).  
I consider, in making its decision, it was reasonable for UKI to rely on a report  from a 
specialist company. And Mrs M hasnt provided any contradictory report to make me 
consider the conclusions reached were incorrect. So I think  it was appropriate for UKI to rely 
on the conclusions  reached in the report. 
As the investigator  has pointed out, the terms of Mrs Ms insurance  policy  say UKI won't pay 
to replace or alter any undamaged items  solely because they are a part of a set". I have 
though considered whether it is fair, in all of the circumstances of this particular case,  for UKI 
to apply this term to Mrs Ms claim. 
I have taken into account the fact that the two patio doors were located  on the same wall, 
although they are separated. Ive also considered that the offered replacement  for the first 
patio door was based on an aluminium frame (which  the existing door had). However,  the 
key point for me is that the locking mechanism on the second door was no longer working, 
and this locking  mechanism was (according to the specialist report)  no longer available.  So, 
in order to have  an operational  second patio door, Mrs M would have to replace this anyway.  
It doesnt seem fair or reasonable to expect  UKI to cover the cost of replacing  an item that 
wasnt damaged  as a result of an insured event, when that item needed to be replaced  by 
the policyholder  anyway.  As such, I dont consider UKI should  waive  the terms of its policy 
and so be required to include the cost of the second  patio  door on the basis that it was part 
of a set. 
Ref: DRN28322883Mrs Ms buildings policy  doesnt  cover wear and tear. As the specialist report concluded the 
second door wasnt working properly due to wear  and tear, and I consider it was appropriate 
for UKI to rely on this report, I also consider it was fair and reasonable for UKI not to include 
the cost of this door in its settlement. 
Mrs M is also unsatisfied  with the settlement amount offered in terms of the first patio door. 
She feels the original  door was of a higher quality than the settlement is based  on, and 
obtained quotes higher  than the settlement  offer from specialist glazing companies.  
However, the patio  doors were installed prior to Mrs M moving into the property, so she 
hasnt been able to confirm whether they were installed by a comparable specialist 
company. And in coming  to its settlement  offer, UKI has relied on the findings  of the report, 
which included estimated cost of replacement of a similar quality door.  
UKI is only required by the policy to offer a settlement amount based on the cost it would 
incur to replace  the relevant item.  In determining this cost, I think  UKI was entitled  to rely on 
the report it received.  As such, I havent  been provided with anything  to demonstrate UKIs 
offer was not fair or reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2832288