K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about Monecor (London)  Ltd, trading as ETX Capital.  He complains that in
2018, ETX failed to execute his instructions to trade his Contracts for Differences (CFDs)
causing him financial loss.
background
Mr P had a CFD trading account with ETX since January  2012.  He was an elective
professional client  with extensive experience.
Mr P says he contacted  ETX in June  2018 with instructions  to sell the CFD equivalent  of
30,000 shares  in a company Ill call A. In the call, he specified  he wanted  to trade at market
in the opening auction. The instruction  was specifically to sell at auction to achieve an
uncrossing price. The trade  was filled at $36 a share but Mr P said he was expecting the
uncrossed price to be $37.20.
When he initially called, he was told the shares  uncrossed price was $36, but in a
subsequent call he was told that ETX wasnt aware why their trades  in the underlying had
settled at a different price and this was something they were pursuing with their broker.  In his
final call before complaining, ETX told Mr P that it wasnt in fact possible to place an order
specifically at auction, and that his order was triggered and executed  as a market order at
the next market  price.
ETX say the trade was correctly executed  at a price of $36. This is the price that they say
was available  to them. They explained that they use a smart order  router  via a third party  to
achieve optimal results. They say the execution is in line with the Order Execution  Policy
which outlines their commitment to providing the best possible outcome when executing
clients orders and treating customers fairly.
Unhappy with ETXs response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. The investigator at
this service said that ETX had accepted Mr Ps instructions in advance of the auction.  He
accepted that $36 was the price  received  from ETXs broker but also that any detriment from
the arrangement  with their broker should not be passed to Mr P. He said ETX should honour
the level Mr Ps positions should have filled at, being  $37.20.  He also said ETX should pay
Mr P £150  for the inconvenience  caused.  Mr P accepted the investigators view but ETX
didnt agree so this has come to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 February 2020  explaining why I was intending to uphold  
this complaint. I include this below.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
order to trade
Mr P placed  a CFD trade to sell 30,000 shares in company A. He asked for these to be sold
at auction at an uncrossing  price. This instruction  was confirmed and accepted by ETX
ahead of the auction. The execution process  section of the terms and conditions  of the policy
outlines the factors to consider in execution of instructions. ETX are obliged to provide  the
Ref: DRN26737862best execution  taking into account a number of factors.
ETX went to their broker  to execute  the trade  in the market on their behalf.  The broker  uses
a smart order router to find the best way of executing a trade, but the end result  isnt always
the best price  available at the open  market. The price they get isnt the uncrossed  price, its
the market price of $36 and thats  what they give to Mr P. Here  ETX decided to hedge their
exposure and place the same trade  in the underlying market.  Theyve given  some  reasons
which are not unusual.
My understanding is that ETX acts on behalf  of Mr P to trade via the third party as they do
not have direct access to the underlying market. But ETXs terms do state:  we are the
counterparty to all Trades executed using  the Services.  All Trades are on a principal-to 
principal basis, i.e. directly between you and us, and we will inform  you if we deal with you in
any other capacity. Mr Ps instruction was for 30,000 shares in company A to be sold in the
auction, to achieve the uncrossing price.  Im not satisfied  that these trades were executed on
a principal to principal basis. It appears ETX were  acting  as an agent  in this trade and didnt
notify Mr P of this.
ETX accepted Mr Ps instruction in advance of the auction and confirm that In instances
where we use a broker, we will pass on the price that we received from our broker; the price
that the broker executes at is the price  that we then give our client. If no price is available 
(for example the share is in an auction), the next available  price  should be used.  I do 
acknowledge the actual price ETX received from the broker was $36. But as Mr P has no 
direct arrangement with this third party and wasnt made aware  of their involvement in this 
trade, I dont  feel that any detriment from this separate arrangement should be passed  onto 
Mr P.
instructions to sell
Mr P says he specifically asked for the shares to be sold at the auction and so this is what
should have happened.  I have asked ETX to clarify why the shares were not sold at the
auction as the underlying trade is the way they derived the price  they gave to Mr P. ETX said
the trade was too big for their risk limits,  but they accepted the trade when Mr P placed  it and
the risk it presented.  So, the price obtained  also takes into account  the fact that the broker
has hedged the trade in the market  in order to manage their own internal risk limits.
ETX also say Mr P didnt  instruct  them as to the venue for the trade to be executed. This
meant the trade  was filled at the next available price  after the uncrossing, so it wasnt  traded
at the opening auction. But their terms and conditions clearly  say that ETX is the sole
execution venue  for trades executed by them for their clients,  so I dont think Mr P had to 
direct them on the venue.
Its clear that ETX waited to hedge the trade  in the underlying before executing  the trade but
I dont feel that ETX have  provided a satisfactory  response as to why they didnt  place the
trade in the auction in accordance with Mr Ps instructions. This resulted  in Mr P getting a
worse price.  This was the reason why ETX accepted the next available price in the open
market at $36 and not the uncrossing price that was available at the time.
I can see that ETX did obtain  the price of $36 and this is the price they gave to Mr P. But on
the evidence Ive seen, Mr Ps positions  should have  been filled at $37.20  as this is the
uncrossed price that was achieved. I am satisfied that this uncrossed price  could have been
achieved and Mr P says he did obtain this price with other trades  he placed via another
Ref: DRN26737863broker. ETX failed to act according to Mr Ps instructions for the trade  to be executed at
auction and are directly  responsible for Mr P not being able to achieve the uncrossed price
of $37.20. This caused him to suffer a financial loss. So, I think  ETX should make good any
losses by giving Mr P the price he wouldve got being $37.20.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold  this
complaint. To put things right, I would suggest  Monecor (London)  Ltd should:-
Honour the level Mr Ps position  should  have been closed at - $37.20
Pay Mr P £150 for distress and inconvenience.
I provisionally intend to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and award the compensation  Ive
outlined above.  Ill consider any comments I receive  by the date specified  before I issue
my final decision.
responses to my provisional  decision  
Mr P responded to accept the provisional decision.
Monecor didnt agree  with my provisional  decision and said:-  
They had continued to act for Mr P on a principal  to principal basis and not acting as 
an agent. 
Mr P should have specifically instructed them as to the venue for the trade to be 
executed.
Mr P had substantive  knowledge and experience of trading CFDs and is an Elective 
Professional Client and would  have known how his positions  would be executed. 
Mr Ps trade was executed without delay and the best available price was given to 
him.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the information Monecor provided  in response to the provisional  decision.  
I dont think theyve provided any new information that hadnt previously been considered so 
I wont repeat these points again.  As there is nothing further for me to add, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings and make the same findings here.
Ref: DRN26737864my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right,  Monecor (London) 
Ltd should:-
Honour the level Mr Ps position  should  have been closed at - $37.20
Pay Mr P £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2673786