K820x#14complaint
Mr S has consent to let (CTL) on his residential mortgage  (mortgage 1) with Bank of 
Scotland plc. He has another mortgage  (mortgage 2) with a separate  division of BoS, 
Halifax.
Mr S makes  two complaints against BoS.  The first (complaint 1) arises from the resolution of 
an earlier complaint  (the earlier  complaint) with which this decision is not concerned. 
Complaint 1 is set out in Mr Ss complaint form dated 11 January 2019.  The second  
(complaint 2) is set out in his email to our service dated 26 September  2019. This decision 
concerns only one of them, but to avoid confusion I will set them  both out as follows:
Complaint 1
I have been asking  BoS for a product review/better  interest rate for several years.  Every  
time I would ask they would tell me that my mortgage account  was ineligible  for a product 
review as it had a consent to lease on it. I recently  applied for a further  advance  through the 
Halifax to pay BoS off, I got declined but Halifax then agreed to give me a better interest 
rate.
I originally bought the house for me to live in on a residential mortgage with BoS.  
Unfortunately [there were problems with] the neighboursand  I was subjected to physical 
violence and verbal abuse. I tried to sell the house  but there was very little interest and no 
offers. This is the reason I had to move  out and the reason I sought consent to lease.
I have explained  these reasons to BoS and they would only ever renew the consent to lease, 
they would  never agree  to a product review/a better interest rate.
I have effectively been pushed out of my home through  no fault of my own and then being 
penalised for it by the bank. I do not believe that under the circumstances BoS couldn't  have 
done something sooner.
Whilst the UK has had low interest rates I have been paying a high interest rate with BoS. 
Every month  I have been paying excessive interest. I feel that BoS could have offered me a 
better interest rate years earlier - if they can do it now they could have  done  it before but 
chose not to. I would  like for them  to compensate me from the date I originally asked with 
interest.
Complaint 2
My current complaint is that BoS wont allow  me a further advance to release equity so I can 
purchase another property and at no point  did the Halifax or BoS explain to me that agreeing 
to the product transfer would prevent me from exploring a further  advance  with the BoS 
anytime in the future. Yet both banks knew this was something I was considering.
background
This decision concerns  complaint 1. 
Mr S bought his house on a residential mortgage  (mortgage 1) with BoS. Because  of 
problems with the neighbours he tried to sell the house but there was little interest  and no 
offers were  made. He therefore had to move out, and obtained CTL. 
Ref: DRN26080962He subsequently asked BoS for an interest  rate product on mortgage 1, but it said the 
account was ineligible  because of the CTL.  Mr S says that for many years he has been 
seeking an interest-rate  product on mortgage  1, without success. Upset about paying  a high 
rate of interest on mortgage  1, he then applied for a further advance on mortgage 2, 
intending to use the advance in order to redeem mortgage 1.
His application for a further advance on mortgage  2 was refused, so Mr S brought  the earlier 
complaint to BoS. BoS maintained the refusal but as part of the resolution of that complaint, 
it offered to allow Mr S to apply for an interest-rate  product on mortgage  1 despite the CTL. 
This would normally  have been outside its policy.
Mr S now complains that BoS should have offered him the interest-rate product years earlier. 
He says if they can do it now, they could have done it before but chose  not to. He would like 
BoS to compensate him by retrospectively  applying the rate he originally asked for with 
interest.
As our investigator didnt  think BoS had done anything wrong, Mr S has asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When BoS previously refused Mr Ss requests for an interest-rate product on mortgage  1, 
that was because of the CTL.  BoS doesnt offer residential interest-rate products on CTL 
mortgages. Thats its policy and Im not persuaded  that the earlier refusals  were  designed to 
penalise Mr S or take advantage of him as he suggests. It made an exception  in this 
instance to assist Mr Ss circumstances.
Lenders are obliged to treat borrowers  fairly  but that doesnt create  an obligation to allow  
exceptions to legitimate  lending  policies.
BoS notes confirm that it made a one-off exception to its policy as part of the resolution it 
offered to the earlier complaint, because  Mr S was attempting to improve his financial 
situation but was unable  to get a mortgage  elsewhere owing to credit problems. But that 
doesnt make it fair for me to order BoS to backdate it.
I dont know the terms of the letting or whether it would have been open  to Mr S to terminate 
the letting and the CTL in order  to obtain residential interest-rate products. But I assume this 
wasnt an option for the very reasons he made this arrangement in the first place.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2608096