K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
1997. The PPI was added to the account  sometime after Mr D took out the store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr D says FICL mis-sold  him the PPI. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the complaint.  Mr D 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr D says he wasnt told the PPI was optional. Ive considered  what hes said but Ive 
also looked at the other evidence available to come to a decision on what  I think  is more  
likely to have happened. The PPI was taken over the phone  some months after the store  
card account had been set up. Unfortunately due to the length  of time thats passed 
there is no call recording  for me to listen to  so I cant  say what exactly  was discussed 
at the time. But as Mr D already had the credit in place I think  he wouldve known the PPI 
was an optional extra and not a condition of having the store  card. And without any 
evidence to persuade me otherwise, I think its unlikely FICL wouldve added  the PPI to 
her account without her permission.  
So based  on the evidence Ive seen  and without any stronger evidence to the contrary, I 
think FICL made it clear  that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr D got the information  he needed to decide  if the 
PPI was right for him.
Mr D says he wasnt told about the terms and conditions of the policy. And I think  its 
possible the information FICL gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. So I dont  think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Mr D says he was entitled to generous sick pay from his employer. Upon a successful 
claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mr Ds outstanding monthly balance for up to 12 
months and in addition to his sick pay. So these funds couldve been used for other  
expenses. And Mr D told us that his sick pay reduced to half after the initial  six months, 
Ref: DRN29881522so I think the PPI wouldve been  especially useful  if he was out of work for more than six 
months.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2988152