K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that BISL Limited caused delays at the start of his claim. He says the delays 
meant that CCTV evidence was no longer  available to support his claim.
background
Mr Ps wife, who is a named driver  on the policy, was involved in an accident  on 5 November  
2017. Mr and Mrs P say that the third party  driver admitted liability  for the accident at the 
scene. 
On 6 November  2017 they called BISL  (the broker)  to start the claim and informed it about 
the third partys admission  of fault.  During the call BISL told them they could choose  to 
speak to their insurer directly or they could be referred  to a credit  hire company (CH) to deal 
with the claim, and they wouldnt have to pay their excess. 
Mr and Mrs P chose  the second option.  BISL told Mr P that CH would be in contact with him 
within two hours. CH did call Mr P that day but he was unable to take the call. He called CH 
back the next day (7 November 2017), but the person he spoke to couldnt find his details. 
So Mr P called BISL again,  it told him CH would call him back, it didnt. Mr P then called 
BISL again on 9 November 2017 and was transferred  through to CH.
On 10 November 2017 CH called the third party insurer, and it disputed liability. CH then told 
Mr P that as liability was in dispute  it wouldnt be able to help and he would  need  to speak to 
his insurer directly to handle the claim. 
Once the insurer took over the claim, CCTV footage was requested from the local authority 
as it was thought  that it would support Mrs Ps version of events, and would help his insurer  
to defend the claim. 
Unfortunately, the local authority only keeps CCTV footage for seven days and it was no 
longer available, so his insurer had to settle the claim on a 50/50  split liability basis.
Mr P believes if there hadnt been delays in contact  from CH, then he wouldve gone to his 
insurer sooner and the CCTV evidence wouldve been available. 
Mr P complained to BISL, he wanted  it to compensate him for the poor service and for the 
claim to now be recorded  as non-fault.
BISL offered  £50 compensation  for the inconvenience it had caused. Mr P was unhappy with 
this and so brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator  didnt uphold  the complaint;  he 
thought BISL had done enough.  Mr P disagreed and so the matter has been referred to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Ref: DRN25122292Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
BISL is a broker and is not involved  in how a claim is settled,  that is for insurers. So BISL 
would never  be able to change the way the claim is recorded. But I have considered whether 
BISL actions prejudiced  the outcome of Mr Ps claim, with his insurer. 
The window for obtaining CCTV evidence was seven days. So I have considered what 
BISLs involvement was in during  those  first seven days:
Day 1  Mrs P is involved in an accident
Day 2  Mr and Mrs P report to BISL. CH call Mr P, but he isnt able to take the call
Day 3  Mr P called  CH, but it couldnt find his details
Day 4  Mr P called  BISL and was promised  a call back   he didnt get one
Day 5  Mr P called  BISL and is put through to CH
Day 6  CH tell Mr P it cant help with the claim
Having looked  at this I can see BISL  did make mistakes in contacting Mr P, but Im satisfied 
those mistakes didnt directly affect how Mr Ps claim was eventually settled by his insurer. 
Ill explain  why.
Mr P had the choice  to go to his insurer directly from the beginning, and chose  not to. There  
is no guarantee his insurer  wouldve applied for the CCTV footage  in time. The existence of 
CCTV footage  being  available was not discussed  in the call when Mr P reported the claim; I 
think this was probably because Mr P thought  the third party would accept liability as theyd 
indicated to Mrs P they would. And so there was no need for it to be mentioned. So even if 
Mr P had gone directly  to his insurer to report the claim I dont think the call wouldve gone  
any differently. And there wouldve been  no need to consider it until the third party disputed 
liability, by which time it still may have  been too late to get it.
Even if the CCTV evidence was available there  is no certainty that it would show  the third 
party was liable for the accident or even if the accident was captured  by the cameras.  And 
so I cant say that BISL actions led to the insurers decision  to settle the claim on the split 
liability basis.
Based on this I think the £50 BISL offered to compensate Mr P for the inconvenience it 
caused with the mistakes  it made  around  contact is fair in the circumstances and I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2512229