K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that CIS General Insurance Limited has considered him at fault under his 
motor insurance policy  following  an accident. He wants the monies  due to him.
background
Mr A was turning right at traffic lights when an oncoming car collided  with his. CIS 
investigated the claim and held Mr A at fault as it said he had the greater duty of care as he 
was turning across  the path of the other driver. Mr A is represented in this matter by his 
mother, Ms A.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  CIS 
had reasonably investigated  the claim and considered  the evidence  available  before 
reaching its decision. She thought  it had reasonably  thought that it wouldnt be able to 
defend the claim  in court. So it had agreed to accept  liability  on Mr As behalf, as it was 
entitled to do by the policy terms and conditions. This was on a without prejudice  basis, 
leaving it open to Mr A to take the matter  to court at his own cost if he so wished. 
Ms A replied that her son wasnt at fault. She said there was animosity between the other 
drivers passengers and her son, so their testimony couldnt be regarded as objective. Ms A 
said that the other driver  had been speeding, jumped a red light,  and had initially  told the 
police that he had no passengers. Ms A thought  the other driver would have dash cam 
footage. Ms A asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the effects of this accident on Mr A. I can understand that this must 
have been a frightening  experience with severe consequences for him. I can see that Ms A 
is adamant that Mr A wasnt at fault for the accident which  I can see occurred two years ago. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
CIS is entitled under the terms  and conditions of its policy  with Mr A to take over,  defend, or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr A has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim,  whether he agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
I think CIS reasonably investigated the claim. It looked at the engineers report, photographs 
taken after the collision, the drivers versions  of events, the witness statements, the police 
report, the road layout and traffic lights. 
Ref: DRN21323382Ms A thought there could  have been  a dash cam in the other car. But I cant see that there 
was any dash cam or CCTV footage  available  for CIS to consider. I cant see that CIS was 
told that there was a dash cam in the other drivers car. If there had been  dash cam footage,  
I think its unlikely to be available  more than a month after an incident. 
CIS looked at the road layout and thought Mr A had good visibility of oncoming traffic.  It 
thought a court would likely find that Mr A should have seen the other drivers car 
approaching. 
Ms A said the other driver  was speeding  and jumped the red light whilst Mr A turned right on 
a green light that changed to amber as he crossed. But CIS said there was no filter light to 
tell Mr A that it was safe to cross the other drivers path. It thought it likely that the other 
drivers light was green  as well. I havent seen any evidence to show  that it was red. The 
speed of the other driver couldnt be established. 
The other drivers passengers were fare paying and unrelated to him. So CIS thought their 
evidence would be given  greater weight in court as they were independent. They  supported 
the other drivers version of events. Ms A said there was animosity between them and her 
son. But I havent seen evidence that this affected their statements.  
Ms A also provided a video of the other  driver and his passengers walking unaided after the 
accident. She thought this meant they werent hurt in the accident. But I dont  think  its 
unusual for injuries  to be evident some time after an accident and I can see that CIS 
considered medical  reports to substantiate this. So I dont think Ms As point is significant.
Ms A thought it relevant  that the other  drivers statement to police doesnt  have  an entry for 
number of passengers  whilst two witness statements were later produced.  But I dont think 
this is relevant as Mr As police statement also has no entry for number of passengers whilst 
he had one. In any case, the police officer completed the forms so I cant hold the other  
driver responsible for any gaps. 
The police didnt  take any action against Mr A concerning his manner  of driving. But this 
doesnt mean that CIS cant  hold him at fault for the accident as its decision isnt made  under 
criminal law. The police statement didnt offer any evidence for CIS to consider as it 
confirmed each drivers version  of events. 
I can see from its file notes  that CIS first challenged the other  drivers insurer  about liability.  It 
then further considered the evidence and decided  that it wouldnt be able to defend Mr A if 
the matter went to court. It thought a court would decide that the greater onus  was on Mr A 
to take care as he was turning across  the path of an oncoming car. So it held him at fault 
and settled the other drivers claim. 
So I think CIS reasonably  investigated the claim and considered the evidence available  
before deciding to settle the other drivers claim and hold Mr A at fault. I think  its entitled  to 
do this by the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say its done anything  wrong. 
As CIS didnt admit liability and settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis,  this leaves it 
open to Mr A to pursue  the matter at his own cost, if he so wishes. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  CIS to do anything  further. 
Ref: DRN21323383my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2132338