K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about her mortgage account with Landmark  Mortgages Limited 
(trading as NRAM plc and referred to here as NRAM). Mrs A says the mortgage  was mis-
sold. Mrs A is also unhappy that the capital balance has not reduced as she expected  over 
the term of the mortgage. Mrs A is also unhappy about NRAMs customer  service and says 
that NRAM has had complete  disregard  for her as the customer.
background
In January 2005, after taking advice from a mortgage broker,  Mrs A took out a 3-year  fixed 
rate mortgage with NRAM. It was in the joint names of Mrs A and her then partner. She 
transferred onto a new mortgage product in her sole name in 2007  when the initial fixed rate 
expired. No advice  was given by NRAM about  this.
In 2018 Mrs A complained to NRAM. She said the mortgage had been mis-sold in 2005.  Mrs 
A was unhappy that, despite  having  paid so much  over the term of the mortgage,  there  was 
still a substantial outstanding debt. She wanted NRAM to account to her for this. Mrs A also 
raised her concerns  with NRAM about the way it had treated her.
NRAM didnt uphold  the complaint, so Mrs A contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
An investigator looked at the complaint, but he didnt think NRAM had done anything wrong. 
He noted that Mrs A had acknowledged  that the mortgage had been sold by a broker,  not 
NRAM. 
The investigator looked at the complaint about  the account balance.  He noted  that there had 
been several payment breaks during the course  of the mortgage  term. He was satisfied that 
these would have  had an impact on the mortgage balance. He was also satisfied  that NRAM 
had explained  this to Mrs A in correspondence sent to her at the time.
Mrs A didnt agree with the investigators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Ref: DRN25226462sale of the mortgage : The mortgage  was sold in 2005 by a broker,  not by NRAM. I see that 
in August 2018 NRAM forwarded Mrs As complaint about the sale of the mortgage  to the 
broker for it to respond to. So I will not comment on this further.
mortgage balance and payment  breaks:  Mrs A says that shes  paid about  £190,000 to 
NRAM over the years,  which she considers  excessive, given the borrowing is only around 
£213,000. She thinks this is unfair.
This is a capital repayment  loan, otherwise known as an amortising loan, which means  that 
in the initial  years, payments are made  up mostly of interest, with a small amount of capital. 
Over the course of the loan, more capital is repaid. But where payments are missed or 
suspended on a payment break,  this affects the speed at which the capital  is repaid  and so 
has an effect on the capital balance of the mortgage.
Looking at the 2007 mortgage offer, this shows that (on interest  rates applicable at the time), 
on a total loan amount of just over £220,000  Mrs A would  be paying a total of £446,129.84  
over the term of the mortgage (just over 22 years). 
Interest rates have  fallen  since, but Mrs A has also taken payment breaks. Im satisfied 
NRAM explained in writing the implications  for the mortgage account  of taking payments 
breaks, in that the missed repayments, plus interest,  would be added to the balance  and 
would need to be repaid  by the end of the term.
I can see that NRAM gave consideration to the payment break  requests.  On one occasion, 
the decision that the payment break wouldnt be in Mrs As best interests  was overridden 
and the break was approved. I dont  think this is evidence of any wrongdoing on NRAMs 
part. It shows that NRAM reconsidered the request based on Mrs As circumstances.
Overall, looking at the account  history,  Im not persuaded by Mrs As arguments that the 
account balance  is incorrect. The amount  shes paid in the 11 years before the complaint 
was raised is consistent with the decrease  in the mortgage balance, taking into account the 
payment breaks.
It is always open to Mrs A to have  the account .examined by a professional auditor. This 
would need to be at her own expense,  but if the audit reveals errors on the part of NRAM, I 
would expect NRAM to reimburse her for the cost of it, as well as putting those errors right. It 
is entirely up to Mrs A as to whether or not she wants to do this.
customer service: Mrs A has complained about  poor customer service, including  sending  a 
letter about  a previous  mortgage account to the wrong address in 2004, and incorrectly 
addressing a letter to her and her ex-husband after her baby was born.  Mrs A also says that 
NRAM gave her incorrect information about  a secured loan.
I accept that there were  some administrative errors. But given these events  occurred several 
years ago, the earliest as far back as 2004,  and no complaint was made about them at the 
time, Im not persuaded there is any basis on which I could fairly  order NRAM to pay any 
compensation for distress or inconvenience. And I have  no power to reprimand or punish 
NRAM for poor customer service,  as this is not within my remit. 
Overall, I think NRAM has treated Mrs A fairly  in relation to its handling of her account, 
including the payment  breaks. I acknowledge Mrs A is likely to disagree with me, but having 
Ref: DRN25226463looked at everything  thats happened impartially and objectively,  Im unable  to conclude  that 
NRAM has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2522646