K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G has complained that TSB Bank  Plc wont refund her for a failed ATM cash withdrawal.
Background
Mrs G tried to withdraw cash using her debit  card whilst abroad on holiday. She said a 
message flashed  across  the screen, in English, saying This  transaction  cannot be 
completed! No cash was dispensed.  She tried another debit card but the same  thing 
happened again. She tried a third time with her credit  card and was successful.
However, the money left her TSB account.  TSB refused to refund her so Mrs G brought  her 
complaint to this service.
I issued my provisional conclusions setting  out the events  leading up to this complaint and 
how I thought  best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy of my provisional decision, which forms 
part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Mrs G disagreed strongly with my provisional  decision. She told us the machine said the 
transaction couldnt be completed and this happened twice. She also told us shes  been a 
loyal customer for several years and has never  made a complaint.
TSB had nothing further to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all thats been  said following my provisional findings,  Im afraid Ive no 
reason to reach a different conclusion. 
I accept that cash machines are not infallible. Errors do occur.  And so where a consumer  
complains they didnt receive cash from an ATM, we will ask for various  data from the ATM 
owner. In particular, the journal roll, which is an electronic record  of all the transactions  that 
day. We will also ask for evidence that the ATM balanced that day or in that accounting  
period. If cash wasnt dispensed, then it would show as a surplus. In addition, we ask for 
data from the purge  box (where  unused notes are returned);  details of whether there  were  
any reported errors with the ATM or other  claims  raised that day, and any other relevant 
information to demonstrate whether there was a technical fault or any other deficiency. This 
includes the consumers  description of environment  and people at the ATM.
In this case, the journal roll shows that the cash was dispensed. TSB said the ATM balanced 
although the ATM owner didnt provide the a copy of the figures.  And it said no other 
complaints were reported. Ive considered this together  with evidence that other customers  
were using the cash machine without any problems. And Mrs G used the same machine 
successfully a third time. She didnt try another cash machine, even though she said the first 
two transactions  were  unsuccessful.
Ref: DRN29426642Im afraid, based on the available evidence, I think its more  likely that the cash was 
dispensed.
Im sorry  this isnt the outcome Mrs G was expecting but I have to base my decision on all 
the evidence.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29426643Complaint
Mrs G has complained that TSB Bank Plc wont refund her for a failed  ATM cash  withdrawal.
Background
Mrs G was on holiday  in Turkey in April 2019.
She said she wanted to make a purchase in a shop, which didnt accept  card payments. So she went 
to a nearby ATM to withdraw cash. She tried to withdraw  cash  using her TSB debit  card. A message 
flashed across the screen, in English, saying This  transaction cannot  be completed! She tried again  
with a debit card from another bank but the same thing happened again. No cash was dispensed.
A queue was forming behind her so she walked away from the ATM to think about what she should 
do. She decided to try again with her credit card. She paused  to remember  the PIN and then re-joined 
the ATM  queue. Her third attempt to withdraw cash was successful.
When she returned to the UK, she noticed that the cash in the first two attempted
transactions had left her accounts.  She contacted both banks and they credited her accounts  while  
they investigated  her complaint. TSB subsequently re-debited her account. The other bank decided to 
leave the account  as it was, as a goodwill  gesture.
TSB said it re-debited her account after receiving  evidence from the ATM provider that the cash had 
been dispensed. It said the evidence showed  thered been no errors  and even showed the 
denominations.
Mrs G wasnt  happy with TSBs  decision  to re-debit  her account, so she brought her complaint to this 
service.
An investigator looked  into her complaint and decided to uphold it. He said:
Mrs G had been consistent and credible throughout.  She reported  the events as soon as she 
became aware of the debits on her account.
The statements for the other bank account and the credit  card were consistent  with her story.
It was completely plausible that a consumer would  try further cards when  attempting to 
withdraw cash if one card had failed.
He also noted that TSBs documentary evidence  was not complete. He said it hadnt provided proof 
that the ATM  balanced at the end of that day. And there was no evidence  of whether any notes  
remained in the purge  bin.
The investigator recommended  that TSB refund Mrs G.
TSB disagreed with our investigators view and so this case  has come to me for a final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im afraid Ive reached a different  conclusion to that 
reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the electronic report from the ATM provider.  I think  it is compelling  evidence. Much of 
the report  is in another language but I can see her card number and there is a record that her PIN 
was entered. There is a section in English.  It records there were no errors and that the cash was 
dispensed. It also shows  the denominations.
Ref: DRN29426644I note that TSB has not provided evidence  that the ATM balanced, although  it said the ATM owner 
confirmed it had balanced.  It says we should take account of the fact that an ATM owner  has to sign 
up to a code of practice. It is simply not worth their while to lie about  small  amounts (in this case 
£280). And if the ATM  didnt  balance, the owner  would  just accept  the claim  and pay the customer. 
Here, the ATM owner declined both claims,  lending  weight to the argument that both transactions 
were successful.
TSB also explained  that notes are routinely found  in the purge bin and the ATM still balances. This is 
because if the ATM knows notes havent been dispensed (usually because  of a damaged note) it 
expects the notes  to be in the purge bin and includes them  in the cash  balance.  So the purge bin 
record carries little weight.
TSB pointed  out that Mrs G confirmed she completed a successful withdrawal with a different card so 
this suggests the ATM was working correctly. It said if the machine had been tampered with then 
others in the queue would have experienced the same problem.
Ive noted that Mrs G told this service  that she didnt  notice anything unusual or suspicious at the 
ATM. It also seems  it was a busy  ATM as a queue was forming behind  her. So her description of 
circumstances at the time is consistent with the evidence  that the machine was working.
Ive carefully considered why Mrs G would  use a credit  card to withdraw cash,  given its more  
expensive. The fact she did supports her story.
She told us she was relying on cash during her holiday. Ive looked  at her bank statements. According 
to her TSB bank statement,  she started using  her card abroad from 4 April 2019,  mainly for cash  
withdrawals. By the time of the disputed transactions on 8 April 2019, her account was overdrawn. 
That was the last transaction she made abroad with her TSB card.
The balance  on the second account was low but not overdrawn. There were no transactions abroad,  
other than the disputed  cash  withdrawal. Her credit  card statement confirms  she made  a cash  
withdrawal for the same amount and at the same ATM as the disputed transactions. However, the 
statement says this was on 9 April and not the 8 April.  I accept this might reflect a difference  in time 
zones. However,  she continues  to use her credit card abroad  on 9 and 10 April 2019,  when it seems 
she returned  to the UK. This activity on her accounts tends to give the impression she was running 
low on funds in her current  accounts.
In summary, I think its more likely than not that the first two cash  withdrawals were successful.  
The electronic report from the ATM owner shows this to be the case. Im persuaded that theres  no 
benefit to the owner in defending  a small  claim. The evidence  also shows Mrs G relied on cash 
withdrawals to fund her holiday. She had exhausted  the balance in her current account and needed  to 
use her credit card to see her through to the end of her stay. This seems  a more likely reason for 
using her credit card.
For these  reasons, I wont be asking  TSB to refund the disputed cash withdrawal.
I am sorry  this will be disappointing  news for Mrs G but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
Ref: DRN2942664