K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way Santander  UK Plc has managed his mortgage  account.
background
Mr M took out a joint mortgage with his then partner in 2007. They have since separated and 
Mr M doesnt live at the property. He says hes agreed with his ex partner that she will pay 
the mortgage. Mr M says his ex partner hasnt agreed to sell the property.
Mr M says the mortgage account has been in arrears  for some years and there are now 
arrears of more than six months.  There were unpaid service charges which Santander paid 
and added to the mortgage  account without his consent. Mr M says Santander has set up 
multiple payment  plans  with his ex partner  which have failed. 
Mr M says the way Santander  has managed  the account has increased  the mortgage  debt 
and damaged his credit  record.  He says Santander should  take action to possess the 
property, in accordance  with its own guidelines.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
Santander cant interfere in a dispute between Mr M and his ex partner about whether 
the property should  be sold and who should  make payments. Mr M and his partner both 
remain liable for the debt.
Possession is a last resort. Its not unreasonable for Santander to agree payment 
arrangements. It had followed its policy. Santander doesnt have to set a limit on the 
number of arrangements it will agree to.
Arrears were paid off after Santander  obtained a possession  order  in 2014. Arrears on 
the account didnt exceed three  months  until recently. Santander had started legal 
action. However, Mr Ms ex partner might  be able to pay some of the arrears  or agree an 
arrangement which  would mean court  action  wouldnt continue. And the court might not 
grant an order for possession.
As Mr M is jointly  liable for the mortgage the conduct of the account   including  the 
arrears  would  be recorded  on his credit  file. 
Mr M hadnt  raised his complaint about Santander paying the service charges with 
Santander and given it an opportunity to respond. So we cant  look into that part of his 
complaint. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said his ex partner has failed to pay the service charge on a number 
of occasions.  Santander  paid this and increased the mortgage debt. And the failure of many 
payment plans has increased  the mortgage  debt due to additional interest  and charges. He 
says the mortgage terms allow Santander  to take action to possess the property. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
Ref: DRN22608402words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
I should make it clear that I will only consider those aspects of Mr Ms complaint that affect 
him directly. We dont have consent  from the joint account holder to look into the aspects of 
the complaint  that relate to her dealings with Santander.  Mr M didnt raise his complaint 
about Santander paying service charges with Santander before coming to us. However 
Santander said that we can look into Mr Ms concern that this increased the mortgage debt.
I sympathise with the circumstances Mr M describes. Hes liable for a debt secured on a 
property that he doesnt live in and cant sell without his ex partners agreement, which  isnt 
forthcoming. Mortgage payments havent been maintained. Mr M says he cant afford  to 
make mortgage payments  and believes his ex partner cant  either.  Any missed payments 
and arrears are reported to the credit  reference  agencies and recorded on Mr Ms credit file. 
I appreciate that Mr M can see no way to resolve  this other than for Santander to take 
possession and sell the property. 
However, possession  should be a last resort. Santander has to consider what  concessions  it 
can offer to help customers in financial  difficulty   which Mr M says is the case here.  
Santander was granted  a suspended possession order in late 2014. The arrears on the 
account were paid by mid 2015.  After  this, payments were sufficient to avoid arrears of more  
than three  months  until early 2018.  Arrears increased during 2018. 
Mr M says there were  multiple payment arrangements and this shows  that his ex partner 
cant afford to maintain  payments.  But payment arrangements are usually for a fixed period 
and theres no limit on the number of payment arrangements a lender  can offer a customer. 
Santander has to decide whether to agree a payment arrangement  based  on the information 
it has about a customers circumstances.  The payment arrangements  that Mr M is 
concerned about  were  made between Santander and a third party   Mr Ms ex partner. I 
cant investigate these  arrangements  without her consent. 
But there werent significant arrears on the account between mid 2015 to early  2018. This 
suggests any payment  arrangements  were largely  successful. In the circumstances, I cant  
reasonably find that Santander was unreasonable to agree the payment arrangements  or 
that it should instead have  taken action to possess  and sell the property. 
Its not wrong for a lender to pay service charges on behalf of a borrower if it needs to do so 
to protect  its security. Santander  provided  evidence  a court  order   that the debt was 
owed. Mr M hasnt said he intended to pay the service charges. I cant  ask for information 
about any discussion between Santander and Mr Ms ex partner about the payment of the 
service charges. Based on the available evidence, I cant reasonably find that it was unfair 
for Santander to pay the service charges.
Santander has to report accurate  and up to date information to the credit  rating  agencies.  
Mr M is jointly and severally liable for the mortgage  debt.  I appreciate  that having information 
about arrears and missed  payments recorded on his credit file can cause difficulties. But I 
havent seen evidence that the information  recorded  by Santander is incorrect. So I cant ask 
it to remove information  or to stop reporting  information about the mortgage account to the 
credit reference agencies.   
Ref: DRN22608403I do understand how frustrating this is for Mr M. I appreciate  that not being given information 
about Santanders discussions and agreements with his ex partner  has added to this. But I 
cant reasonably  require Santander to provide  this information to Mr M. 
Mr M wants Santander to put an end to the matter  by taking possession and selling the 
property. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think Santander has acted 
unreasonably by not doing so. Arrears  increased  during 2018 and Santander  has passed the 
matter to its legal  team.  But I cant reasonably  require Santander  to start or continue  with 
legal proceedings. Whether  it does so will depend  on whether Mr Ms ex partner can pay 
some or all of the arrears. And if the matter does go to court  then it will be for the court to 
decide whether  to grant an order for possession. 
Santander sent two letters to Mr M to the wrong address. It apologised and offered £300 
compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2260840