K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains on behalf of her and her husband about esure Insurance  Limiteds  (esure)  
delay in making a cash settlement following a claim on their home insurance policy
Reference to esure also includes its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs P had a flood at their home  in May 2018. So, they made a claim on their home 
insurance policy, which was provided by esure. 
Mr and Mrs P and their family moved  out of their home and stayed at other  family  members 
homes. esure agreed to pay them a temporary accommodation allowance. Mrs P was in 
regular contact with esure  about the claim and around October 2018, it told her that its 
contractors wouldnt be available until about  January, so they might want  to consider a cash 
settlement instead.
Over the following few weeks, esure amended the schedule of works and discussed with 
Mrs P what  should be included in it, so that the cash settlement could reflect this. esure 
agreed the schedule of works with Mr and Mrs P around the end of November. Around the 
same time, Mrs Ps mother in law moved into residential care.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy  with the amount of cash settlement that esure initially  
suggested (as it differed to a figure previously mentioned by esure), so they proposed a 
different figure as a means of speeding  things up. esure agreed to pay the amount Mr and 
Mrs P suggested and sent a settlement form for them  to complete in December. Mrs P 
asked esure  to amend the wording  of the form, so they werent prevented  from pursuing 
separate complaints if they felt that necessary. Mrs P chased esure about the form in 
January and esure paid the cash settlement towards  the end of that month-around three 
months after it was first discussed.  
 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy  with how long it took esure to settle their claim, so they 
complained. 
esure accepted that the claim took longer than expected to settle. And whilst it felt that some 
of the delays were  unavoidable, it said it hadnt  always progressed things quickly.  It offered 
Mr and Mrs P £400 compensation and said they could  contact  our service if they werent 
happy. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to us. They said that had they known it would take three  months to 
receive a cash settlement,  theyd have waited for esures contractors to complete  the work. 
Mr and Mrs P said theyd  suffered a financial loss, particularly in having to pay for residential 
care costs for Mrs Ps mother in law. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that there had been  avoidable delays.  
The investigator thought esures offer of £400  compensation  was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree with the investigators  view, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ref: DRN21873522Mr and Mrs P made a separate complaint to this service about the amount of temporary 
accommodation allowance that esure paid. Weve already given them  our view about esures 
handling of that issue and Mr and Mrs P accepted the settlement that was agreed between  
this service and esure. So, my decision will focus solely on whether esure delayed in making 
a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs P. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the detailed and 
helpful information that Mr and Mrs P sent me to consider. If I dont refer to everything,  its 
not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive focussed on what I believe to be the 
key issues in this case. 
Its clear from what Ive seen that Mr and Mrs Ps preferred option would have been  for esure  
to complete the restoration work on their house.  I say that in particular because  Mrs P was 
proactive in trying to agree  a start date for the work  with esure, even once the possibility of a 
cash settlement was mentioned. But, I can appreciate why, when  faced with a potential 
delay of at least  three  months before building work could start, Mr and Mrs P opted for a 
cash settlement instead. 
And I can appreciate  that being displaced  from their home must have been  very difficult for 
Mr and Mrs P and their family. So, I can also see why theyd opt for a cash  settlement if they 
thought that was likely to be a quicker option to settle their claim. 
On the face of it, around three months from esure offering to make a cash  settlement to it 
making the payment does seem  like a long time.  Mr and Mrs P say that had the cash  
settlement been  made sooner, they wouldnt have had to pay so much for residential  care.  
I appreciate their point  in the sense that had the cash  settlement been made sooner, 
builders might have been able to start the building work sooner and the whole family could 
potentially have returned home  earlier than it did.  
So, Ive looked  into what happened during the period  between  esure proposing  a cash 
settlement and making a payment. 
Regardless of whether  esure arranged for its contractors to do the building  work, or settled 
the claim in cash,  its not surprising that Mr and Mrs P would  want  to agree what  should be 
included in the schedule of works or associated cash settlement. So, until that was agreed, I 
dont really think esure could have  settled the claim. 
And its clear  to me that esure didnt always progress the schedule of works as quickly as it 
could have done, so that accounts for some of the three-month delay. But it doesnt account 
for all of it. I can also see that esure and Mrs P had several exchanges about the schedule of 
works to ensure  that it reflected all of the work  that esure would otherwise have been 
responsible for. Overall  that meant that the schedule wasnt agreed until around late 
November.  
But it seems  to me that reaching a fair outcome-and  one that both parties were happy  with 
was just as important as a timely  one.  And Im satisfied from what  Ive seen that esure  
wanted to give Mr and Mrs P full opportunity to comment before it finalised the payment. 
Im also satisfied that esure took on board their comments. That in itself shows that it wanted 
to reach  a fair outcome,  particularly as it agreed to pay the amount that Mr and Mrs P 
proposed as a cash settlement figure.
Ref: DRN21873523Its a pity though  that it took about a month from agreeing the settlement  figure  to making  the 
final payment to Mr and Mrs P. And whilst some of that time was owing to a holiday period 
and esure  considering amendments to the payment  mandate that Mr and Mrs P suggested, I 
can see that there were  also periods of delay  in which esure  doesnt  seem to have been 
particularly proactive. And that led to Mrs P having  to chase things up. 
Overall, there were  periods where esure  could have  done more to speed things up when  
making the cash settlement. And esure  recognises  that. But, it was also a complex claim that  
required careful consideration.  So on balance,  Im not persuaded that any financial loss 
Mr and Mrs P say theyve suffered was as a direct result of the delays that could be 
attributed to esure.   
esure offered to pay Mr and Mrs P £400 compensation in recognition  of the impact  that its 
delays had. Im satisfied that that payment reflects the inconvenience  that Mr and Mrs P 
suffered because esure didnt always progress the cash  settlement (and its associated 
actions) as quickly as it should have done.  
My final decision
I understand esure Insurance Limited has offered Mr and Mrs P £400 to compensate them  
for the inconvenience  suffered as a result of the delays that esure was responsible for. 
I conclude that this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is 
that esure Insurance Limited  pay Mr and Mrs P £400 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN2187352