K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1990. Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Mr and Mrs D have said they were  told they had to have the PPI when taking out their 
mortgage. But Bank of Scotlands records show Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage  started  in 1979, 
but the PPI policy  didnt  start until 1990. So Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage had already been 
running for more than ten years  when the PPI was sold.  And so I dont think  Mr and Mrs D 
can reasonably  have thought they needed to take the PPI in order to get their mortgage.
There isnt very much  other information  available about the sale.  Mr and Mrs D havent  given 
us much detail about what was said and Bank  of Scotland  hasnt been able to send us any 
evidence from the sale. Due to the amount of time that has passed since the sale though, I 
dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence here for me to say that Bank of Scotland made Mr and Mrs D think 
they had to have the PPI. So I think its likely that Bank of Scotland made it clear to Mr and 
Mrs D that they had a choice about  the PPI, and that Mr and Mrs D chose to take it.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check  that it was right 
for them. And, based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was.
Mr and Mrs D have said that the policy covered both of them.  But the PPI insurance 
certificate theyve sent us and Bank  of Scotlands records of the policy show  it was only Mr D 
who was covered.
Mr D doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the likely exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover.  The policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs D have told us Mr D 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer. And it wouldve meant Mr and Mrs D 
didnt need to rely on their savings to make  their mortgage repayments if Mr D wasnt  
earning.
Mr and Mrs D have said that also they had a life insurance policy, death in service benefits 
and good redundancy  benefits from their employers. But the PPI covered different risks to 
these benefits.  So I still think it was right for Mr and Mrs D.
As well as checking it was right for them, Bank of Scotland had to give Mr and Mrs D clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Mr and Mrs Ds 
Ref: DRN23199062property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing.
And, for the same reasons I think it was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have 
been useful for Mr and Mrs D if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs D off taking it out.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2319906