K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a holiday.
background
The secondary card holder for the account,  Mr C, used his credit  card to pay for a hotel 
overseas. He says he did so under  duress and the receipts are clearly marked  so. Mr C said 
the hotel was not as described  and identified a number of faults including:
the hygiene  level in the restaurant was non-existent;
the hotel room was in a shocking  condition;
the bathroom toilet didn't work;
there was no hot water running;
the balcony door didn't shut which raised security issues;  and,
some  goods were stolen.
He says he tried to find another hotel as soon as he could but was forced by the hotel staff to 
pay for the bill. Mr H asked that Nationwide raise a chargeback, but it decided  not to do so 
as Mr C had stayed on at the hotel and had made use of its services.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who said the card issuer didn't 
have to raise a chargeback, but this service regarded it is good  practice  to do so when there 
is a fair chance of success. He concluded Nationwide should have raised  a chargeback  
under Reason code  53 of the Visa Rules.
Reason Code  53 covers goods  'not as described or defective merchandise'. To support this, 
condition 1 states that 'the merchandise or services  did not match what was described by 
the transaction receipt or other  documentation presented at the time of purchase.
The investigator said Mr C didnt get the level of service  one would expect from a four star 
hotel. She didnt believe the information  provided on the hotel website matched up with Mr 
C's experience and referenced some photographs he had provided. She concluded there 
had been misrepresentation.
She said that under the chargeback rules  the consumer must  have  made reasonable and 
legitimate attempts to resolve the dispute or return the merchandise.  It was clear  Mr C made 
a number of attempts to resolve  the matters  with the hotel, but to no avail.  He had told us 
that he sought an alternative hotel as soon as he could. She also noted  all the invoices  
showed that he had paid the bill under  duress. 
She concluded that a chargeback claim should  have been  raised  and she thought  that in 
recognition that Mr C had had some use of the hotel Nationwide should refund him 50% of 
the bill which  amounted to £253.80.
Mr H agreed, but said he did so in the expectation  of Nationwide settling without delay. 
Nationwide didnt agree  and said the photographs only covered  part of Mr Hs claim and they 
showed evidence  of attempted repairs. It also said that it would expect dialogue  between  the 
consumer and the hotel and if no agreement  was reached for the consumer to vacate the 
hotel. 
Ref: DRN26083322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a process that is provided  by the Card Scheme- in this case Visa. It allows  
customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods  or 
services they've paid for. There's no automatic  right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback  a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund. Visa checks the nature of the problem against the 
possible chargeback  reasons  to see whether the claim  will be successful. If the bank feels  
that a claim won't  be successful, they don't have to raise  a chargeback.
Nationwide didnt think a claim would be successful so didnt raise a chargeback. I am not 
sure what  evidence it had at that point, but I am bemused that it reached that conclusion. I 
am satisfied  from the evidence that Mr C only paid the bill, after having  tried to get the 
problems resolved. This is set out in the email  exchanges  with the hotel and from the copies 
of the invoices which record that he paid under  duress.
I am not sure what else he was supposed to have  done?  It isnt a straightforward  matter to 
find a replacement hotel  in another country  as Nationwide  seem to suggest. I am satisfied 
that Mr C sought to resolve  the problems and when that failed he sought  to find alternative  
accommodation. In the interim he was pressurised to pay his bill which he had disputed. 
I am satisfied the photographs show that the room was in a poor state and while  these may 
not cover  all the aspects  of his dispute with the hotel they are enough to persuade me that a 
chargeback had a reasonable chance of success if it had been properly pursued.  Therefore  I 
uphold his complaint and agree with the compensation proposed by the investigator..  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr H £253.80. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr H to accept  or reject  my decision before  1 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2608332