K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the time it took Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to set up new 
accounts and with the amount of information they asked  for. Mr P has complained on their 
behalf so Ill refer to him throughout.
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc is trading as Post Office Financial Services and Mr P dealt  with 
Post Office  Money. However  as Bank  of Ireland  (UK) Plc is responsible  for the accounts  Ill 
refer to them as BOI throughout my decision. 
background
In August  2018,  Mr P applied to open  two new savings accounts  with BOI. He wanted  to 
transfer the funds  that he currently held in two separate BOI accounts  to secure a better 
interest rate.
Before BOI could open the accounts they needed  to see certain  documents from Mr P so 
they could verify the origin of the money being  transferred.  Mr P provided a number of 
documents, however BOI still needed  more information on Mr Ps business  and where  the 
money he wanted to transfer had come from. A few months later, Mr P re-applied online, and 
was able to open another  account without the need  to send anything at all. 
Mr P feels  BOI delayed the account opening  process so they wouldnt  need to pay the higher 
rate of interest on the original account that was opened. Hes also unhappy  as BOI told him it 
would be free to send  certified documents, when in fact he was charged each time. Mr P 
feels it was unnecessary for BOI to ask for so much information, and he cant understand 
how he was able to open the account online later on, without any checks being done. He 
would like the interest to be back dated to when he first applied for the original account. 
BOI explained that they were legally  required to carry out specific  due diligence checks when 
Mr P asked for the new accounts  to be opened, and that they could only open the accounts 
once their obligations had been fulfilled. This was for the security of both BOI and Mr P as a 
large amount of money  was being  transferred. When Mr P opened the account  online, they 
already would have had the information hed supplied already, and depending on what  
information is given  during the online application process, the verification information  asked 
for can be different.  
In terms of the interest, BOI werent willing to back date it as no contract had been entered 
until the accounts were  set up, and Mr Ps money  was still earning interest in the previous 
accounts. They werent willing to pay the difference in interest as they said the delay  had 
been caused by Mr P not wanting  to supply the documentation they were asking for. 
But BOI did acknowledge that Mr P had to pay for certified documents,  and agreed to refund 
£31.50 as he was charged £10.50  each for three sets of documents.  Mr P said he incurred 
costs of over £80. BOI said theyd refund these costs if Mr P could provide  receipts,  but he 
hasnt provided  these to date. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that it wasnt unreasonable for BOI to ask Mr P for the 
verification information.  She explained they were required to carry out the checks and she 
couldnt see anything  to suggest they had done  it to deliberately delay the account  opening.
Ref: DRN21550732She explained that if Mr P could provide receipts  then BOI would look to refund the £80, and 
that the reason why Mr P was able to open  the accounts later on without any checks was 
because BOI already  had the information  they required. Our investigator also agreed  it 
wouldnt be fair for BOI to back-date any interest, as they money had been earning interest 
elsewhere until it was transferred.  
Mr P didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I believe BOI have acted correctly  and fairly  in this case. Ill explain why. 
Whenever a new account is opened, a bank has to carry out certain due diligence  checks  to 
verify the identity of the customer.  Its sometimes also necessary to carry out further checks 
in order to establish the source of a customers money and income. 
The FAQ section of the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account says:
In certain  circumstances,  we may ask you to provide documentation to evidence  your 
identity, address or financial status. 
To evidence  your identity  we will normally ask you to provide us with one of the following;
- Current  valid full passport
- Current  full UK/EU Photocard Driving Licence/old style paper licence copy
To evidence  your address, we will normally ask you to provide us with one of the following;
- Utility  bill - e.g. gas, electricity, water, satellite television, telephone (not mobile),  broadband 
(not dongle contracts) (dated within the last 6 months)  
- Bank/Building Society/mortgage/credit union/Credit Card statement  (dated  within  the last 6 
months or dated  within the last 13 months if annually issued mortgage  statement)
- Local authority  correspondance (dated within the last 13 months e.g. Rates/Council Tax) 
If we need you to evidence your financial  status, we will provide you specific  information  on 
the documentation which is acceptable.  
Identity and address  information will need to be certified. This service is provided free of 
charge at certain Post Office branches. Full information on how to do this will be provided to 
you.
Please note if we do not receive  suitable  documentation within  28 days of your application, it 
will be cancelled  and you will need to apply again.
Given this, I dont find it was unreasonable for BOI to request specific  documents from Mr P. 
I understand the money was already in an account with BOI, but that didnt tell them where it 
had originated from, so they needed  to check this for risk purposes.  
I understand Mr P was able to open  an account  online  himself  after a few months had 
passed without  any documents being  requested. But BOI would already have had the 
Ref: DRN21550733information Mr P provided previously, meaning  they were able to open the new account  
more quickly. In addition,  Mr P gave different information about his occupation meaning the 
information BOI would  have needed would have been different. 
In terms of whats been offered, I feel the amount of £31.50 is fair. BOI has only seen 
evidence of three certified submissions and so has refunded  the full cost of these. In order  to 
provide any further  refund, Mr P will need  to send BOI proof  of the costs  hes incurred. And I 
dont agree BOI should pay anything towards the difference  in interest  as I dont feel they 
were wrong in asking  Mr P to provide the information. 
So overall, Im satisfied BOI have acted correctly and in line with their terms and conditions. 
Because of this I wont be asking them to pay anything further to Mr P. If Mr P wants  to 
provide BOI with receipts showing  his losses, he should send them  to BOI directly. BOI will 
then decide if they wish to cover  these costs. If not, Mr P will need  to raise a new complaint 
about this matter only. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2155073