K820x#14complaint
Mr T has a savings  account with Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS).  Hes unhappy that YBS 
made his account  dormant, which  restricted  his access to his money. Hes also unhappy that 
he was given incorrect information about the process to remove the dormant marker.
background
Mr T opened an account in 1999  with an online bank. When the online bank closed, his 
account was transferred  to YBS. In July 2017,  because thered been no activity on the 
account for a number  of years, YBS made  the account dormant. Mr T found out about this 
when he tried to access his account online  in March 2018.
When Mr T contacted YBS in April 2018 they told him that he needed  to provide certified ID 
documents before the account could be reactivated. But it wasnt  until September  2018  that 
YBS received what they needed.  They then reactivated  Mr Ts account and applied  
backdated interest to cover the period while the account was dormant.
Mr T has complained that YBS made no attempt to contact him before the account became  
dormant. He has also complained that the information he was given  in April 2018 about the 
ID requirements was incomplete. YBS have acknowledged that they gave Mr T incomplete  
information, and have offered him £90 to compensate him for the inconvenience  caused. 
Our investigator found that YBS had acted  reasonably. She felt theyd followed their process  
for marking the account dormant, a process  that was in place to protect Mr Ts money  from 
being accessed fraudulently. While  Mr T had been given incomplete information, YBS had 
corrected this error within four days.  Our investigator  felt that YBSs  offer of £90 was 
reasonable in the circumstances, and didnt think they should increase this.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator.  He felt that logging into his account  at least once a year 
showed that his account was still active, and he thinks  YBS took the opportunity  to take his 
money and use it to generate income for them. He says that the incomplete information YBS 
provided him caused rework  and delays on my end.  Because  of this, he doesnt feel that 
£90 is sufficient compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr T was actively  using  his account until May 2010. From this date until the 
account was made  dormant, the only transactions were interest being added  to the balance. 
YBS have explained  that, when an account  has not been used for a number  of years,  it is 
made dormant as part of their security procedures. This is what  happened to Mr Ts account.
YBS have also explained that they dont write  to the address  they have on file to tell the 
customer their account has been made dormant, in case the customer had moved address. 
This is done  to safeguard the customer and Ive seen that Mr T no longer  lived at the 
address YBS had on file for him.
Ref: DRN20887652It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service to decide what policies and procedures  
financial business should have in place. This is a decision YBS can make  in line with its 
regulator  The Financial Conduct  Authority.  I can see that YBS followed  its procedures 
when it marked Mr Ts account as dormant. For this reason I wont  comment further on 
YBSs procedure about how and when they treat an account as dormant. 
Its not disputed  that, on 19 April 2018,  YBS gave  Mr T incomplete information  about the 
requirements to reactivate  his account.  On 23 April Mr T advised YBS that this was 
incomplete and YBS provided the missing information. I agree that this shouldnt  have 
happened, and YBS shouldve sent all of the information first time.  YBS have offered Mr T 
£90 for the inconvenience  this caused. Because the impact on Mr T was limited to a few 
days, I think this offer is reasonable.
Mr T sent documentation to YBS in May and August 2018 to reactivate his account. YBS 
couldnt accept  these because they hadnt  been  certified correctly.  I accept that Mr T was 
frustrated by this, but YBS had told him what they needed  in April. I cant say YBS did 
anything wrong  because the documents  werent  certified correctly  so I wont be asking them  
to increase their compensation. I therefore leave it to Mr T to decide whether he wants to 
accept YBSs offer of compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Yorkshire Building 
Society and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2088765