K820x#14complaint
Ms C, represented by Mr O, complains about  the sale of a term assurance policy  by an 
appointed representative of Sesame  Limited. Ms C has said that she didnt understand what  
the policy was, or why she needed  it.
background
Ms C was advised to take out the policy in 2007 at the same  time as starting a new 
mortgage. It was a level-term life and critical illness policy providing cover of around £88,000 
over a 23 year term. At the time she was working and had two dependent  children. 
She initially complained  about the sale to the policy provider but was eventually directed  to 
Sesame, as the business responsible for the advice.  Sesame upheld the complaint in part. It 
felt the recommendation had been broadly  suitable  for Ms C given  her circumstances at the 
time. But it noted that the policy had a reviewable  element, which  it didnt think  was 
appropriate for mortgage cover, as the premiums  wouldnt have been guaranteed.  
Sesame offered Ms C compensation  based on a comparison with the cost of a non-
reviewable policy. This came to just over £28, including  interest,  to which  it added  £100 to 
acknowledge the trouble  and inconvenience caused. 
Ms C didnt accept this and referred  the matter  to this service.  Our investigator reached 
broadly the same conclusion as Sesame. He acknowledged  that there was little information 
available concerning the mortgage, so it wasnt possible to tell whether the cover had been a 
condition of the lending. But he felt Ms C wouldve had a need  for some sort of protection 
given her circumstances and there was no suggestion that the terms of the policy  didnt at 
least broadly match  those of the mortgage  in terms of amount and length of cover.  
The investigator acknowledged that Ms C wouldve had employment benefits, but explained 
that these werent  usually  taken into account when assessing mortgage cover  needs, as 
they werent guaranteed  to last for the full term of the mortgage.
In respect of Ms Cs understanding  of the policy, the investigator acknowledged  that there 
was little evidence  available  relating to how the information had been  presented  to Ms C. But 
he did feel the documentation provided to her summarising the policys features was clear. 
And in any event, he felt that even if Ms C had been given a better understanding she would 
more likely than not still have proceeded with the policy as the recommendation was 
essentially a suitable  one. 
As Mr O, on Ms Cs behalf,  didnt agree, the matters been  referred  to me to review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Although theres  limited  documentation available relating to the sale of the policy and the 
related mortgage,  we do know what  type of cover  the policy provided and we also know  
something of Ms Cs circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN23454822Whether or not taking out cover was a condition  of the mortgage, this would nevertheless 
appear to have been a suitable  recommendation for someone in Ms Cs situation  working  
to pay a mortgage and with dependent children. Its standard practice to suggest this type of 
cover when a large new liability  like a mortgage is being taken on, and generally seen as 
being a sensible  to put this type of cover in place. 
I note the point about employment cover, but as the investigator noted, that type of cover is 
not guaranteed for the potentially lengthy  term of the mortgage, during which much can 
change in someones personal  circumstances. For this reason,  its quite  usual for 
employment benefits to not be taken into consideration when  advising on mortgage cover.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that the policy didnt at least  broadly match  the terms of the 
borrowing. And while I note that Mr O has said that the mortgage was actually paid off some 
years ago, the policy wouldve continued  to provide  benefit for Ms C. And ultimately  only she 
wouldve been in a position  to stop the policy.  
In respect of Ms Cs understanding  of what the policy was and its purpose,  I cant  be certain  
how it was presented to her or what was said during the course  of the sale. But I think  the 
policy documentation  and schedule produced  following the advice  was reasonably  clear  and 
I note that it did provide  contact details for the policy provider as well as the adviser, in the 
event that Ms C was unsure about anything.  
So, in summary,  Im of the view that the recommendation was suitable for Ms C. I note 
Sesames offer to compensate her in respect of the reviewable element of the policy (which I 
understand to be solely  the critical illness part  it wasnt uncommon at the time for critical 
illness cover  to be reviewable) and think this is a fair and reasonable response to that issue.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2345482