K821x#15Complaint
Mrs D is complaining about Sesame Limited (Sesame) because  she says she received 
unsuitable advice  from one of its representatives.  She says the risks of the recommended  
investment werent  explained and were greater  than she was willing to accept. 
Background 
Mrs D had dealt with her adviser, Mr B, for a number of years. In 2007,  she says she was 
advised to switch benefits she held in a personal  pension with Scottish Life to a SIPP with 
Skandia (now AJ Bell) to fund an unregulated  investment with Stirling Mortimer.
On 9 July 2007,  £37,315  was switched from Mrs Ds Scottish Life pension  to her newly 
established SIPP. On 18 July 2007, £35,700  of that money was used to fund an unregulated  
investment in Stirling Mortimer Global Property  Fund  (No.3  Spain Fund).  I understand the 
fund has since gone into liquidation and AJ Bell says its been  removed  from the SIPP, 
which currently has a nil balance. It appears  that Mrs D has lost her money.
Mrs D says she was advised on the pension switch  and investment by Mr B of Ideal 
Financial Services (Ideal FS). Because Ideal FS was an appointed representative (AR) of 
Sesame, she thinks Sesame is responsible for her losses.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint is one we 
can consider and should be upheld.  An extract  is attached  and forms part of this decision.
Mrs D confirmed she accepted my provisional  decision. Sesame didnt accept it and said:
Prior to sending the Final Decision we would  like to make one further representation 
for the Ombudsman's consideration. In respect  of the Ombudsman's  comments  
around the business not being transacted on an execution only basis,  we do 
recognise that [Mrs D] has said she has no recollection of the disclaimer  however 
feel that the Ombudsman has given  unfair  weight to her recollections. The point of 
sale documentation clearly contains  her signature on the disclaimer and we believe 
that this should not just simply be brushed off as being part of a bundle  of documents 
that the customer was signing  at the time.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
I note Sesames comments  about  the execution-only letter, but I think its important to 
recognise that I havent based my conclusion  that this wasnt  an execution-only sale based  
solely on her recollections and I havent brushed off the issue in the way thats been 
suggested. I recognise the letter  appears  to have been signed, but my provisional decision 
set out in detail a number  of reasons why I felt it wasnt  likely to be an accurate reflection on 
how the sale was conducted. In particular,  I referred to the advisers own account of events 
and this was presumably what also prompted Sesame to conclude  advice was given when it 
initially responded to the complaint on 18 September 2017.
Ref: DRN25519972My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mrs D accepts my decision, Sesame Limited must  pay her compensation calculated  using  
the method set out in my provisional  decision.  It should provide Mrs D with details of its 
calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN25519973Extract from provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
Throughout this provisional decision, Ive referred to the rules I must  follow in assessing all aspects of 
this complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published  as part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook.
In reaching my conclusions, Ive relied  on the following key pieces  of evidence:
Sesames compliance manual dated October 2005.
Sesames Scope  of Permissions document dated January  2007.
A fact find dated  4 May 2007. This records  the adviser as Mr B and hasnt been signed  by 
Mrs D.
An undated letter from Mr B to Mrs D that says:
Following our meeting  on 09/05/2007 I am writing to confirm the basis of the 
transaction to effect  an investment into The Stirling  Mortimer Spain No.3 Fund via a 
Skandia SIPP.
Although I may have provided you with a Key Features document and brochures. I 
confirm that you did not seek any advice  from me, nor did I give any advice  in respect 
of this transaction. It was your express wish to effect  a transfer of your existing  
personal pension funds with Scottish Life and Friends Provident into this property  
fund as you feel it gives  greater growth potential  over the long term than your current 
funds prospects.
I have made  no attempt  to determine whether or not this contract is suitable  for you, 
nor whether it is affordable
Mrs Ds Stirling Mortimer application dated 26 May 2007. This records her adviser as Mr B of 
Ideal FS.
An undated email from Skandia to Mr B, which says:
Thank you for submitting an application for a Skandia SIPP on behalf of your above 
client.
The account  has been established as outlined in the attached  letter sent today.
We do however,  require  the clients  spouses  date of birth. With regards to the clients 
wish to invest  in a Majestic  Village Number  3 Fund. I have attached an Illiquid  
Investment Declaration,  which will need  to be signed  by either you or the client and 
returned to us at your earliest convenience.
We are delighted that you have chosen to recommend the Skandia SIPP and assure 
both you and your client of our closest attention at all times.
A document entitled Collective  Investment  Schemes - Declaration for non-UK  regulated 
and/or illiquid investments. This appears to have been issued  by the SIPP provider, 
confirming it didnt advise Mrs D and wasnt responsible for any issues arising from the 
investment. It hasnt been signed by Mrs D, but was signed  by Mr B of Ideal FS on 21 June 
2007.
Ref: DRN25519974An email from Mr B to Skandia dated 6 July 2007, which says:
A Stirling Mortimer SIPP being set up in the name [Mrs D] needs to be
amended.
I believe the amount specified in the Stirling Mortimer application was £32500. This is 
an error and should state £35700.
Apparently Scottish Life have sent you this money yesterday (in total £37315  for this 
client).
Could you confirm that this is the case and all is acknowledged.
Skandias reply to Mr B on 6 July 2007, which  says:
I can confirm that I am dealing with the investment into Majestic Village for [Mrs D].
I will post the Majestic Village application form today, and would  be grateful if you 
could get the client to amend  the amount on the form, and sign next to it, so we know 
that they have changed  the amendment.
We have  not as yet received  any money from Scottish Life for [Mrs D], but
upon receipt of this money, we will notify you.
An email from Skandia to Mr B, which  AJ Bell says was dated  9 July 2007,  that says:
I am pleased  to confirm  that we have today received a transfer value of £37,315.34 
from Scottish Life for our mutual client [Mrs D].
These funds,  less our fees will nominally be credited to the clients SIPP deposit 
account within  two working days. It is your responsibility  to ensure  that:
 Any outstanding investment instructions are completed
 There is sufficient  cash retained  to pay ongoing fees and any adviser remuneration 
due to be paid from the SIPP.
We have  issued a Cancellation Notice relating to this transfer directly  to the client,  as 
we are obliged to do so under FSA regulation. A copy of this letter and Cancellation 
Notice are attached.
An undated email from Skandia to Mr B that says:
Following on from my previous email, please  find attached the confirmation of [Mrs 
Ds] Stirling Mortimer investment.
I can also confirm  that I have taken a copy of all of your clients  Investment 
confirmations and have put them in todays post for you.
If you have  any further queries, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Mr Bs recollection of events provided for Sesame, dated 16 April 2017.
An email from AJ Bell to our investigator dated 17 July 2018,  which says:
Customers must maintain an ongoing business  relationship with an FCA-authorised  
financial adviser as the product does not accept business from customers who have 
not appointed a financial  adviser.
Ref: DRN25519975Mrs Ds most recent submissions in answer  to a series of questions I posed that were 
received in February 2021.
Ive asked the investigator to send Sesame a copy of Mrs Ds February  2021 submissions as Im 
aware it hasnt seen  these before. If either party hasnt seen any of the other information  Ive referred  
to, they can speak to the investigator about obtaining a copy  before responding to this provisional 
decision.
Jurisdiction
When we receive a complaint about the acts or omissions  of an AR, the usual jurisdiction tests apply:
Did the actions being  complained about take place when the representative  was an AR of 
the principal?
Do we have territorial jurisdiction?
Is the complainant  eligible?
Was the complaint  made in time?
In this case, Im satisfied  these tests are met. Mrs D is an eligible  complainant, we have territorial 
jurisdiction and Ideal FS was an AR of Sesame at the time of the acts complained about. Ive also 
reviewed the issue of whether Mrs D complained within the time limits set out in the DISP rules  and 
Im satisfied she did for the reasons set out by my colleague in his previous decision covering this 
issue.
So, the key issue I must address in deciding whether  we can consider the merits  of this complaint  is 
whether Sesame can be held responsible for the alleged  actions of its AR, Mr B of Ideal FS. We dont 
have jurisdiction to consider  all complaints about ARs. Our jurisdiction depends on the facts  of the 
case and I must make findings on the facts that are material to jurisdiction.
Under DISP 2.3.1, we can only consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction  if it relates to:
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more  of the listed activities, which  includes 
regulated activities;  or
any ancillary activities carried on by a firm in connection with those  activities.
Further, DISP 2.3.3  says:
Complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which  the firm 
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firm... has accepted  responsibility).
So, the issue  of whether Sesame is responsible for the alleged actions of its AR involves a three 
stage test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary to regulated  activities;  
and 
step 3 - consider whether the principal  firm was responsible for those activities by reason  of 
section 39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA),  agency or vicarious 
liability.  
Ref: DRN25519976step 1  identify the specific acts being complained  about.
Mrs Ds complaint is essentially that Mr B gave her unsuitable advice to switch her pension benefits to 
a SIPP to fund an unregulated investment  that resulted in her losing money.
step 2 - consider whether  those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary to regulated  activities 
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme, which includes 
SIPPs, are specified as investments (article 82). So are the units  in a collective investment scheme 
(CIS), which includes UCIS (article 81). Advising on the merits of buying or selling these investments 
is a specified activity  (article 53). So is arranging deals in investments (article 25) and agreeing  to 
advise on investments  or arrange deals in investments  (article  64).
 
The Stirling Mortimer  investment appears to have many of the qualities  of a UCIS and Sesame 
appears to accept thats what it was. And Mrs Ds Scottish Life pension was a personal  pension 
covered by article 82. So Im currently satisfied  that by advising Mrs D on switching her pension  
and/or making her investment, and/or helping  her arrange these, Mr B would  have been carrying out 
regulated activities.
Im also conscious the investment took place within the Skandia SIPP. Rights under a personal  
pension constitute a specified investment in the same way that shares  or a CIS is a specified 
investment. So advising  on and/or arranging  for Mrs D to make the investment within her SIPP 
involved giving advice on and/or making  arrangements  for the rights under  a pension.  So in this 
case, activities involving UCIS didnt only involve  the UCIS. They were also activities involving  the 
rights in the SIPP.
arranging investments
I believe the evidence from the time is clear that Mr B was involved  in the regulated activity  of 
arranging Mrs Ds pension switch and investment and Sesame doesnt appear to be disputing this.
In terms of the SIPP, I note AJ Bell says Skandia didnt accept business  from customers without an 
adviser, which indicates  an adviser  must have been involved in arranging it. And from the evidence  
provided, I think its clear  that adviser  was Mr B. In particular, I note the email correspondence with 
Skandia shows he submitted  the application and signed the Collective Investment  Schemes 
declaration (the SIPP  declaration) on Mrs Ds behalf. 
Looking at the Stirling Mortimer  investment, it also seems clear Mr B was also involved  in arranging 
this. The application  recorded him as the adviser  and I think his email correspondence  with Skandia 
shows he was involved in making the necessary arrangements. His undated letter to Mrs D following  
their meeting (the execution-only letter) also appears to show that he provided  her with product 
literature and he confirmed  this in his recent statement to Sesame.
advising on investments
The issue that Sesame  now seems to be disputing  is whether Mr B also advised Mrs D on her 
pension switch and investment. In considering this point, Im mindful that there were only two ways  in 
which this business  could have legitimately been arranged. Either, it was done on a non-advised or 
execution-only basis, whereby Mr B gave no advice on the merits  of what  was being  proposed and 
simply followed Mrs Ds instructions. Or, he provided  her with advice.
The regulated activity  of advising on investments is defined in article 53 of the RAO  as follows:
Advising a person  is a specified kind of activity if the advice is 
Ref: DRN25519977a)given to the person in his capacity  as an investor or potential investor,  or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
b)advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent) -
(i)buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which  is a 
security or a contractually based investment, or
(ii)exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
In terms of the first part of the definition, Im satisfied  Mrs D was an investor  or potential investor. So 
Ive considered carefully whether Mr B also gave advice on the merits of her pension switch and 
investment as described in the second part of the definition. But before going  further, I think its 
relevant to note this definition doesnt refer to suitability reports and other sales documentation, so the 
fact these may not be available and may not have been completed at the time, doesnt prove  no 
advice was given  contrary to what Sesame appears to believe.
The execution-only  letter, which, although undated,  appears to be from the time of sale,  suggests Mr 
B simply  followed Mrs Ds instructions and offered no opinion on the merits  of what was being 
discussed. In other words, that this was an execution-only sale.  
Mrs Ds recollection  of events is very different to that recorded  in the execution-only  letter. She says 
Mr B:
. . . approached me with this opportunity saying that he had invested his own money  in the 
scheme already and was advising his clients to do the same. Being fairly  ignorant about  
financial investment and having had no reason in the past to doubt  [Mr Bs] judgement on 
these matters, I took his recommendation. 
And that:
I had never  heard of SIPP before.
On balance, I find Mrs Ds explanation of how the pension switch  and investment came about to be 
more plausible. 
I note Mrs D appears to have signed the execution-only letter, although  she says she doesnt recall it 
and doesnt have a copy on her file. But either way, I dont think  the fact it contains her signature 
necessarily demonstrates the letter is a true reflection  of how the sale took place. Firstly, Im 
conscious it was presumably one of a number of documents  she was asked to sign and I dont think 
she would necessarily  have considered it to be important or understood its potential  significance.  Its 
also not clear  to me why Mr B would  have needed to complete  a fact find if he wasnt giving  advice on 
some level.
In addition, the Stirling  Mortimer investment was an esoteric,  unregulated product. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest Mrs D was a particularly  knowledgeable  or sophisticated investor and theres no 
suggestion shed used or considered unregulated  investments before.  So I dont think its likely  she 
came up with this idea herself and I believe its more likely to have been the case that Mr B introduced 
it to her. In his recollection of events provided  for Sesame, Mr B doesnt dispute that he first 
approached Mrs D about  the investment and he also confirmed the comment  in the execution-only 
letter that he provided  her with a Key Features document and brochures.
Mrs D says Mr B recommended the pension  switch and investment and that she trusted his advice 
because of their long-standing relationship.  The proposition put to her was that she switch her 
pension benefits  to a high-risk, unregulated investment where she wouldnt have protection from the 
Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things went wrong. On the basis that this doesnt 
appear to have been  something shed been considering  before  Mr B made her aware of it, and in view 
of Mr Bs comments to Sesame  that shed always been assessed as a balanced or moderate risk 
Ref: DRN25519978investor, it seems very unlikely to me that Mrs D would have decided  to do this without advice  on the 
merits from her trusted adviser. 
Initially, Sesame also seems to have reached the same conclusion and I note it said in its complaint 
response dated 18 September 2017:
We have  established that you were advised to invest in the Stirling Mortimer Global Property 
Fund on 1 May 2007.
I think  its also relevant  to note that Mr Bs own recollection of what took place, provided  in 2017 
recent statement  to Sesame, is inconsistent with any suggestion the sale was carried out on an 
execution-only basis. In addition to confirming he provided Mrs D with product brochures, Mr B said 
I believe [Mrs D] has forgotten  about  the advice process which took place when  she 
proceeded with Stirling Mortimer.
He also said:
It was pointed out that [the investment] did not match [Mrs Ds] risk profile as it was high risk 
and it would be inappropriate to recommend to her. As she felt her pension provision to be 
inadequate she wished  to proceed  regardless.
In response to the investigators assessment, Sesame put forward the argument that Mr B advised 
Mrs D against the investment, presumably partly based on his statement. If this is what  happened, its 
my view that would constitute advice on the merits of . . . buying, selling,  subscribing for or 
underwriting a particular investment which  is a security or a contractually based investment under 
article 53 of the RAO. 
So contrary to what the execution-only letter might suggest if read in isolation,  I think  all the other 
evidence indicates  this wasnt  an execution-only  sale as Mr B did comment  on the merits of what  was 
being proposed. And that it must therefore have been an advised sale and Mr B was also involved in 
the regulated  activity of advising on investments.
I think  the evidence indicates Mr B was representing Ideal FS (and acting  as an AR of Sesame)  when 
carrying out the regulated activities of advising on and arranging Mrs Ds pension switch and 
investment. In particular, he recorded on the investment application and SIPP declaration that he was 
representing Ideal FS. And Ive found no evidence or suggestion  he was connected to another 
regulated firm at the time or that he claimed  to be acting for anyone else.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr B of Ideal FS (acting as an AR of Sesame) carried out 
the regulated  activities of arranging  and advising on Mrs Ds pension  switch  and investment. These 
activities fall within our jurisdiction as set out at DISP 2.3.1.
step 3 - consider whether  the principal  firm was responsible for those activities by reason  of section 
39 of FSMA,  agency or vicarious liability.
It seems to be accepted Mrs D and Mr B had an established and long-standing relationship of client 
and financial adviser and as Ive already  explained, Im satisfied Mr B was acting for Ideal FS and in 
his capacity  as Sesames AR when  carrying  out the regulated activities Ive described. That means 
that if what he did was business for which Sesame  accepted  responsibility, the acts being complained  
about were  also its acts.
Ref: DRN25519979As Ive already identified, DISP 2.3.3  says:
complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility). 
So a principal  is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to the 
business it has accepted responsibility  for.
On the subject of ARs, section 39 of FSMA said:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which -
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies  with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility. (my emphasis)
So under section 39, the principal is required to accept  responsibility for that business,  which  is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description. However the recent case  of Anderson v 
Sense Network (2018) makes it clear the words part of in section 39 allow  a principal firm to accept  
responsibility for only part of the generic business of a prescribed description. In other words, 
Sesame was entitled to appoint Ideal FS as its AR and limit the scope of the regulated activities it 
could carry out and that it would be responsible  for.
Further clarification on this point was provided by the appeal judgement in the Anderson v Sense 
case, which  set out that only restrictions on what  generic business could  be conducted would  limit 
the principals  responsibility. In contrast,  restrictions on how that business is to be conducted dont 
limit a principals  responsibility under section 39. In other words,  a principal cant avoid responsibility 
for activities it authorised  an AR to carry out just because those activities werent carried out in the 
way it wanted them to be. 
In terms of this complaint  against Sesame,  the above means I can consider it if the acts being  
complained about include business for which it accepted responsibility under  section 39 of FSMA.
The relationship between Sesame and Ideal FS, including  the activities Ideal FS was permitted  to 
carry out and that Sesame accepted responsibility  for, should have been set out in a formal AR 
agreement. Unfortunately,  Sesame  hasnt  been able to provide a copy of this agreement  or a sample 
agreement from around the same time. But it has been able to provide a copy  of its compliance 
manual from the time Mrs D invested. The manual includes details of the activities Sesame permitted 
its ARS to carry out and its my understanding the ARs were expected to comply with its contents. 
Section 4.2 of the compliance manual, entitled What is Sesames Scope of Permission?, says:
Sesame is regulated by the FSA to carry out certain activities. This is referred  to as Part IV 
permission All regulated firms have to obtain a permission, but the scope of their particular  
Ref: DRN255199710permission may include one or several regulated  activities depending  on the business of the 
firm.
The regulated activities for which Sesame has approval are as follows:
a)Arranging  (bringing about) deals in;
b)Making arrangements  with a view to transactions in;
c)Advising  on; or
d)Agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)-(c)
in relation to designated  investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-
related general insurance.
As appointed  representatives of Sesame, members and advisers can therefore  carry out 
those activities detailed above  (dependent upon any restrictions inherent in your membership  
contract and your authorisation), these are referred to as the Scope of Permission. 
The activities  Sesame permitted its ARs to carry out was further  qualified in section 4.3, entitled How 
are activities  restricted?. This says:
The Networks scope of permission does not allow  members or advisers  to carry  out certain 
areas of business. Below we detail the areas where  restrictions apply
And section  4.3.4, entitled Activities not permitted,  provides a list of prohibited  activities, including:
Unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS) - these are outside the scope of 
permission and should  not be used.
Section 7 of the manual, entitled Licencing for Specialist Products, also says:
Your membership of Sesame means that you can only provide advice  within the
product areas covered by Sesames Scope of Permission.
It then includes a table that says UCIS are not permitted,  after which it says:
You cannot advise on, or sell Shares, Unregulated  Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS), 
Commodity Funds, Qualified  Investor Schemes  or Experienced Investor  Funds under  any 
circumstances.
The manual refers to a separate  Scope of Permission  document and Sesame has also provided a 
copy of this as it appeared when Mrs D invested. It summarises the products that could be advised on 
and/or arranged  by Sesames representatives. The first table  sets out the activities representatives 
were permitted to carry out and the products this applied to. This confirms representatives were 
authorised for the following regulated activities:
Advising on investments, which are, packaged products (except of pension transfers & 
pension opt-outs);
Arranging (bringing  about) deals in investments
Making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
In terms of the particular products to which this applies, both SIPPs  and personal  pensions are listed.
The second  table is entitled  Exclusions and sets out a list of unauthorised products and says:  
Sesame members are unable to arrange  and/or advise on any of the products listed below.
Ref: DRN255199711UCIS are included in this list
My interpretation of this information is that Sesame authorised Ideal FS to arrange  and advise on 
investments, including SIPPs and personal  pensions. But it specifically  didnt authorise Ideal FS to 
advise on or arrange UCIS, which is what Mrs D ended up investing  in. So if Mrs D had invested in a 
UCIS in isolation, I think Id have to conclude this wasnt business Sesame accepted responsibility for.
As I said earlier, things arent that simple as Mrs D invested via her SIPP and any activities involving  
the UCIS also involved  rights within the SIPP.  And activities involving SIPPs were  permitted. So Ive 
considered whether the UCIS  exclusion  was sufficient  for Sesame  to avoid  liability for activities also 
involving the SIPP. This isnt straightforward, but I think the section of the compliance manual  that 
says representatives werent permitted to advise on UCIS under any circumstances has to be 
interpreted to include UCIS  arranged within  a SIPP. So if the transaction  about which Mrs D is 
complaining only involved  investing money held in her SIPP into a UCIS, again I think  Id have to 
conclude that this wasnt  business for which  Sesame accepted responsibility.
But I dont think it would be correct to describe  the transaction in this way either as it ignores the fact 
Mrs D also switched  money from her Scottish Life personal pension  to the SIPP and that it was this 
money that funded her investment. It seems clear that the only reason for switching benefits  to the 
SIPP was to facilitate the UCIS. That investment couldnt have been made via Mrs Ds personal  
pension, so I think  its right to conclude  that all activities involving the pension switch to the SIPP and 
the UCIS investment are part and parcel  of the same overall transaction.
While Sesame doesnt  appear  to have authorised Ideal FS to advise  on or make arrangements for 
Mrs D to invest in UCIS,  including through her SIPP, I think the compliance manual and Scope of 
Permission document are clear that it did authorise  its AR to advise on and make arrangements for 
Mrs D to switch  her Scottish Life personal pension benefits to a SIPP. And for the reasons  Ive 
explained above, I think Mr B did carry out these regulated activities.
In simple terms, advice involving the Stirling  Mortimer  investment (an activity for which Sesame didnt 
accept responsibility) was merely the final step in an overall transaction that began with the advice  to 
switch Mrs Ds personal pension benefits with Scottish  Life (an activity for which Sesame did accept  
responsibility) to the SIPP. That Sesame can be held responsible for all steps in this transaction, 
including those that werent authorised or regulated,  is confirmed in the case  of TenetConnect 
Services Ltd v Financial  Ombudsman Service (2018), where the judge  said in section  59:
The FSMA  intended that regulated activity, and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction should  be part 
of a financial service consumers protection. The legislative provisions should be construed 
so that, if part of what  is done as a single activity is regulated, the whole is regulated rather  
than the other  way round.  Otherwise,  the regulated  part loses  the protection which the FSMA  
requires that it should have. If, to accord that protection, aspects which by themselves  would 
not be regulated are brought into the protective scope of regulation  and the Ombudsmans  
jurisdiction, those giving advice will have to make sure that their regulated and unregulated 
activities are separated, rather than using the unregulated to escape the consequences of 
intermingling them with the regulated. 
Because Sesame accepted responsibility for some of Mr Bs activities that made  up part of the overall  
transaction, I think it follows that its responsible  for all elements of the transaction. 
I appreciate Sesame may feel that some of the steps it expected of its representatives  when providing 
advice, issuing suitability letters for example, werent  followed on this occasion.  But as Ive already 
said, that doesnt  mean advice (as defined in the RAO) wasnt given. Further, any processes Sesame 
put in place covering the way in which  business should  be carried out dont relate to what  business it 
was accepting responsibility  for. They instead relate to how that business was conducted. I think  the 
Sense v Anderson case makes it clear  this means Sesame cant  avoid responsibility  for any business 
simply because it wasnt given in the way it would  have wanted.
Ref: DRN255199712conclusions on jurisdiction
Its currently my conclusion that Mr B of Ideal FS was involved in the regulated activities of advising 
on and arranging for Mrs Ds personal  pension  benefits to be switched  to a SIPP to fund the Stirling 
Mortimer investment.  And that all the component parts of that transaction formed  a single  overall 
transaction. On the basis that Sesame accepted responsibility for the regulated activities undertaken 
in connection with part of the transaction  advising  on and making arrangements for the Scottish  Life 
pension  I think its responsible for the entire  transaction. Im therefore  satisfied the complaint falls 
within our jurisdiction and is one we can consider.
Merits
For the reasons  Ive explained, I believe Mr B did advise  Mrs D on her pension switch and investment. 
It follows that when giving that advice, he had a responsibility to make recommendations that were 
suitable for her circumstances and needs.
As Ive also said, I think its clear Mr B was involved in arranging for Mrs Ds pension benefits to be 
switched to the SIPP.  Even if this was the limit of his involvement in what happened, which I dont 
accept was the case, theres no dispute that he knew how Mrs D was going  to be investing and that 
he still had a responsibility to make sure the investment was suitable. I believe this is confirmed in an 
Alert on pension transfers and switches with a view to investing  into unregulated products through 
SIPPs issued by the regulator  at that time, the Financial Services Authority  (FSA) - in January  2013.  
Although the alert was issued after the actions in this case took place, it commented on how the rules 
and over-arching Principles should have been complied with at the time.
The alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advise rs are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  investme nts  (some   which  may  be  in Unregulated   
Collective   Investment   Schemes) . Examples   of   these   unregulated investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents, store  pods,  forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt (e.g. an overseas 
property development). When customers express an interest in the unregulated investment, 
the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP 
capable of holding the unregulated investment. The financial adviser does not give advice on 
the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of 
holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated financial  adviser also assists 
the customer  to unlock monies  held in other investments  (e.g. other pension arrangements) 
so that the customer  is able to invest in the unregulated investment.
. . . .
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
Ref: DRN255199713The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice   generally requires 
consid eration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investm ent in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), 
consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to 
financial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
impleme nting a wider investment strategy the pension  transfer must take account of the 
overall investme nt strategy the custom er is contemplatin g.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowi ng that the custom er 
will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas 
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investm ent 
must form part of the advice  about whether the customer should  transfer into the SIPP. If, 
takin g into account the individual circumst ances of the custom er, the original pension 
produc t, including its underlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the custom er, then the SIPP 
is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
I think  the guidance  confirms  that Mr B shouldnt have been making arrangements to switch  Mrs Ds 
pension benefits  to the SIPP without first considering the type of investments shed go on to use and 
whether these were  suitable  for her.
Taking everything into account, I think its clear that I now need to consider whether  Mrs Ds 
investment was suitable  for her needs. And if not, whether its appropriate to require  Sesame to put 
things right.
From the fact find completed by Mr B, my understanding of Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of her 
pension switch and investment are as follows:
she was in her forties and married with young children;
she wasnt working but was considering a part-time career;
she had an outstanding mortgage of £186,000 on her home, which  was valued at around 
£400,000; and
she had deposit-based savings of around £49,000  and personal  equity plans  (PEPs)  valued 
at around £65,000.
The fact find doesnt include full details of Mrs Ds pension arrangements, but it does record that she 
had another  personal  pension in addition  to her Scottish  Life pension.  She believes this was worth 
around £22,000 in 2007 and says she also had relatively  small sums retained in different occupational 
schemes. According to Mr Bs recent recollection of events, the money  she invested with Stirling 
Mortimer accounted for around 20% of her pension savings.
The Stirling Mortimer  investment wasnt held in a well-diversified selection of equities  and other 
orthodox assets. It instead invested in a single  commodity that was based overseas  and therefore 
involved additional currency risk. It was also an unregulated investment, which meant Mrs D couldnt  
fall back on the protection offered by the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme  (FSCS) if things 
went wrong. This was a high-risk, specialised investment of the type the industry regulator has said 
shouldnt be promoted  to unsophisticated retail investors. 
Ref: DRN255199714In terms of the level of risk she was willing  to accept, Mrs D told Sesame in its complaint 
questionnaire that she was only prepared  to take a low risk with her pension  savings. In his 
statement, Mr B said shed  always been assessed as a balanced or moderate risk investor. 
Considering this information, in conjunction with her circumstances at the time,  its my view that the 
risks associated with the Stirling Mortimer investment exceeded the degree of risk Mrs D was willing  
to accept to her money.
I note Mr B now says Mrs D was willing to take a greater degree of risk with this particular money, but 
Ive not seen  any evidence to support this statement, including in the fact find completed at the time.
Mr B said in his statement  that the money being invested accounted for a significant proportion (20%) 
of Mrs Ds overall pension savings. At a time when she wasnt working and had no obvious means  of 
replacing any lost pension benefits,  her capacity  for loss was likely to be limited. In these 
circumstances, I think its unlikely  shed  have  suddenly decided she wanted to expose this amount of 
her money  to a greater degree  of risk than shed  previously been willing to accept. 
Further, any consideration of whether the advice  to switch to the SIPP was suitable  for Mrs D should 
have gone further than a consideration of the whether the type of investments shed be using  
matched her attitude to risk. Mr B should also have considered other factors,  including charges, which 
are typically  higher for SIPPs than for other types of personal pension. This should  have been a 
particularly important consideration in Mrs Ds circumstances given the amount  switched was 
relatively small and the negative impact of higher fees could be comparatively more significant than if 
shed had a larger fund.
Taking everything into account, its my view that any advice for Mrs D to switch her Scottish Life 
pension benefits  to the SIPP to fund the Stirling  Mortimer investment was unsuitable. I think the 
investment involved a greater  degree of risk than she would knowingly have accepted.  And in terms 
of the SIPP, which is likely to have involved higher charges than her Scottish Life pension, the only 
reason I can see for switching her benefits was to fund an investment  she couldnt have otherwise 
accessed. So this also seems unsuitable  and unnecessary. 
Sesames recent comments indicate it believes  Mrs D was an insistent client who acted  against Mr 
Bs advice not to invest with Stirling Mortimer. For Mrs D to be viewed  as a truly insistent client, Id 
expect to see evidence that Mr B had explained  why what was being proposed was unsuitable,  clearly 
advised her against this course of action, and offered  alternative advice that was suitable. As Sesame 
has noted, Mr B didnt  provide a suitability  report and Ive not found  anything in the fact find or other 
documentation Ive seen from the time of sale to indicate that any of these things happened. So I 
dont think I can reasonably  conclude Mrs D proceeded with the pension switch and investment 
despite advice to the contrary.
Conclusions
For the reasons  Ive outlined, I believe Mr B of Ideal FS was involved in the regulated activities  of 
advising Mrs D on switching her pension  benefits to the SIPP and her investment with Stirling 
Mortimer. Further,  I think the evidence shows that the pension switch and investment were unsuitable  
for Mrs Ds circumstances and needs. Im satisfied Mr B was acting as an AR of Sesame when he 
carried out these activities and that the overall transaction involved activities Sesame accepted 
responsibility for. So I think its appropriate to hold Sesame responsible  for any loss Mrs D has 
suffered.
Putting Things Right
My aim is that Mrs D should be put as closely as possible  into the position  shed now be in if shed 
been given suitable  advice. Its not possible  to say precisely what  she would  have done instead.  But 
with appropriate advice, I dont think she would  have proceeded with the Stirling Mortimer investment. 
And given  the only reason  for setting  it up appears to have  been to facilitate this investment, I dont 
Ref: DRN255199715think she would have switched her pension  benefits to the SIPP either. On the basis that Mrs D says 
she was approached by Mr B about the investment and doesnt appear to have had any plans to 
change her pension benefits, I believe its most likely shed have remained in her Scottish  Life 
personal pension.
what should Sesame  do?
To compensate Mrs D fairly, Sesame should compare the performance of her SIPP  with what she 
would have achieved  if her money had remained  invested in her Scottish  Life pension and in the 
same fund(s).  If the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and compensation  is 
payable. Sesame  should  also add interest as set out below. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, Sesame should pay into Mrs Ds pension  plan to increase its value  by the amount  of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Sesame is unable  to pay the compensation into Mrs Ds pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Ds actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
her selected  retirement  age. For example, if shes likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic rate of tax. However,  if Mrs D would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
actual value
This is the actual value  of the SIPP at the date of my final decision. AJ Bell has told us that the Stirling 
Mortimer investment has been removed  from the SIPP and that charges have reduced the balance to 
nil. So this is the actual  value  of the SIPP that should  be used in calculating the compensation  due.
If Sesame believes the investment may have a value in future, it can contact the SIPP provider  about  
taking ownership of it. It would need to agree an appropriate purchase price with the SIPP provider 
directly and this shouldnt  impact on the settlement  of Mrs Ds complaint. 
If Sesame doesnt take ownership of the investment and is concerned  Mrs D may receive money  from 
it in the future,  however unlikely  that may seem, it can require Mrs D to provide an undertaking  to pay 
it any amount she may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking  must allow for any 
tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing  the receipt from the pension plan.  Sesame would 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what Mrs Ds pension savings would be worth (at the date of my final decision) if theyd 
remained invested in her Scottish Life pension  and in the same fund(s). Sesame should  ask Scottish 
Life to calculate this notional valuation.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private  Investors  
Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income total return 
index) should  be used to calculate  what  the Scottish  Life pension would now be worth.  In my view, 
thats a reasonable proxy  for the type of return that could have  been achieved  if the pension had been 
held in suitable funds.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair value 
Ref: DRN255199716calculation at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation from 
that point  on.
interest
If compensation isnt paid within 28 days of Sesame being notified that Mrs D has accepted my final 
decision, it should add simple interest at 8% per year to the compensation amount from the date of 
my decision  to the date its paid.
Income tax may be payable on any interest. If Sesame  deducts income tax from the interest,  it should  
tell Mrs D how much has been taken off. It should give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
What about the SIPP once compensation has been paid?
AJ Bell has told us that the Stirling Mortimer  investment has been  removed from the SIPP, so there 
doesnt appear to be any reason Mrs D cant close the SIPP if she wants to. She may want to seek 
advice about her options before making  any decisions  about this and more  generally  about how to 
invest the money in her pension going forward.
additional compensation
I think  the problems Mrs D has experienced  with her pension arrangements as a result of the actions 
of Sesames AR have caused her considerable unnecessary trouble  and upset  over a prolonged 
period and that she should  be compensated for that. The precise impact of this situation on Mrs D, 
and therefore the amount  to award, is difficult to assess. But in the circumstances, I think  a substantial 
payment of £500 is fair and reasonable. Sesame would need to pay this amount direct to Mrs D (not 
into her pension) in addition to any compensation calculated using  the method outlined above.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think Sesame Limited  
should pay Mrs D compensation  calculated  using the method set out above.
Ref: DRN2551997