K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) dealt 
with a claim that was made against her motor insurance policy  after she was involved in an 
incident with another car. 
background
Miss B said she was at a petrol station  and needed  to reverse slightly  in order to reach the 
pump. She said she checked  her mirrors before doing so and saw no other cars. When she 
reversed though there was a car behind her which she hit. She said it was a very minor  
collision and neither of the cars were damaged. 
Miss B said the third party  later asked her for large  sums of money to fix his bumper  but she 
ignored him so he contacted her insurer, Admiral.  Miss B said Admiral settled the third 
partys claim  without  investigating first. This affected her no claims bonus (NCB) which was 
reduced from 12 years to three and it will also result  in an increase in her future premiums. 
Miss B complained to Admiral who didnt  uphold her complaint. It said, under the policy, its 
allowed to make liability decisions  based  on the information available  to it. Admiral said 
because Miss B was the party that was reversing it would be difficult to defend the claim on 
her behalf.  Miss B told Admiral she was also concerned  that the third party was claiming for 
damage that wasnt caused  by the accident. Admiral said it would review the third party 
claim when  it was received and wouldnt  make  any payments before confirming that the 
costs were consistent with damage  caused by such a low speed incident.  
Miss B was unhappy  with Admirals response and complained to us. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. He thought Admiral made the correct  decision in the 
circumstances.
Miss B then asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said she never agreed she was at 
fault for the incident. She said Admiral didnt investigate the incident properly and that the 
third party must have seen her and may have collided with her on purpose  as his car was old 
and already damaged. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
The policy says, among other things, that Admiral  is entitled to conduct the defence  and 
settlement of a claim made against  its insured  and to admit negligence for any accident on 
their behalf.  This isnt an unusual term when it comes to motor insurance policies and we 
think insurers can rely on this term- though wed usually  say they should deal with claims on 
a without prejudice  basis  if they dont have  their insureds instructions to admit liability.  And 
as long as theyre  applying  the term fairly and reasonably. 
Admiral said this wasnt a case it could defend because  Miss B was the reversing party.  Its 
not our role to determine how a court would decide  liability in each  case. But we can look at 
whether the insurer  acted  fairly and reasonably based on the information  and evidence it had 
at the time. Miss B said she checked  her mirrors but couldnt  see another car. It was only 
Ref: DRN23999172after the collision that she realised the third party was behind her. She also said she didnt 
know whether the third party  was moving  at the time. But as Miss B was reversing it was her 
responsibility to make  sure that the way was clear at all times,  and if that had happened its 
unlikely she would have  hit the other car. So based on these  circumstances of the incident  I 
dont think Admiral was being  unreasonable when it agreed to deal with the third party  claim. 
Miss B said Admiral  shouldve  done  further  investigations including  obtaining  CCTV footage 
of the incident.  As there is no dispute as to how the accident happened- i.e. Miss B doesnt 
dispute she was the reversing party-  I dont think CCTV wouldve been of much  assistance in 
any event. And there is also no guarantee the CCTV wouldve captured  the incident clearly 
or at all.
We asked Admiral whether it dealt  with the claim on a without prejudice basis. It said no 
payments have been made yet and that there has been no communication with the third 
party insurer. But it said any payments to the third party will be made on a without  prejudice  
basis.
Miss B said she is concerned the third party will claim for damage that wasnt  caused by the 
accident. Admiral said it hasnt yet received the third partys vehicle damage claim. And 
when it does it will ensure  that it only pays for damage which  is consistent  with this low 
speed incident. I think this is fair and reasonable but if, when the third party claim is settled, 
Miss B is unhappy with the amount Admiral pays shes  free to complain to it and then to us if 
necessary. 
Miss Bs insurance policy says, among other  things, that if she doesnt have protected or 
guaranteed NCB her NCB will be reduced. The policy also says that anyone  who has five 
years or more NCB  makes one claim and hasnt protected  their NCB, their NCB  will be 
reduced to three years at the next renewal. This is clearly stated in a table within  the policy  
and so I think Admiral can rely on this. 
From what  Ive seen Miss B hadnt protected or guaranteed her NCB. She had eleven years  
NCB. So I think Admiral reducing her NCB  to three  years is in line with its policy.  If Miss B 
wants Admiral  to write a letter that she can produce  to other  insurers  to confirm  that her NCB 
was eleven years before it was reduced  to three because Admirals maximum in five, she 
may request this and wed expect Admiral to agree. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2399917