K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled his motor trade insurance 
policy and didnt provide any reason for it. 
Mr L is represented in bringing this complaint but for ease Ill refer to all actions  and 
comments as being those of Mr L. 
background
Mr L had held his motor trade policy  since  2007.  In August 2017 UKI wrote  to Mr L to say it 
no longer wanted  to insure him. It referred to the terms and conditions of the policy that said 
UKI could  cancel the policy  giving 14 days notice in writing. Mr L asked UKI for a reason but 
UKI said it had cancelled the policy  in accordance with the terms and conditions.  
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought UKI had acted in accordance with 
its terms and conditions  so she didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr L didnt agree. He didnt  
think not providing a reason was treating him fairly.  He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ls policy say UKI can cancel the policy by giving a minimum 
of 14 days notice by writing to him at his last known address. This means the terms and 
conditions allow it to cancel the policy without giving Mr L its reasons. I can see UKI wrote  to 
Mr L on 24 August 2017 to say it was cancelling his policy with effect from 7 September  
2017. 
I appreciate its frustrating for UKI to have not provided Mr L with a reason and understand 
Mr L doesnt think UKI has treated him fairly.  But Im satisfied its acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. So Im not going  to interfere  with UKIs decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN2430763