K820x#14complaint
Mr R, representing Mr and Mrs C, complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  
blocked their savings account from re-investment  and didnt post maturity  instructions to    
Mr R. 
background
Mr and Mrs C held a fixed term savings account with Halifax and re-invested it each time it 
reached maturity.
Mr and Mrs C live abroad, and Mr R represents  them in their dealings with Halifax  by way of 
a power of attorney.
In late 2018, the investment was approaching maturity. Mr R says he didnt receive a letter 
notifying him that the maturity date was approaching and what he could  do.
When Mr R contacted Halifax  to re-invest the deposit, Halifax told him the account was 
blocked, and that a fixed term re-investment wasnt an option he had. Mr R asked Halifax for 
an explanation  for the block, but they couldnt give him one. Mr R withdrew the funds  and 
closed the account.
Mr R complained to Halifax about  the blocking of the account- he wanted to know who 
placed the block and why. He also asked them why they hadnt  written  to him about  the 
accounts imminent maturity. 
In Halifaxs final response letter, they explained  to Mr R that the block he described was an 
internal indicator on their records. And that it was designed to prompt  any staff member 
dealing with account transactions to refer to their customer  notes. They said that they are 
entitled to add such indicators and they didnt have to explain why they added them. They 
didnt offer any compensation.
Mr R disagreed with Halifaxs reply and complained to us.
Mr R asked us to direct Halifax to compensate him for his time, and the stress hed been 
caused, and to find out who blocked  the account  and why.
An investigator looked at the evidence and circumstances of Mr Rs complaint and she could 
see Mr R had been caused frustration and inconvenience by Halifax. She could see the 
reason that the investment had a block on it was due to Halifaxs policy on non-UK resident 
depositors. She could also see Mr R said that he hadnt received a letter before the 
investment matured. But she considered it likely  that a letter  was sent to him, and that she 
felt Mr R was already aware of the maturity  date. The investigator did not consider any 
compensation was due to Mr R as he isnt Halifaxs customer and we cant  award any 
compensation to him in his personal  capacity. Mr and Mrs C are Halifaxs customers. She 
couldnt see that any distress or inconvenience had been caused to them  as they had 
access to their money on the maturity date and it was Mr Rs choice not to re-invest it.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator, and says Halifax have  acted unfairly. So the matter  has 
been passed to me.
Ref: DRN22778242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, Ive looked at the way Halifax  informed  Mr R about the upcoming maturity of the 
deposit funds.  
Ive seen that its likely Mr R was sent a letter  by Halifax  giving him notice of the maturity 
date of the investment. I cant say that Halifax should have done  anything more to tell Mr R 
when the investment was maturing. Im also aware that Mr R was likely to have known the 
maturity date already  as hed re-invested the funds on several occasions previously. And he 
did phone  Halifax before the maturity  date to find out where the letter  was that hed been 
expecting. This call shows he was aware of the approximate  maturity date before it came 
around. And he was given the exact  date when  he called.
Secondly, Ive looked at what Halifax did when Mr R contacted  them about re-investing the 
funds. The call he made to Halifax makes it clear that Halifax said they couldnt re-invest the 
funds due to a block on the account.  I can see why this would concern Mr R as the maturity 
date was fast approaching. In conversations with Mr R, Halifax  referred to the block as 
having been in place  during previous re-investments on the account,  but I cant  see that     
Mr R ever knew this. I can understand why Mr R would have been further concerned and 
that he made a number  of calls to resolve the matter.
When Mr R phoned Halifax before the maturity  date I can see he knew the approximate  date 
the investment  expired. And as a result  of that call, he also knew  he could only re-invest  for 
the same  period as the expiring investment. Ive seen that the cause of the block on the 
account is because  Mr and Mrs C are non-UK resident account holders, but the account 
correspondence address is a UK address. 
Halifax have said that their policy when an account owner is non-UK resident is that any 
fixed term re-investment can only be done  on the same terms as the maturing investment. 
Mr and Mrs Cs maturing investment was for 2 years, so Halifaxs policy meant that they 
could only fix any re-investment over 2 years.  It appears Halifax placed this block on the 
account to bring  that policy to the attention  of any Halifax staff dealing with the account when 
it approaches maturity.  
But I also think it would have been  helpful to Mr R if Halifax  had explained to him, when he 
tried to re-invest, exactly what the account block related to. This lack of clarity caused  Mr R 
to become stressed.
Mr R went to a branch of Halifax for an appointment to discuss  the re-investment. During this 
meeting the agent removed the block. But he says he was told by the agent that it couldnt 
be guaranteed  that the block wouldnt happen  again on any future re-investments. Mr R says 
the agent didnt know why the block was on the account. And because of this, Mr R decided  
to avoid future possible problems with blocking and withdrew the funds and closed the 
account. I can understand why he felt that way.
I can see the inconvenience Mr R suffered  as a result. But I cant  award Mr R any 
compensation in his personal capacity as he isnt a customer of Halifax. Mr R is appointed  
under a power of attorney to act for Mr and Mrs C, and Mr and Mrs C are Halifaxs 
Ref: DRN22778243customers. In these circumstances, I cant fairly say that Mr and Mrs C have experienced 
any distress,  inconvenience  or loss as a result anything Halifax may have done. This is 
because it was only Mr R that dealt with the Halifax staff and there was no delay caused to 
Mr and Mrs C in accessing their money. So I wont be directing Halifax do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2277824