K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC has stopped them  depositing money with a 
paying in envelope through their local branch.
  
background
Mrs and Mr R have been used to paying in cash and cheques into their joint account  by 
using a paying in envelope  through their branchs letter box. But Lloyds has now limited  this 
facility to its business customers.  Mrs and Mr R said they cant get to their local branch when 
its open during  the week. And its now closed  on a Saturday.
Lloyds said it made  its decision after carrying out a detailed review and analysis and that it 
wouldnt be changing its policy in the near future. It said Mrs and Mr R could use the Post 
Office to make deposits into their account.
The adjudicator thought  Lloyds was entitled  to make a commercial  decision to withdraw this 
method of depositing  monies. But as itd made  alternative arrangements  for them  to use the 
Post Office  to do this she didnt think itd acted unfairly.
Mrs and Mr R werent  happy with this. They said they had tried using the Post Office but it 
was now a very long winded  process and Mrs R had to wait over 20 minutes in a queue of 
15 customers at the Post Office. They were also concerned their bank details were visible on 
the outside of the envelope.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mrs and Mr R feel about this and I can understand their frustration. 
And although I know they want Lloyds to return to its previous system  to allow them  to 
deposit monies at their local branch  thats not something I can ask it to do. We dont regulate 
banks. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  which deals with broader 
issues affecting large numbers of consumers. And thats why I cant comment on Lloyds 
decision to remove this facility from all its personal customers. But I see if anything has gone 
wrong with the way Lloyds has implemented its decision in relation  to Mrs and Mr R.
I can appreciate how upsetting  this has been  for them as they have been banking  in a 
certain way with Lloyds  for a number of years. But it has arranged alternative facilities  for its 
personal customers. And although these may be less convenient and may cause some 
delay, the decision  of Lloyds to change  the way it offers  its services  to its customers  isnt a 
decision this Service can interfere with.
Mrs R is worried  about the details of her bank account being on the outside  of the paying in 
envelope. But as there arent any further  details  on that envelope I cant see there is any 
security risk to her bank  account.
Ref: DRN27606312Mrs and Mr R believe Lloyds is discriminating against elderly customers, and customers who 
live in rural areas.  But this change  to the banking  facilities affects  all Lloyds personal 
customers and not just a particular  group of people. And although I know Mrs and Mr R 
wont agree  with me I think  the alternative  facilities Lloyds has arranged are fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2760631