K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a monthly  premium  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss L took out a credit card in 1999.  Miss L is complaining about the PPI policy sold to her 
in connection  with this credit  card.
The policy wouldve paid 10% of the monthly  outstanding balance if Miss L was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think  there  was 
enough evidence  to suggest that Miss L was given the opportunity  during the sale to actively  
confirm that she wanted  to take the policy out.
Barclays disagreed.  So the complaint has been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ls complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Barclays had to make sure Miss L understood she had a choice in taking PPI and that she 
consented to having it added to her account.
PPI wasnt sold to Miss L when she applied for her credit card.  The policy  was sold to her 
later during  a phone call a couple of weeks after she applied for her credit card.
Barclays cant tell us anything about  this call. It doesnt have a call transcript or recording 
and it cant provide a script that mightve  been  in use at the time. So I dont know  what  was 
said to Miss L about the PPI and whether it was presented as optional. 
Barclays say as Miss L was already in receipt of her card when the PPI was sold to her she 
wouldve been aware that her credit application had been approved, so she wouldve 
understood she didnt need  PPI to have  the credit card.
But its not clear if the policy was sold during an activation call or in a separate  phone  call 
afterwards. And Barclays havent  been  able to supply credit card statements from Miss Ls 
account when  the PPI was first added, so I cant tell if Miss L used the card before the PPI 
was sold. Had Barclays been able to do this I may have been  able to conclude that she 
wouldve known she didnt  have to have the policy  to get the credit.
Barclays say that if Miss L didnt  want the policy she couldve cancelled it at any time. But I 
dont think that telling  someone  they have the right to cancel the policy  shows  me that Miss L 
agreed to take out the policy.
Ref: DRN26719332So based  on the information  Ive seen, I cant say its more  likely Miss L agreed to take the 
policy and it follows that I uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
I note what Barclays has said about the policy being  suitable for Miss L, but as Im upholding 
her complaint for the reason Ive stated  I dont need to consider this further.
what Barclays should do to put things  right
Barclays should put Miss L in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Barclays should find out how much Miss L would owe on her credit  card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Miss L owes  and what  she 
would have owed.
If Miss L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Miss L would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss L paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Miss L paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss L wouldve  owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C.Barclays should tell Miss L what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Miss L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint  against Barclays  Bank  UK PLC and 
direct it pay Miss L the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.  
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2671933