K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a mortgage. Ms C and Mr W say Santander  UK PLC,  Abbey National at the time,  
mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms C and Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms C and Mr W say they werent aware  they were sold PPI with their mortgage. But based 
on the evidence  Ive seen I think it was clear  they didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out in Ms Cs name  only  although I can understand  why they cant 
remember this now. I say this because Ms C and Mr W took the PPI out over the phone  after 
their mortgage had commenced  so I think they wouldve known this wasnt a condition of 
having their mortgage  agreed.  Ive also seen a copy of a welcome  letter that was sent to 
Ms C after the call which confirms that the PPI had been set up for accident and sickness 
cover in Ms Cs name. As the policy was personalised to cover  her for accident and sickness  
only, I think this suggests that a conversation  took place where Ms C decided  what level of 
cover she wanted. In addition, I think if Ms C hadnt  agreed to the policy  as set out in the 
welcome letter, she wouldve contacted Santander at that point to question this further.  
Ms C and Mr W say Santander didnt recommend the PPI to them.  Santander doesnt know  
if it recommended the policy - but its willing to treat this as a recommended  sale.  As things 
stand, there  isnt enough information to determine  this point. But being  able to do so isnt 
crucial to the outcome because, had Santander recommended  the policy, I think it wouldve 
been a suitable recommendation to have made  for the reasons I set out below. As a result, 
Ive considered the complaint on the same basis as Santander.
As an advised sale Santander  had to check that the PPI was right for Ms C (as the insured  
party)  and based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  Ms C said she wouldve been  entitled to sick pay 
at the time, but as a Director of her own company I think  she wouldve benefited from having 
external cover, so her business was protected. In any event, the PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of the sick pay she wouldve received so these funds couldve been used for other  
expenses as needed. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Ms C and Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover for Ms C. And it seems like it would have been  useful  for them  if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C and Mr W. 
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C and Mr W because: 
Ref: DRN20324992Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms C and Mr W about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Ms C and Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ms C and Mr W have  also questioned whether they took out PPI on an earlier mortgage. But 
this decision is about the PPI attached to their mortgage taken out in 1999.  If Ms C and 
Mr W believe they were  sold PPI on an earlier mortgage and would like to peruse this 
further, please let us know.   
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Ms C and Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Santander should also pay back  to Ms C and Mr W 
any extra  interest  they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Ms C and Mr W the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Ms C and Mr W 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms C and Mr W can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms C and Mr W.
But Santander UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms C and Mr W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2032499