K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy that, despite asking Santander UK Plc to make a chargeback for a 
purchase shed  made online for a course, they refused to do so.
Santander claims that Miss M didnt provided all the information they required. 
background
An investigator has already considered this matter.  She wasnt  minded to uphold  the 
complaint. 
Unhappy with this outcome,  Miss M has asked that this case  be referred to an ombudsman 
for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im afraid  I too am unable  to uphold this 
complaint for reasons  already expressed  by the investigator.  
As I understand Miss C approached Santander and advised that the merchant hadnt  
provided her with all the services shed paid for. Under the rules, a chargeback can be 
actioned if Miss C did not receive the merchandise or services  because the Merchant or 
Prepaid Partner was unwilling or unable to provide the merchandise  or services.  Miss C 
provided Santander with information  that she had. But Santander said that, based  on the 
information sent to them,  they couldnt conclude what Miss C had or hadnt received in 
respect of the services  from the merchant.  As such Santander said they couldnt  action the 
chargeback. 
I appreciate that Miss C feels  very strongly  that had Santander properly explained why they 
were refusing to action  the chargeback, she would have provided  further  information.  Instead 
she says Santander  simply  kept asking for her contract  with the merchant,  which she didnt 
have. 
Upon considering all the evidence, I do agree with Santander in this case. And I dont 
believe theyve acted  unfairly. Under the chargeback rules the amount of the chargeback  is 
limited to the amount of services not received. Im afraid ultimately  I dont think  the 
information sent by Miss C clarified this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2141213