K820x#14complaint
Miss K has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)  has treated her unfairly  by applying 
for a warrant  of eviction  for her property.  She is also upset that BOS called the police  to 
attend her home.
background
Miss K has a mortgage  with BOS taken out in November 2006. The account has been  in 
arrears since May 2007. The arrears  are now about  £62,000. 
BOS has a suspended possession order on the property, because  of the arrears. Attempts 
to enforce the order over the past few years  have been abandoned because Miss K has 
threatened to commit suicide if her home  is taken away. But numerous promises  to repay 
the arrears have not been adhered to. The matter was brought  back  before the court in 
November 2018  because BOS had a warrant of eviction and Miss K asked the court to 
suspend the warrant  and cancel the eviction.
On 12 November 2018 the court made an order that the warrant  of eviction was to be 
suspended provided Miss K paid the monthly  instalment of £1,431.99 plus £360.95 off the 
arrears  a total of £1,792.94 per month.  Unusually, the order  contained  the following in its 
preamble:    upon the court warning [Miss K] that she would have no second chance  if the 
monthly instalment  and arrears set out below was not paid regularly and on time The 
order also provided that Miss K would have to seek permission  of a District Judge to make 
any further application to suspend a warrant of eviction.
Ten days  later Miss K complained to BOS  about how it had treated her. 
Miss K said shed been treated  unfairly  because BOS had promised to capitalise the arrears 
if shed made 12 months payments. Miss K was also unhappy that BOS  had sent the police 
to her house, and she considered it hadnt treated  her fairly or taken her circumstances into 
account in relation to the arrears. Miss K said that shed arranged  to rent out the house via 
AirBnB and said that, once shed finished  her PhD, shed be earning around £70,000 a year.
Miss K also outlined her personal circumstances (which I will not set out here in order  to 
maintain her anonymity). She said that, every time the matter  had gone to court, BOS had 
refused to take any of it into account. She denied BOSs contention that she didnt live in the 
property and was unhappy at what BOS  had said about her payment history.  Miss K said 
BOS hadnt responded to her letters or addressed any of her concerns.
In its final response dated 5 December 2018 BOS  said that it didnt think  it had acted 
unfairly. It said there was no arrangement to capitalise  the arrears or extending the mortgage 
term. BOS said Miss Ks circumstances had been noted. 
The bank explained that the police had been called  after a telephone conversation  with 
Miss K where she had threatened to harm herself.  BOS said it had a responsibility to notify 
the policy where there were concerns about  the welfare of a customer.  If the police had 
caused damage to the property, Miss K would need  to raise this directly with the police.
BOS noted that Miss K had told it she intended to sell the house  within  the next six months.  
BOS said it would not suspend legal action  if Miss K wasnt  able to provide  evidence of the 
completion date.
Ref: DRN23829122In February 2019,  because the terms of the order dated 12 November 2018 had not been 
kept to, a further warrant of eviction was issued  by the court to enable  BOS to take 
possession of the property. Rather than make an application to the court  to suspend the 
warrant (which  would,  as noted above,  have required the permission of a District Judge), 
instead Miss K contacted us and asked us to intervene. 
BOS agreed to suspend  the eviction pending our consideration of the complaint.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. He thought in 
all the circumstances  that BOS had acted  reasonably, given the position on the account.
Miss K didnt agree with the investigators  findings,  so it now falls to me to issue  a final 
decision on this matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over 1,200 pages of documents.  Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
I will begin by explaining  that the Financial Ombudsman Service  has no power to interfere 
with a court order. This means  that where the court has decided that money is owed by 
Miss K to BOS, I have no power to overturn that or decide something different.
In this case, the court has already decided that Miss K is liable for the arrears.  I havent seen 
all the court orders, but the first possession order is dated 31 July 2013.  I understand the 
case was back before the court on 19 November  2014 and 28 June 2016.  The last order  
confirming that Miss K had to repay the arrears  was made on 12 November 2018. 
I know from the background to this complaint  all of which  Ive read  that Miss K has 
experienced a tumultuous series  of events going  back to 2010 in her personal  life which she 
considers have led to her being unable to repay  the arrears. I dont doubt that those events 
have been upsetting for her. I know BOS has also been aware  of all these circumstances, 
because they are recorded multiple  times in the case  notes. There is nothing in the banks 
voluminous and detailed records to suggest  it ever agreed to capitalise arrears or extend the 
mortgage term. 
Ref: DRN23829123I appreciate Miss K is unhappy  at what she considers to be unfair  treatment by BOS and that 
it didnt take her circumstances into account.  But the court  has already decided that Miss K 
is responsible for the arrears; if the court had considered that BOS  hadnt acted fairly in 
pursuing Miss K for the arrears, it wouldnt have granted a possession  order.
The court order  dated  12 November 2018  set the current terms upon which Miss K is 
required to repay the arrears. I have no power  to change that or tell BOS  to do something 
different. Both BOS and Miss K are bound  by the terms of the court  order.
The implication for this complaint is that I will not be commenting on any of the issues which  
pre-date the order of 12 November 2018   including all the background information  provided  
by Miss K about how the arrears accrued  and the difficulties shes had in making  payments.
Because the court has already set the terms on which  the arrears  are to be repaid, this 
decision is confined to considering whats happened  since  the complaint was last before the 
court in November 2018.
Im satisfied that Miss K didnt keep  to the terms of the order  granted  on 12 November 2018.  
The payment history for the account confirms this. BOS proceeded to issue  a further warrant 
of eviction. At this point  Miss K contacted  the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Lenders will generally agree to put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but 
they dont have to and we cant force them  to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to 
have that power  would seriously undermine our impartiality between  the parties to a 
complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers abusing  our service by 
making complaints  with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take 
legitimate action to recover money  owed to them.
In this case, BOS  agreed to cancel the eviction while  we looked at the complaint. 
Miss K could  and (in my opinion)  should  - have applied to the court  to suspend the 
warrant. There is a specific court process for suspending warrants  of eviction which Miss K 
had used in the past.  So Im satisfied she knew how the court process  worked. But its clear 
from the order made on 12 November 2018 that she knew  this was her last chance  with the 
court and I think Miss K was aware when she complained to us that the likelihood of the 
court agreeing to cancel the eviction was very small.
I am hesitant  to suggest that Miss K brought  her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in order to bypass  the court process  to suspend the eviction. But I think this is a 
legitimate conclusion to have  drawn,  because the court order  dated 12 November 2018  
made it clear  that this was her last chance  and so its unlikely any further suspension would 
have been agreed. But by complaining to us, Miss K achieved her aim of having the eviction 
cancelled, and without  having to go to court.
I also note the arrears have increased  substantially since November  2018,  the only recent 
payments being  £52.60 per month from the Department of Work and Pensions. Looking  at 
the account history  since November  2018, I dont consider BOS acted unreasonably in 
reapplying for a warrant of eviction because Im satisfied the order of 12 November 2018 
was breached. If Miss K disagrees she has breached the order, she will need  to raise this 
with the court where it was made.
Ref: DRN23829124With regard to the police being called, Im satisfied BOS had genuine concerns that Miss K 
intended to harm herself. The banks  records show that shed said on several previous 
occasions that she would commit suicide if BOS  proceeded with eviction. So I think  BOSs 
concerns were legitimate and that calling the police  to carry out a welfare check was a 
proportionate response when Miss K threatened  to harm herself.
In December 2018 Miss K told BOS that she wanted six months to sell the property, but 
eight months later this has not happened. Indeed Miss K has told us that she is offering the 
property for short-term lets on AirBnB (which  I think is likely to be in breach of the mortgage  
terms and conditions for a residential mortgage). 
I am sympathetic to Miss Ks circumstances, as it seems shes  been through a series of 
distressing events going back almost  ten years. It is to her credit that throughout this time 
Miss K has been able to work in her chosen profession and undertake research for her PhD. 
But this doesnt  cancel out BOSs  entitlement to receive payment of the mortgage and 
arrears.
It is in the light of this that I must reiterate that, if there is a further application  for a warrant of 
eviction, Miss K will need to apply  to court to have the warrant suspended. I do not want  
Miss K to be under any misunderstanding that we will be able to intervene  again. Our rules 
allow us to decline to consider a complaint where its already subject to court proceedings. 
So I think its only fair to let Miss K know that any future request to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to ask BOS to cancel an eviction  is likely to be unsuccessful,  because  
we are unable  to interfere in a case which is already before the courts.
I know this isnt the outcome Miss K wanted,  and I am sorry if my decision causes her any 
distress. But in all the circumstances,  I dont think BOS has treated  her unfairly or 
unreasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2382912