K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1994 Mr and Mrs W bought PPI at the same time as they applied  for a mortgage in one of 
the banks branches. The policy  was in Mr Ws sole name and gave him protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete (as some 
of it is here), Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what  
I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what  we know about how Halifax 
sold PPI at the time. 
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs W that the PPI was optional, and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs W recall they were told it was unlikely theyd get the 
mortgage if they didnt take out PPI. The bank  disputes this, saying its more likely than not 
that the optional nature was verbally explained in good time before the sale concluded.
I cant know what was said in the meeting, and Halifax no longer has Mr and Mrs Ws 
paperwork from the sale. But thats  not surprising  or unreasonable as it was 25 years ago. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ws comments, but I also have to take into account 
how long ago the meeting  was and how that might affect what  they remember.
 
Overall, without stronger evidence that Halifax  didnt  make Mr and Mrs W aware  the PPI was 
optional and they didnt agree to take it out for Mr W, I cant  fairly uphold their complaint on 
this point.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W and I think it seems  to have been right for him based
on what Ive seen. Mr W has told us he was entitled three months  full pay and three months 
half pay if he was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to any work benefits for 
up to 12 months for all accident  and sickness claims. Mr W also said he was entitled  to a 
redundancy package, but again the PPI would have paid out in addition to this work benefit 
and for up to 12 months. It would have allowed him to protect  any lump sum redundancy 
payment, giving increased financial  security at an already difficult  time.
Mr and Mrs W were borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. 
Given how serious the effects of not keeping  up with their mortgage repayments could have 
been, I think the PPI would  have been useful for them if Mr W was sick, had an accident or 
lost his job.
Ref: DRN21372822Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the information they needed  before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Mr W doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  (such as those affecting people  with 
pre-existing medical conditions or on certain  types  of employment contract). Overall, I dont 
think better information wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2137282