K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK Plc wouldnt consider an application from them to 
extend the term of their mortgage. They say it told them to come  back when they had six 
months left on the term of their mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs B have  an interest only mortgage with Santander. The term is due to end in 
2020. Mr and Mrs B say they contacted  Santander to discuss  extending the term of their 
mortgage. They say they were told there was nothing Santander could do until it was nearer 
the end of the existing term.
Our investigator didnt  think it was fair for Santander  to turn Mr and Mrs B away when they 
were trying to improve their situation. He said that Santander should pay them £200 to 
reflect the additional stress  and worry thats caused  and consider  an application.
Santander didnt  accept what the investigator said. It initially said that it had set out what  Mr 
and Mrs B needed to do for an application to be considered but they hadnt come back  to 
begin an application. 
The investigator didnt  think the evidence provided  by Santander supported  this. Santander  
responded to say that as Mr and Mrs Bs repayment  vehicle was the sale of their home  it 
didnt meet their lending  criteria so it was possible that is what they were told when they 
spoke to Santander. They would need  to contact Santander again when they had six months  
remaining on their mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  a number of complaints with us relating to this matter.  Im not looking at 
the sale of the mortgage or what has happened in the application subsequent to this 
complaint. I am satisfied  these are all distinct and separate complaints. 
I consider that Mr and Mrs B spoke to Santander in July 2017 and were told there was 
nothing it could do to help them at that time.  I say this because we have a phone note from 
Santander that shows it explained its process  to Mr and Mrs B. Santander has now told us 
its policy was that as Mr and Mrs Bs repayment  vehicle wasnt  acceptable to it, then it would 
only consider an application to extend  the term when the term was near its end. It follows,  it 
is likely  this is what they were told.
Under the relevant rules, Santander has some discretion to approve changes  to a mortgage  
where it is in a borrowers best interests.  I consider it would have  been  fair and reasonable 
for Santander to take steps to look at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and think about whether 
there was anything it could do to help them when they contacted it in 2017.  I dont  consider  it 
was fair for Santander to tell Mr and Mrs B there  was nothing it could do until the term had 
almost ended. I think this has caused  Mr and Mrs B unnecessary worry and stress.  I agree 
with the investigator  that Santander should pay them £200 to reflect  this. 
Ref: DRN27445072Santander should also fairly  assess whether a term extension is in Mr and Mrs Bs best 
interests. I understand  this process  is already  underway.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it Santander  UK 
Plc should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B £200 to reflect the trouble and upset this matter has caused to them.
Consider an application from Mr and Mrs B to extend the term of their mortgage  paying 
due regard to the relevant rules. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2744507