K820x#14complaint
Its agreed that Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mrs H says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs H bought the policy in 1998 at the same  time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
I sent Mrs H and FICL my provisional  decision on 7 December 2018  explaining  why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  I said that before I made  my final decision, Id 
consider any final points the parties  wanted  to make, so long as I received them before 
7 January 2019.
Neither Mrs H nor FICL  sent me any further points in response  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint because:
FICL has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which I can see 
Mrs H signed.  Theres a separate section for the PPI on the credit agreement, and in this 
I can see theres  a tick next to the statement to say Mrs H wished to take out the PPI. Ive 
thought carefully about what Mrs H has said,  but overall  I just dont  think theres enough  
evidence here that Mrs H wasnt given a choice.  So I think  its most likely  that FICL made 
Mrs H aware that she had a choice  about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs H doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based  on what  I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying it.
Ref: DRN26296872Ive taken into account Mrs Hs comments,  including what shes said about  her working 
part-time and her sick pay. However, the credit agreement from the time, which Mrs H 
signed, records that Mrs H was in full-time employment, not part-time employment;  and 
Mrs H hasnt provided enough evidence to make  me think this isnt right. So I dont think this 
makes a difference. Mrs H has also told us conflicting information about the level of sick pay 
she was entitled  to at the time.  And overall I think she wouldve still thought the PPI could be 
useful. So for these reasons, and the reasons  explained above, these points dont change 
my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2629687