K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about three mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.          
Mrs H says Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS)  mis-sold the policies to her.
background
Mrs H took out a mortgage  with YBS in 2000.  She re-mortgaged twice  in 2002 and in 2004. 
On each occasion she was sold a PPI policy to protect her mortgage repayments.             
The policies covered her against not being able to work due to an accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment. The policies  could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for an 
unemployment claim and 24 months for a sickness or accident claim.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think the policies were mis-sold. Mrs H disagreed with 
the adjudicators  findings, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
YBS hasnt been  able to show us any of the original paperwork  from the time of the first two 
sales and there is limited evidence from the 2004 sale.  I dont find this surprising as the 
sales took place  so long ago and the mortgages have long since been  redeemed. But where  
there is limited information,  Ill make  my decision based on whats  more likely to have 
happened, taking into account  the evidence available, what both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types  of sale.
Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold because:
Mrs W has told us she was led to believe that the 2000 mortgage application would be more 
likely to be accepted  if she took out PPI. And later in 2002  and 2004 she chose to take PPI 
based on what she was told in 2000.
Ive thought about this but from experience of how these types  of policies were sold I think it 
is most  likely  that the optional nature  of the policies would have been made clear. For the 
2004 sale there is an application form and direct debit mandate  available and signed by    
Mrs H.
I accept it is possible that in 2000  Mrs H was told itd help her application. But I have to take 
into account that this was a conversation that took place  19 years ago and memories  do 
fade. And its also possible that Mrs H was told she should consider taking cover for her new 
mortgage, but that is different to saying she had to.
 
Taking all this into account, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to make me think  its 
most likely YBS failed  to give Mrs H a fair choice  about whether to buy the policies. 
I dont know what information about  the policies Mrs H was given at the time of the sale. Its 
possible that YBS didnt  give all the information it should have done. But thats not enough to 
uphold this complaint.  I next need to decide  whether or not Mrs H would have changed her 
Ref: DRN26479112mind about  buying  the policy if she had been given  better or clearer  information. I cant  say 
she would  have done. I say this for the following  reasons:
Mrs H was eligible for the policies and wasnt caught  by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations in the terms and conditions. For example she had no existing medical conditions 
that would  not have  been covered. 
I think Mrs H chose to take out the policies - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.
Mrs H took out the mortgages in her name only, so she was solely responsible  for making  
the repayments. 
Mrs H has told us she would receive some sick pay from her employer if she could not work.  
But these  particular PPI policies could have paid a monthly benefit  for up to 24 months. This 
is likely  to have been much longer than any sick pay would last.
And the policies would pay a benefit  for up to 12 months if Mrs H lost her job.
Mrs H had some savings,  but she chose to keep those savings intact rather than apply for a 
smaller mortgage. So I think they would have been  important to her. And the PPI policies 
would have meant she didnt have to use her savings to make  the mortgage  repayments if 
things went wrong.
So it seems  the policies would have been  useful for Mrs H if something went wrong. It also 
looks like they were  affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would  have 
put her off taking out the policy.  
In summary  I think its most likely  YBS made it clear the policies were optional and Mrs H 
chose to take them out. And even if YBS had given  her all the information  it shouldve, I still 
think she wouldve bought  the PPI policies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Yorkshire  
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2647911