K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them the MPPI. Mr and Mrs A were 
sold other products  alongside the MPPI but this decision is only in regards to the MPPI 
element.
background
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs A a choice and they chose to take out the MPPI. I 
say this because  of what we know about how Bank  of Scotland  sold MPPI at the time. Bank 
of Scotlands records show the MPPI was sold to cover Mr A only, when an advance was 
taken on the mortgage. And that this was sold over the telephone, from the evidence 
provided by Bank of Scotland, I think it wouldve told Mr A that the MPPI  was optional, as its 
telephone advisers were  prompted to do so at the time. Bank of Scotland has also told us 
that Mr A declined other optional products in the call.
Whilst I cant be sure exactly what was said to Mr A, based  on what  we know about how 
these policies were  sold, I think its likely  the optionality was made clear. So I think  Mr and 
Mrs A were  given a choice and chose to take out the MPPI.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr A only, so it had to check  that the MPPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI  cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
The MPPI was a comparatively low cost policy when compared  to what it could  pay out. And 
the consequences of missing repayments on a mortgage could be serious.  So I think the 
MPPI wouldve given  Mr and Mrs A some peace of mind that if Mr A lost his job or was off 
sick long term, the mortgage repayments would be met.
Mr and Mrs A say that Mrs A was made  redundant but didnt claim on the plan and so this 
shows they werent aware of the policy. But the MPPI only covered Mr A, so Mrs A wouldnt 
have been able to claim on this in any event.
Mr and Mrs A have  also said that if they were in financial difficulty  they couldve sold their car 
to make the monthly  payments  and their family couldve helped them. But I dont think this 
means the MPPI  was mis-sold. The purpose of MPPI  is so that mortgage repayments can be 
met without  resorting to measures such as selling vehicles or asking family for financial help.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs A about the MPPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But it seems  like it would have been useful for them  if something 
went wrong. So on balance I dont think better  information about the MPPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN24012982Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A have  said - but I dont think the MPPI was mis-
sold, so these points  dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint  and make  no 
award.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2401298