K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs H doesnt think PPI was mentioned to her when she took out her credit card in 
branch. Barclays has been  able to give me a copy of the signed  application  form. In this, 
there was a separate section for PPI that gave a brief description of the cover. I can see 
Mrs H has ticked  the box to confirm  she wanted  to take out the policy. And I think it was 
clear she couldve left the box blank if she didnt want PPI. So, I think  Barclays made it 
clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant  remember this.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mrs H had no sick pay available to her at 
the time,  and had some savings. But the policy couldve  covered her for up to 12 months  
per claim if she was too ill to work, had an accident or was made  redundant.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
Ref: DRN22120792But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2212079