K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) avoided  his car insurance  policy  for 
fraudulent misrepresentation. 
background
Mr S took out a car insurance policy through UKI. UKI found  that there were a number of 
issues with the information that was disclosed when the policy  was applied for. It thought 
that Mr S deliberately  provided false information so it avoided the insurance policy. It said it 
had the following issues:
It didnt think Mr S took out the policy himself and it was taken  out through an 
unregulated broker;
Mr S had said he was a married man, but he wasnt;
There were  a number of previously avoided insurance policies on the car before.
Mr S didnt agree with this and complained to UKI. UKI discussed this matter  with him and it 
says that he continued to provide incorrect information. It says that Mr S said again on this 
call that he was married. Mr S disputes that he said that he was married. And he says that 
UKI unfairly  referred to his sexual  orientation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Mr S had deliberately  
given false information.  And he says that UKI could avoid the insurance policy  in these 
circumstances. He also didnt think UKI acted unfairly in putting  Mr Ss information  on the 
fraud database. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr S is unhappy that UKI has avoided his insurance policy and put his information on a fraud  
database. UKI says that he deliberately gave incorrect information.
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) Mr S 
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when applying  for his 
insurance policy. And, for the insurer to take any action at all, it needs to show Mr S didnt do 
this and that he made whats  described as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
When Mr S took out the policy he said that he was married to the named driver and he would 
have received a reduced premium as a result of this. Ive listened to the telephone  call Mr S 
had with UKI when  he called  to query  why the policy was avoided. In this call, Mr S was 
asked a number  of questions. In particular he was asked what  his relationship was with the 
named driver was and he said he was married. But thats not the case.  UKI later in the call 
asked Mr S if he was reading the answers  off the policy document and Mr S confirmed that 
he was. I think its clear  to me that he continued  to give incorrect  information and reaffirmed 
the incorrect information hed previously given.  
Ref: DRN28262432I note Mr S says that he was confused,  but I disagree. I think  he freely  gave  false  and 
incorrect information to clear and unambiguous  questions asked. And Im satisfied that it was 
done deliberately.
Mr S has said that he took the policy out with his friend. And he says his friend must have 
put incorrect information on the policy. While that may be the case,  it was Mr Ss 
responsibility to ensure  the correct information was given to UKI. And I also cant ignore the 
fact that Mr S verified  the incorrect information when asked about it. Taking everything into 
account I dont  think it was unfair that UKI said Mr S deliberately and continually  gave 
incorrect information to get a cheaper  premium. 
CIDRA says that UKI was entitled to avoid the insurance policy back  to the beginning in 
these circumstances.  So it was entitled to avoid  the policy  in the way it did. I also dont think  
it was unfair  for it to record his details on the fraud  database.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2826243