K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the advice he received from HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) in 2018  to 
invest £100,000  in a bond.  He says this advice  was unsuitable.
background
Mr H met with HSBC on two occasions  in May 2018.  Following  these two meetings, and 
after a fact find had been completed, HSBC issued  Mr H with a financial planning report 
dated 23 May 2018.
In this report HSBC recommended that Mr H invest £100,000 in a bond. The cost of HSBCs 
advice, in the event Mr H invested along the lines recommended, was £2,750.
Mr H accepted HSBCs advice and invested,  paying  HSBC £2,750 for its advice. Mr Hs 
£100,000 was invested in an HSBC Life Onshore Investment Bond with £3,000 invested in a 
cash account and £97,000 in the HSBC World Selection Conservative  Portfolio.
After Mr H invested, but before the expiry  of 14 days, Mr H took the decision to cancel his 
investment. His invested funds were returned to him but not the advice  fee of £2,750.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. In summary  he concluded that 
HSBCs advice was suitable  and therefore it need do nothing further.
Mr H disagreed and so his complaint has been  passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same findings as the investigator  and for the same reasons.  There  is also very 
little I can usefully add to what has already been  said.
Ive considered how Mr Hs £100,000  was invested. And having done so Im not persuaded it 
was exposed to a higher level of risk than Mr H was able or willing to take, this having  been 
assessed by HSBC as being  lower  risk. I would also add that based  on what  Mr H says 
were his personal circumstances in May 2018  (including, but not limited  to, his net income 
and existing savings  and investments) and his objectives, I dont disagree with HSBCs  
assessment of his attitude to risk, an assessment  that was made after the completion of a 
fairly detailed questionnaire.
I would also add that what HSBC recommended Mr H do was to invest  just over half of the 
cash he had available  on deposit, meaning  that he would have been  left with approximately 
£90,000 cash on deposit for future  expenditure and purchases.
Given what I say above, and having had regard to Mr Hs wider personal circumstances, 
objectives and attitude to risk as recorded by HSBC in May 2018, Im satisfied  that HSBCs 
advice was suitable. 
However for the sake of completeness, I would like to address  the three specific points  
raised by Mr H as to why he feels HSBCs advice was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN26145332Mr H says HSBCs  advice was unsuitable because of his age, Mr H being over 80 in 2018.  
But Mr Hs age in 2018 needs to be considered against other  factors. And given Mr Hs 
objective was recorded as being  the desire to invest for the remainder of his life (actuarially 
assessed as being seven  years), I dont think HSBCs advice could  be said to be unsuitable 
for this reason.
Mr H says HSBCs  advice was unsuitable because he was looking for an income generating 
investment rather than a growth one. But regardless of how Mr Hs £100,000 was invested 
(for example in growth assets rather than income generating assets) Mr H had the ability  to 
withdraw 5% of his investment annually, thus providing him with an income. So I dont  think  
HSBCs advice could be said to be unsuitable  for this reason. For the sake of completeness I 
would also add that Im satisfied the nature of the recommended investment was adequately 
explained to Mr H before he elected  to invest,  including the investment strategy of the fund 
manager.
Mr H says HSBC didnt  sufficiently explore his income tax status  in May 2018, in particular 
around his personal  allowance.  And this failure meant HSBCs advice was unsuitable. Now 
its not clear to me what  Mr H believes his personal  allowance is for the tax year 2018/19. 
But Im satisfied that HSBC correctly  identified Mr H as being either a non-tax  payer,  or a 
basic rate tax payer, for the tax year 2018/19  and this status  was taken into account  in its 
recommendation. Furthermore,  I think its worth pointing out that different investments  have  
different advantages and disadvantages, including tax, and all of an investments 
advantages and disadvantages  need  to be considered together,  not just one of them  in 
isolation. So with this in mind I dont  think HSBCs  advice could be said to be unsuitable  for 
the reason of Mr Hs tax status.
I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed by my findings, but have taken everything  into 
account Im simply not persuaded that HSBCs advice  was unsuitable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2614533