K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. I see Mr and Mrs H previously complained about other 
financial products, so to be clear,  this decision is about PPI on their secured loan, ending in 
the numbers 921-5.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  this PPI policy in 1995  whilst  taking out the loan. Although this was a 
joint loan, it seems only Mr H was covered  by the PPI. They  applied  for the loan and PPI 
policy in a branch.  
Because these  events  date back to 1995, we no longer have access to all the paperwork 
wed normally like to see. However, this isnt unusual, given the time period, nor is it 
unreasonable in my view; businesses arent required to keep  records  indefinitely. 
Nevertheless, we do know the loan was repayable  over a 252-month term and was for 
£6000. We also know the PPI policy provided  cover for Mr H for accident, sickness,  
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It cost £6.38  per month and offered 
to repay  Mr and Mrs Hs monthly loan repayments for up to 60 months  in the event of a 
successful disability claim and for 12 months in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as an assistant manager. Given what hes said about  his 
job, I think hed have  been entitled  to moderate sick pay and potentially,  some very limited  
redundancy pay. Im not aware of he and Mrs H having any other relevant financial means. I 
understand Mr H to have  been in good health at the time of the sale. The loan agreement  
was terminated  in March 2003.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs H 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN20678972The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue;
The policy contains an unfair contract  term that gives the business  the right to 
unilaterally vary the cover and premium.  Mr and Mrs H also say that the non-
disclosure of this term is a breach of the duty of utmost good faith; 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN20678973The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN20678974Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  the complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  We no longer have the original, 
signed credit  agreement.  But Im aware  of the processes  and the types of forms that were 
typically used at the time. Thats  because Ive seen a great many Halifax  loans from that 
time period. My experience is that a discussion would most likely have taken place where  Mr 
and Mrs H would have  been given a choice  about the PPI being added. And Mr and Mrs H 
would have then been given a printed  form to check and sign, based on that discussion. So I 
think the form would have shown the PPI on it and it would have been clear  enough that they 
were adding PPI to protect Mr Hs income,  should he be unable to work. I also think  the PPI 
cost would have  been shown prominently on the form, outlining how much theyd have to 
pay each month for this type of cover.
Taking everything into account,  I think its much more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew  the 
policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mr and Mrs H agree  that advice was provided  during this sale.  This means  
it had to advise  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  
was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. It seems  Mr and Mrs H cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting  in 1995. However, the adviser had some 
limited information about  Mr and Mrs Hs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr H would  have been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Halifax considered whether Mr H 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Hs ability  to 
continue to meet their loan repayments would  have been put under strain if he was 
not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for work-related benefits 
Mr H says he would have  been  entitled to.
Ref: DRN20678975-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  Mr H would have received only moderate  
sick pay if he was unable to work  due to illness
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr Hs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr H was unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the approximate 
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Hs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN20678976Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H suggested.  And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
What effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent  did Mr 
and Mrs H suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr 
and Mrs H suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently, or whether they would 
have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their loan payments in the event Mr H was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
I also think the information they were  given about  the cost was probably was clear.  But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and exclusions might  not 
have been as clear  as it should have been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN20678977The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  that Mr H knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs H wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr H was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  they 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr H didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
H might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs H from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs H, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if Mr H was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view hey might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr H was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  were Mr H made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs H would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Ref: DRN20678978Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think this policy contains an unfair contract  term  allowing 
the business to unilaterally vary the cover and the premium. 
I accept Halifax shouldve  done more to clearly  bring the contractual term about the insurers 
right to unilaterally vary the cover  and premium to Mr and Mrs Hs attention. Im satisfied this 
was a significant term and I think Mr and Mrs H would have wanted  to know  about  this. 
Because Mr and Mrs H werent  clearly  told I dont think  Halifax  acted fairly and reasonably in 
this case. But even if Halifax had done more to highlight the term clearly to Mr and Mrs H, I 
dont think this wouldve  made a difference to their decision to buy the PPI. As Ive set out 
above, Mr and Mrs H had good reasons to take out the policy.  Im also mindful that Mr and 
Mrs H had the right to withdraw  from the policy, with notice, at any time. So if any changes  
Ref: DRN20678979were proposed by the insurer, Mr and Mrs H had a reasonable amount of time to consider if 
they wanted to continue  with the policy. 
So while I accept Halifax shouldve done more to bring this term to their attention,  for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont  think they wouldve been put off buying  the policy if 
Halifax had done  more. 
I note Mr and Mrs H say the failure to tell him clearly about this clause was a breach of the 
duty of utmost  good faith. Ive set out above  my findings in connection with the duty of 
utmost good  faith and I consider that similar considerations apply in connection with this 
clause. So Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs comments on this point. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  Whilst  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1995 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2067897