K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Mr C has complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken 
out in December 2006 in connection with a mortgage. 
Hitachi Capital Insurance Europe Limited (Hitachi)  says that a different business  
Business B  was responsible for the sale of the PPI. So Hitachi  says that it was not 
responsible for the sale of the PPI.
This case is complicated by the fact that, although it is set up against Hitachi,  another  
business  Business A  has been responding on behalf of Hitachi,  as it administered 
Hitachis PPI policies.  However, the dispute  on who sold the policy  is effectively between  
Hitachi and Business A. Business B is a trading name of Business  A.
An adjudicator looked at the case and found that Hitachi was responsible  for the sale of the 
PPI on the basis  that the responses from Business A (on behalf  of Hitachi) suggested that 
Hitachi was responsible for the sale. Since then I have contacted Hitachi  directly and it has 
disagreed with the adjudicators view.  
The case  has come  to me to make  a decision. I set out in my provisional decision dated  17 
April 2019 why I was minded  to find that Hitachi was not responsible for the sale of the PPI. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. 
Business A has received  a copy of the provisional decision in its capacity as the 
administrator for Hitachi. It has made further  submissions  indicating that it was Hitachi who 
sold the PPI and not Business A. Mr Cs representatives have indicated they have nothing 
further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
The first thing I need to decide is whether Hitachi is responsible for the sale of the 
policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether the sale happened as it shouldve  
done. If I dont think Hitachi was responsible for the sale of the policy  to Mr C, then 
Im not going  to be able to uphold a complaint  about the PPI sale against Hitachi.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and at what Hitachi, Business A and Mr C 
have told us about the sale.
Hitachi and Business A agree that Mr Cs wife (who was an existing customer of 
Hitachi) was sent a general mailshot in February 2006 promoting Hitachis  new 
product  mortgage payment protection  insurance.  As a result of this Mr C contacted  
Hitachi to take out PPI cover in respect of a mortgage in March  2006. It is agreed by 
both Hitachi and Business A that Hitachi was responsible for this sale,  as Mr C 
contacted Hitachi  by telephone in order to take out the policy.
In December 2006, Mr C cancelled the policy he had taken out in March  2006 and 
took out a new policy  (ending 3289) in respect  of a mortgage at a new address. 
Ref: DRN28963012Hitachi says that Mr C did this by contacting Business B (which  is a trading name of 
Business A) and therefore that Hitachi were not involved in the sale of the second  
policy. This is the policy that Mr C is complaining about.
Business A says that in December 2006 Mr C moved house and wished to alter his 
policy address and mortgage amount. It says that its system at that time didnt allow 
policies to be amended so the old policy was cancelled and a replacement policy in 
the higher amount reissued. Business A says that although it took on this 
administrative function, this was effectively an alteration to the original policy  and 
what it terms a mid-term  adjust.  It therefore says that Hitachi is responsible  for the 
sale as it sold the original policy.
Business A says that although it dealt with the increase as part of its administrative  
function, at no time did anyone advise Mr C on the policy.  It says that as Mr C 
applied independently for the increase in cover and didnt  receive  any advice he 
cannot have been mis-sold the policy. 
At this stage I am just trying to determine who sold the policy,  as opposed  to whether 
it was an advised  or non-advised  sale or indeed whether it was mis-sold. So the lack 
of any advice has no bearing on who sold the policy and whether there was a new 
sale in December 2006 as it still could have  been  sold on an information only basis  at 
that point.
So the issue  in this case is effectively whether the policy  taken out in December 2006 
was a new policy (in which case Hitachi would not be responsible  for the sale as this 
would be a new and separate  sale to the one Hitachi was responsible for in March  
2006) or the result of an amendment to an existing policy (in which case Hitachi  
would be responsible for the sale as it accepts  it sold the existing policy  in March 
2006).
I have seen the policy schedule for the PPI which confirms  that it started on 20 
December 2006.  So this demonstrates  that a new policy number was set up in 
December 2006  as opposed  to the continuation and amendment of an old policy. 
Although I appreciate what  Business  A has said about its system not allowing 
amendments at the time.
Business A says that there was not a new application form and that it would have 
taken the instruction on the phone to increase  the sum insured. Business A says that 
Mr C would have been asked questions about his mortgage as he had requested  the 
cover to be increased from a monthly  benefit of £305 to £350. It says that all eligibility 
questions would have  been asked at the point of sale in March 2006 so it would have 
no reason to ask these  again.
I have seen a form titled  Policy Application  which is headed with Business Bs 
name. I can see that various questions appear to have been completed  on this. 
These questions were whether Mr C would be between 18 and 65 at the inception of 
the policy; whether  he worked in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man; whether he 
had any illness, disease, condition or injury  that occurred in the 12 months prior to 
commencement of the policy that may cause  him to make  a claim for disability and 
whether he was aware of any pending  unemployment prior to the commencement  of 
the policy. 
Ref: DRN28963013So these appear  to be questions surrounding  Mr Cs eligibility and issues which may 
affect his ability to claim on the policy. Given that the form relates  to the policy 
number ending 3289  which was only issued to start on 20 December 2006  it is 
difficult to see how the answers to these questions could have been inputted onto the 
form based on answers which were given  in March 2006. 
I have seen a letter dated 21 December 2006  from Business B to Mr C thanking him 
for taking  out PPI with Business B and enclosing his personalised schedule  of cover, 
a copy of his application  and his policy. The letter also informs Mr C that Business A 
has been appointed to administer insurance  policies on behalf of Business  B. So this 
letter indicates that Mr C took out the PPI with Business B. However, it doesnt assist  
me to any great degree as Business B is likely  to have dealt with the administration  
of the policy  whoever it was sold by.
Business A has provided some internal reports showing that the policy was sold by 
Employee A on 20 December 2006.  Business A explained that Employee  A was a 
Hitachi employee who either made the call or processed the new policy on Business 
Bs system.  It says she was selling on behalf  of Hitachi. Business A says that 
Business B was a joint venture between Hitachi and Business A. I can see from the 
Financial Conduct  Authority database that Business A was a trading name  of 
Business A from December 2005  to October  2012.
Hitachi says that the records will just show Employee As name on it as Business Bs 
system needs the name of someone  at Hitachi when setting up the policy. It says that 
Employee A would  not have spoken to Mr C about  the policy. Business A has 
subsequently clarified that when the policy  was changed its system generated a new 
policy number which was assigned  to Hitachi and Employee A to ensure Hitachi  
continued to receive  monthly commission from the customer. 
So it seems  that, although  Business As internal reports for this policy  show it was 
sold by a Hitachi employee in December 2006,  in fact this doesnt assist as to which 
company actually sold the policy.  This is because it appears that both Hitachi  and 
Business A now accept  that Employee  As name was merely assigned to the policy  
without her having any involvement in the call made by Mr C in December  2006.
Business As internal  reports also show that the policy had three  months free. I have 
seen a letter  from Business A to Mr C dated  19 March 2007 thanking  him for taking 
the PPI with Hitachi and confirming his direct debit details ready for his first payment 
date of 1 April 2007. So this supports the fact that the policy  was free for the first 
three months. 
In light of the above, I am satisfied that Hitachi was not responsible  for the sale of the 
PPI. I am satisfied that, although Hitachi sold the initial policy in March  2006, there  
was a new sale in December 2006  which Hitachi was not involved  in. I say this 
because there was a new policy number, a new property,  a new monthly benefit 
figure and a new cost.  Further,  the application form for the new policy indicates that 
questions regarding eligibility were asked of Mr C along with questions  regarding the 
new mortgage. 
It is my view that this was not simply an administrative change of an existing policy  - 
for example a change of policyholder details or direct debit instructions. It was a new 
policy in a different  amount for a new property, albeit with the same  policyholder.  It 
Ref: DRN28963014also seems unlikely to me that Mr C would have got a three  month free period  simply 
for changing an existing policy. So I think this also supports the fact that it was a new 
policy.
As Hitachi didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt responsible for the business who did sell it), 
Im minded  to find that Hitachi wasnt responsible for the sale.  It follows that it wasnt 
responsible for carrying out the sale properly.  So, as I dont think  it did anything 
wrong, Im intending not to uphold the complaint against Hitachi.
Following this provisional decision, Business A has made some  further  submissions. It has 
reiterated that Hitachi sold and set up the policy in the first instance. It says that Hitachi 
continued to take commission, which it says shows acceptance that there was a continuation 
of the original policy. Business A says that Hitachi was the insurer and that Business A was 
only the policy administrator. It says Hitachi decided on the PPI policy  content,  terms and its 
route to market, including  its sales processes.
In response to these  points, as set out in my provisional decision there  is no dispute that 
Hitachi sold the policy initially in March 2006. Likewise there  is no dispute that Hitachi  is the 
insurer. Any commission arrangements between the insurer and the administrator do not 
assist me to determine  whether the policy number ending 3289 taken out in December 2006 
was a new policy or the result of an amendment to an existing policy.
Business A has also said in response  to the provisional decision that this was a mid-term 
adjust request from the policyholder and that this only created a new policy  number rather  
than the policyholder requesting a new policy  to be taken out. It says Mr C followed the 
terms of the policy  wording which advise that after the sale of the policy  all changes  should 
be processed via the scheme administrator, who was Business A. Business A has provided 
a copy of the policy wording, which it says states that if any changes  need to be made to the 
policy to call the scheme administrator (Business A).
I have looked  at the Policy Terms and Conditions  provided by Business A. The only part 
which refers to contacting the scheme  administrator about changes is clause 3.6, which  
states If Your circumstances change You must contact the Scheme Administrator, at the 
address listed under  Definitions, as soon  as possible. If You do not do so Your  insurance 
cover may be affected. The following are some examples of circumstances that You must 
tell Us about:  
You are named on the Policy  Schedule  and you choose to give up Work;
You retire from Work;
You change the nature of Your Work.
It seems  clear  to me that this this clause relates  to a customer contacting Business A (as the 
administrator) in relation to changes in relation to the circumstances of the policyholder  
themselves as opposed to changes to the mortgage  to which  the PPI relates. 
Indeed, clause 13 of the document  is titled Important Notices and states This Document is 
a legal contract and it is important that You examine it carefully to make  sure that it is 
suitable for Your requirements. If it is not, or if Your insurance requirements change, please 
let Us know immediately. The meaning  of the word Us is set out in the definitions section 
of the Terms  and Conditions to mean  Hitachi. 
In light of the above, I wholly disagree with Business As submissions  that the policy  wording 
required Mr C to contact Business A to make any changes to the policy  after the sale. Mr C 
Ref: DRN28963015had changed the mortgage  and address to which the original PPI policy related to a new 
property and was increasing the amount of cover he required.  It is my view that this is clearly 
a change of the insurance requirements.  Therefore, according to these terms, Mr C would 
have been required  to contact Hitachi to make  this change and not Business A. 
I also note that clause 3 of the document provided by Business A sets out that All cover 
under this insurance will end and all Monthly Benefit will stop automatically:
When Your Mortgage or Rental Agreement ends;..
Mr C had moved house and wanted  to change his policy  address and this was the reason for 
him contacting Business A. So it seems most likely  that the mortgage for which he initially 
took out the PPI had ended and he had now got a new mortgage  on a different  property. In 
my view, this gives further support for my view that the policy taken out in December 2006 
was a new policy as opposed to a change to an existing policy.  The policy  taken out in 
March 2006 ended when the mortgage to which it related ended and then a new policy was 
set up in December  2006 for the new mortgage in a different amount.
I have considered what Business A has said but this doesnt  change my mind about who 
sold the policy. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, it is my view 
that although Hitachi sold the initial policy in March 2006, there was a new sale in December 
2006 which Hitachi was not involved in. This was not simply an administrative change of an 
existing policy but a new policy in a different amount for a new property  with a new 
mortgage. I am therefore satisfied that Hitachi was not responsible for the sale of the PPI in 
December 2006.  
As Hitachi didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt responsible for the business who did sell it), it is my 
finding that Hitachi wasnt responsible for the sale. It follows that it wasnt responsible  for 
carrying out the sale properly. So, as I dont  think it did anything  wrong,  I dont uphold  the 
complaint against  Hitachi.
I know Mr C will be disappointed that Im reaching  this conclusion. Im sorry we cant help 
him on this occasion.  It is open to Mr C to make a complaint to the other party involved about 
the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my decision is that 
Hitachi Capital Insurance Europe Limited wasnt responsible for the sale of the PPI and 
therefore I dont  uphold this complaint against  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019. 
Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2896301