K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds decision that his treatment for 
his hip problem is unproven. For this reason, AXA PPP wont  meet the full cost of his claim 
under his employers group private medical insurance policy.
background
Mr G was a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy, held with AXA 
PPP. He had a problem with his hip. His consultant diagnosed that he was suffering from a 
CAM impingement with labral tear. AXA PPP authorised him to undergo a hip arthroscopy in 
January 2019.  It was hoped that this would result in the CAM impingement being removed 
and the labral  tear being repaired.
Following the procedure, Mr Gs consultant  explained that while  the CAM impingement had 
been remedied, it hadnt been possible to repair the labral tear as the labrum  was destroyed.  
He therefore recommended that Mr G should undergo  another hip arthroscopy  procedure 
but in which  the consultant would graft in tissue from a donor.
Mr G contacted AXA PPP for authorisation for this further procedure but it said the treatment 
was unproven. It therefore said it would pay only up to the amount it would have paid for the 
equivalent, proven  procedure.  Furthermore, it would provide cover for follow-up treatment for 
a period of only two months.
Mr G complained to AXA PPP about its decision to categorise the treatment as unproven.  
He further questioned the amount it was offering towards the cost, pointing  out that this was 
less than the amount it had paid towards  the initial operation.
AXA PPP didnt uphold his complaint. It explained  how it had calculated the amount it would 
contribute.
Mr G was unhappy at AXA PPPs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that AXA PPP had acted fairly.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  findings.  He pointed out that his treatment was 
necessary. He said he hadnt received  the policys terms and conditions until after the first 
procedure. He considered that in deciding whether the treatment was proven, AXA PPP had 
relied too much on the guidelines of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 
(NICE) rather  than taking account  of international evidence. He provided  additional 
information about the efficacy of the procedure. He highlighted a previous decision by us 
which he thought  involved a similar situation to his own and in which  we had found  in favour 
of the complainant. He understood that AXA PPP had a reduced cost agreement with the 
particular hospital  and he considered he had been unfairly disadvantaged  by this.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN25965022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states  that cover is provided for conventional  treatment. The policy  defines  this 
as follows:
treatment that: 
is established as best medical  practice  and is practised widely within  the UK; and 
is clinically appropriate  in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration and the 
facility or location where the treatment  is provided; and has either
been shown  to be safe and effective for the treatment of your medical condition through  
substantive peer reviewed clinical  evidence in published authoritative medical journals; 
or
been approved  by NICE (The National Institute  for Health and Care Excellence) as a 
treatment which may be used in routine practice.
The policy goes on to explain that any treatment which is not conventional treatment is 
regarded as unproven  treatment. The policy explains that AXA PPP will consider providing 
cover for unproven treatment subject to certain restrictions. It states:
The amount we pay for unproven treatment will depend on how much it costs and how 
much we would  pay if you have conventional treatment  for your medical condition instead. 
If the unproven  treatment costs less than the equivalent conventional  treatment we will 
pay the cost of the unproven treatment.
If the unproven  treatment costs more than the equivalent conventional  treatment we will 
pay up to the cost we would  have  paid for the equivalent conventional treatment. We will 
pay up to the amount  we would have paid a specialist  and hospital  in the Directory of 
Hospitals. To understand what the equivalent conventional treatment is, we will look at 
the treatment other patients with the same medical condition  and prognosis would be 
given.
The policy further  explains that there  will be restrictions on cover after the member  has 
undergone unproven treatment. It states:
We will not pay for further treatment  for your medical condition after you have undergone 
unproven treatment, including complications or other medical conditions associated  with the 
unproven treatment.
In the case of Mr G, after the initial procedure failed  to remedy his labral tear, his consultant  
recommended that he should undergo an arthroscopic  labral  reconstruction  of the hip 
(including allograft  and harvesting). NICE hasnt approved this procedure. This means that, 
under the terms  of the policy, it should  be regarded as unproven treatment  unless there is 
substantial peer-reviewed clinical evidence published in appropriate journals to show it is 
Ref: DRN25965023safe and effective. AXA PPP concluded  that while some evidence existed, this didnt meet  
the above criteria. This was particularly because the evidence didnt show  the long-term  
effectiveness of the procedure. I think this was a reasonable position to take.
Mr G has pointed to additional  evidence but after reviewing these studies, AXA PPP 
considered they were  still insufficient to demonstrate the long-term  safety and effectiveness 
of the treatment. It pointed out that it could  find no evidence that this type of operation was 
carried out in the NHS.  Im satisfied that it was fair for AXA PPP to regard Mr Gs treatment 
as unproven under the terms of the policy.
Given that the treatment  was unproven,  AXA PPP was obliged  to pay only up to the amount 
it would  have paid for the equivalent  conventional treatment. AXA PPP has explained that 
this treatment would have been  a standard repair of hip labral  tear. It has shown that for 
such a procedure it would have paid hospital  costs of £3,799, a consultants procedure  fee of 
£550 and an anaesthetists fee of £275, giving  a total cost of £4,624.  This is the amount 
which it offered towards the cost of Mr Gs procedure. I am satisfied that AXA PPP has 
calculated this amount  fairly.
Mr G points out that for the first procedure AXA PPP paid hospital costs  of £4,978, a 
consultants procedure fee of £800 and an anaesthetists fee of £520,  giving a total cost of 
£6,298. He questioned  why there was a difference of £1,674  between  the two amounts. 
However, the two procedures are not the same. I dont consider  the fact that AXA PPP paid 
more for the first procedure means that it has acted unfairly in calculating  its contribution  
towards the second procedure.
Mr G also refers to the reduced rate AXA PPP has negotiated with a particular hospital. It is 
unfortunate if the hospital is charging Mr G a higher  rate than it would charge AXA PPP. 
However, AXA PPP is liable to pay only the amount it would have paid if Mr G underwent 
conventional treatment and, as explained above,  Im satisfied that AXA PPP is doing this.
Mr G has pointed to a previous decision which he considers involved similar  issues to his 
own case. However, the previous case was a dispute about  a different type of procedure.  
We judge each  complaint  on its own merits. I dont consider that the previous decision to 
which Mr G has referred  means that we are bound to uphold  his complaint.  
Mr G has pointed out that his treatment  was necessary. I dont dispute this. However, the 
policy doesnt guarantee to provide cover for all procedures which are medically necessary. I 
have explained  why I consider it was fair for AXA PPP to deal with the claim in the way it did.
Mr G also says he didnt receive  the terms and conditions  of his policy until after the first 
operation. Mr G didnt raise this point  with AXA PPP before referring his complaint to us. And 
as the investigator  has explained, because this is a group policy  held by Mr Gs employer, he 
should perhaps direct any complaint about  lack of information to his employer rather  than 
AXA PPP. But in any case,  Mr G was made  aware  of the policys approach to unproven 
treatment as soon  as he sought  authorisation  for the second procedure.  I cant  see how he 
was disadvantaged by not knowing about  this beforehand.
In summary,  while I sympathise with Mr G that he has been left liable  for some of the cost of 
his treatment, I consider  that AXA PPP has acted fairly. 
Ref: DRN25965024my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2596502