K820x#14Complaint
Ms S complains  about a number of matters relating to the Select current  accounts  she held 
until relatively recently with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
Background
Ms S says, in summary, that:
The amount  of interest  thats  been  charged on her overdrafts is inconsistent and 
incorrect.
There was a period  of time when RBS wouldnt allow her to manage  her accounts by 
phone.
RBS said her customer  number had been reassigned  to someone else and this meant  
she couldnt access her accounts.
RBS harassed her by insisting on a branch-based meeting to discuss her accounts along 
with some others that she was managing and threatening  closure if the meeting didnt 
take place. They  also lied when they said theyd been trying to contact her for months.
A relationship manager should  have  been  allocated given she was party  to RBSs private 
banking service.
RBS didnt deal appropriately with her enquiries about a division  of the bank  being  
divested.
RBS hasnt always replied to the complaints  shes  made.
Our investigator didnt  think RBS had done  anything  wrong. But Ms S disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will come as a disappointment to Ms S, Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator, for much  the same reasons. I dont think RBS has acted unfairly in relation to 
the matters summarised  above and Ill explain why.
But first I should say that the complaint weve been  asked to consider has evolved 
somewhat since Ms S first got in touch with us in October 2017. And one of the things she 
complained about latterly  was the banks  decision  to close her accounts.  The investigator 
who handled  this complaint corresponded with RBS and Ms S on that particular point and 
tried to help them reach  a mutually agreeable repayment plan. But, ultimately,  that later 
complaint, which  included the events  leading up to the account closures, was split out from 
this one and dealt with separately. So I havent  considered those issues  as part of this 
complaint.
Has RBS fairly calculated  the debit interest  on the overdrawn account balances?
Ms S hasnt pointed to specific incidents  when the wrong amount of interest was charged,  
her concerns  seem to have been  formed  more  generally by comparing the amounts charged 
from month to month and between the various  accounts with which she is involved. Ive 
similarly considered this point more generally.
Ref: DRN22086512Ive also borne in mind  that the Select  account terms and conditions explain interest is 
calculated on the daily overdrawn balance and will be charged once a month, a set period of 
time after the end of the relevant charging period. And Im aware thats fairly standard  across  
the banking industry.  The banks records indicate the same rate of interest has been  
charged on the accounts for many  years.  And its my understanding the monthly  interest 
calculation is an automated process. Ive taken all of this into account and can see the 
investigator performed  some example, approximate calculations  using  these parameters and 
came up with figures very close to what was actually charged.
Overall Ive not seen  enough to make me question further how the interest on Ms Ss 
accounts was calculated. So I cant fairly  conclude  that the bank has done anything wrong in 
this respect or should refund any of the charges.
Has RBS denied  Ms S fair access to the accounts?
Ms S says RBS refused  to let her discuss her accounts over the phone. But Ive seen  little to 
support this assertion and, in fact, have listened  to a number of calls when matters  relating 
to the various  accounts that Ms S manages were discussed. 
Having said that, in some of the calls Ms S became quite frustrated and, on occasion,  this 
meant the bank was unable to help her. She also admits that her relationship  with the bank 
broke down  some time before she got in touch  with us about  this complaint (in October 
2017). So its possible,  as she says,  the bank refused to let her manage the accounts over 
the phone  at some point.
Ms S hasnt said when  exactly she was given the incorrect information about her customer  
number. And I havent heard any calls or seen  any notes the bank has made about it having 
been recycled. I also think that seems unlikely to have happened  while  she had a number of 
active accounts. 
Whats also apparent is that Ms S has been able to access and manage her accounts online.  
And she hasnt pointed to any specific, individual incidents when the banks alleged  refusal  
to discuss matters over the phone  or misinformation about her customer  number have 
prevented her from doing what  she wanted  with the accounts.
In the circumstances I cant say the bank has unfairly limited Ms Ss access  to her accounts  
or the other ones that she manages for her parents, or has caused  her to suffer any financial 
loses by refusing to deal with her over the phone.
Has RBS harassed Ms S?
As Ive already  said, this complaint has evolved  somewhat  since  Ms S first came to us. 
One of her more recent concerns involved RBS trying to arrange a branch-based meeting  to 
discuss her and her parents accounts  (which she also manages by virtue  of them giving her 
permission to do so through  Powers of Attorney). A letter was sent by the bank to her in 
January 2018  about this which also says theyd tried to contact her, without success, over 
the preceding  couple of months.
I havent seen  any evidence that the bank had tried to contact Ms S previously to discuss her 
accounts, So its not clear why they said they had but I dont think that, in and of itself 
amounts to harassment.  And I dont think it was inappropriate of the bank to ask for this 
meeting given the activity on the various accounts.  I agree  with Ms S that the accounts were  
Ref: DRN22086513being managed within  their authorised  overdraft  limits but the bank  still had, I think, 
understandable concerns. Overdrafts  arent  intended to be used for long-term borrowing and 
the accounts with the larger overdraft limits, in particular,  werent  being  used  in the way the 
bank would normally expect or tolerate. In 2017 the activity tended to be limited to monthly 
credits sufficient only to cover the overdraft interest.  And little, if anything,  was being done 
towards reducing the debt.
Overall, I dont  think it was wrong of RBS to make  contact in the way it did and/or try to talk 
to and arrange a meeting with Mrs Ss to discuss her own accounts and those which  she 
was managing on her parents behalf.
Did Ms S have a private  banking arrangement?
RBS currently offers a premier banking service with one of the benefits  being a premier  
banking manager  to help with your financial plans or guide you through  more complex 
decisions. This seems akin to the private banking service Ms S has referred to and which  
she thinks means should have given her access to a relationship manager. 
Theres some indication  Ms S might  have been  party to a private banking arrangement at 
some point in time. I can certainly see shes had a number of conversations with RBSs  
private banking  team.  But the bank says eligibility for a relationship or premier  banking 
manager has changed over the years. And, from what Ive seen, the type of accounts  she 
held and the way theyve  been operated in recent years means she wasnt  eligible for 
private/premier banking.
In the circumstances I dont think Ms S should  have been allocated a premier banking 
manager. 
Should RBS have done more in relation to Ms Ss enquiries about the proposed divestment?
Ms S hasnt been  specific about the problems she experienced when RBS originally got in 
touch with regards  to the divestment of one of their divisions. All shes  really said is that it 
was handled poorly. Weve  invited her to elaborate on this but she hasnt  done  so, so theres 
little I can usefully say without more detail about  her concerns
Having said that, I can see RBS dealt with a complaint related to this point in February 2017. 
There seems  to have been  a problem with information Ms S was provided about which 
accounts would be affected by the divestment. The banks  notes  indicate  she was given  
incorrect information but they corrected  this, it seems, fairly promptly after she raised her 
concerns. And the divestment didnt take place in the end.
In the circumstances I dont think that RBS needs  to do anything more.
Has RBS failed  to progress Ms Ss complaints?
In her response to the investigator, Ms S said RBS has repeatedly  failed to follow  due 
process when she raised complaints. She talks about there being factual evidence of this, 
but didnt provide any other detail. 
Ive listened to quite a number of calls between RBS and Ms S and I can see she often 
asked them not to raise a complaint and, instead,  deal with her concerns as an informal  
enquiry. And she became frustrated when the bank insisted that, what  she felt were, 
Ref: DRN22086514enquiries must be escalated to their complaints/care team. Ms S indicated she preferred for 
most mattes to be dealt with by the banks frontline call-centre. 
Its for the bank to decide how it deals with enquiries  that cant  be solved by frontline  staff. 
And Ive not heard  or seen anything which makes  me think RBS failed to progress  
complaints that Ms S has made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2208651