K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about six short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr B between  April and 
November 2017.  Mr Bs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment 
Amount
1 22/04/2017 07/09/2017 6 £150.00   £40.00
2 11/05/2017 07/09/2017 6   £50.00   £72.00
3 03/06/2017 27/07/2017 6 £500.00 £229.00
4 06/06/2017 27/07/2017 6 £250.00 £306.00
5 27/07/2017 07/09/2017 6 £800.00 £327.00
6 02/11/2017 23/11/2017 6 £950.00 £303.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint.  He thought the loans  from loan four  
onwards shouldnt have been  given. He recommended redress  be paid and alterations  be 
made to Mr Bs credit  file  any adverse information should be removed  for loans four and 
five, and all information  about loan six should be removed  from his credit file. 
Sunny disagreed but did offer to uphold the complaint at loan six. We passed  this onto Mr B 
but didn't receive any response.
Another of our adjudicators reconsidered  the complaint before it was passed to me. He 
agreed that loans  four to six shouldnt  have been  given but didn't think Mr Bs credit  file 
should be amended to the extent recommended by the previous adjudicator. He thought only 
adverse information  should be removed from Mr Bs credit file and not all information  for loan 
six. 
Neither party commented on this.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
Ref: DRN24763672consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr B didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So I wont  be making a decision  about this lending.  But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr B had with Sunny.  So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan four would  most  likely have 
shown that Mr B:
was having  problems managing his money. I say this because he had taken three  
instalment loans in three months  which were still outstanding when loan four was 
taken  and loan four was to be his second  loan in June 2017. His combined monthly 
repayment had increased in two months from £40 at loan one to £229 at loan three  
and was to increase  further at loan four to £306.
Ref: DRN24763673Loans one, two and five were  all repaid early,  and on the same day, 7 September 
2017. While I appreciate early repayment  of a loan can save  interest, it can equally 
be an indication that Mr B may not have been managing his money and was 
borrowing elsewhere to repay his loans with Sunny. Thereby incurring further costs.
The amount  Mr B borrowed did fluctuate but significantly increased at loans five and 
six  for £800 and £950. And I note loans three and four were repaid early on the 
same day that loan five was taken. As I have said, loan five was for a larger  amount 
which would suggest Mr B was borrowing further  from Sunny to repay earlier  loans 
he had previously taken with Sunny. 
So, like the adjudicators, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four to six and Sunny 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do  Ive included loan six for 
completeness 
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans four to six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four to six from Mr Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2476367