K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr M says Canada Square  Operations Limited (then Egg) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think Egg made it clear  that Mr M didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. The online application form 
he completed for the credit card included  a section about PPI where  he had to answer 
yes or no when  asked  if he wanted  it. If he hadnt been interested in the cover, he 
could have said no.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him. 
The information Egg gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
the online application form did explain the PPI provided cover  for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. It also set out that it would cost 59p in every £100 of Mr Ms outstanding 
balance every month. So it seems Mr M would have  known the type of cover  he would 
get and had an idea about how much it would cost.  And he chose to take out the PPI 
based on this information - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover  and was happy to 
pay for it.
Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  So I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2131781