K820x#14the complaint
Mr T says TSB Bank plcs IT problems in April 2018  had an impact on him.  
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr T complained  to TSB that the 
problems meant he hadnt  been  able to access his account online or make  payments. As a 
result, he said hed missed out on investment opportunities and asked TSB to cover  the 
£1500 he said he had lost due to this. Mr T was also very unhappy with the way TSB had 
dealt with his complaint  and communicated with him.
After looking into Mr Ts complaint TSB agreed that its IT issues likely had an impact  on 
Mr Ts account,  and that this would have caused  stress and inconvenience to Mr T. TSB 
apologised for the problems  Mr T had had, and in total paid him £825 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused, and £150  for costs he may have incurred in trying to resolve things.  
But TSB didnt feel that Mr T had provided  enough proof to show that hed lost out on £1500 
due to not being able to invest his money.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  TSBs payment of £975  in total was fair 
for the issues Mr T had raised. He didnt  think TSB should pay another  £1500 to Mr T, 
because he hadnt  provided any evidence of that loss. 
Mr T isnt happy with this outcome; he feels we should be telling him what  evidence he 
needs to provide to prove his loss.
As Mr Ts complaint with TSB couldnt  be settled informally,  its been  referred  to me for a 
final decision.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I wont be asking TSB to make any further payments to Mr T. I know  that 
wont be the outcome  he wants, but Ill explain why Ive come to that decision.
I dont doubt that Mr T had problems with accessing  his account following TSBs  IT issues.  
And I know that will have been frustrating for him, particularly if he was intending to make 
payments for bills, to other people or for investments. But with the information I have, I dont 
think there is enough evidence to show that Mr T has lost the amount he is claiming.
Mr T hasnt  given  us much information about  the potential  investments he was going to 
make other than that one was a stocks  and shares ISA and one was possibly a bond. We 
dont know how much he was intending to invest, how long he was intending to invest  for, or 
the likely  return on any investment.
I also note that the emails  Mr T has provided  as evidence of his intention to invest  contain 
very little information about the products he says he was intending  to invest in or his 
concrete plans for investing. Indeed, one of those  emails  simply  states that he may decide  
soon on investing  in the bond, I dont  consider  this to be adequate proof that Mr T has 
suffered a definitive  loss.
Ref: DRN26122342I know Mr T thinks we should tell him the specific documents we want to see from him, but 
we dont know what correspondence he has had with the investment company or what  
evidence he may have available. If he is claiming  that he has lost out on such  a significant 
sum, then I would expect  him to be able to explain to us how he has reached  that figure, but 
Ive seen nothing  to support what he has said.
Its clear Mr T feels strongly about his complaint, but after taking everything into account, I 
cant reasonably  direct  TSB to pay Mr T £1500 when theres no direct  or indirect evidence to 
support that amount of loss. With this in mind,  I think the £975 TSB has already paid Mr T is 
fair compensation for the problems he experienced and the impact they had.  
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has already paid Mr T a fair amount to resolve his 
complaint. So I make  no further order or award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2612234