K820x#14complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain  about Santander  UK Plc (Santander) regarding unauthorised  
overdraft fees. Mr P feels that the business  should have informed him that his mother  had 
fallen into a cycle  of incurring unauthorised overdraft charges.  They want Santander  to 
refund the unauthorised overdraft charges which were accumulated  over nearly  10 months. 
background
Mrs P held an account with Santander  for some  years. 
In late 2012 Mrs Ps son, Mr P, applied to be added  to her account as a joint account  holder. 
This was because they wanted Mr P to be able to access funds in the account  in the case of 
an emergency. 
This application was granted and Mr P was added to the account.  
In mid 2017,  Mrs P went  into an unauthorised  overdraft, causing her to incur charges.  
These charges  were deducted during the following  month,  causing  her again to go into an 
unauthorised overdraft and incur  further charges. 
This continued to happen each month until March 2018, when Mr P became aware  of the 
charges. He then took action to re-order the account and no further charges were incurred. 
Santander and Mr P updated the notification details for the account so Mr P would receive  
text alerts after this.  
Santander waived  the charges for March and, as a goodwill gesture, refunded  the charges 
that related to February.  
Mr P complained to Santander. He said that he felt that the bank  had failed in its duty of care 
to his mother, as she attended her bank regularly and had not been made aware  by branch 
staff of the charging cycle. He thought that the bank staff could have discussed her account 
with her and prompted  her to address it. He also felt that the bank had failed in its duty to 
him, as he had not been directly contacted, despite being a joint account  holder. 
Santander issued  its final response letter to Mr P in March 2018. This did not uphold the 
complaint and said that because a goodwill gesture had been issued to Mr P already it was 
unable to offer any further gesture. The letter said that it had now added  notes to the 
account that Mrs P was vulnerable, so as to alert branch staff to devote more  time to Mrs P 
in future. 
Mrs and Mr P were  not happy  with that response and contacted  us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that there was evidence that Santander had sent out statements  showing the account  
activity and charges,  and these were addressed to both Mrs and Mr P at the address they 
shared. He therefore thought that the business had acted reasonably  and he did not 
recommend that the business do anything else in relation to the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr P were  not happy  with that view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
Ref: DRN26745992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I very much understand why Mrs and Mr P are upset, and can appreciate  that the charges 
incurred were significant, especially when compared  to the small amounts by which the 
account went overdrawn. I also understand Mr Ps upset that, despite being added  to the 
account in order  to help safeguard Mrs Ps interests,  he had not been prompted to intervene 
when Mrs P fell into this negative cycle.  
I note that when Mr P contacted Santander  in March 2018  he advised them that his mother 
was vulnerable. This does not appear to have been  reported on the account before this.
I appreciate that Mr P was added to the account  in case of emergencies, but that was in 
2012 and notes are not available of what Santander was told at the time regarding  
vulnerability. Mr P does not appear to have had cause to access the account regularly since  
that time and on that basis I think it unlikely that Mrs and Mr P considered Mrs P particularly 
vulnerable in 2012 or for some time afterwards. 
Santander has provided evidence of its terms which permit it to apply  charges  for 
unauthorised overdraft use. These  show that the charges were  applied in line with the 
account terms. It has also provided  evidence of statements  that were sent to both Mrs and 
Mr P, during  the period,  at the address they shared. These statements detailed  the account 
activity, showed  that the account  had gone  overdrawn  and gave pre-notification of charges  
to be deducted  the following month.  
Mr P has said that he feels that he should have been notified  of the charging separately,  and 
that it is not sufficient  to only mention  this sort of cycle  within  normal  statements. 
I am afraid I do not agree.  It is customers responsibility to ensure that they keep within  their 
account limits and to monitor their balance regularly. Sufficient  information was included  in 
the statements  to enable Mrs and Mr P to address  the negative cycle  and I think  that 
Santander acted  reasonably in only sending one copy of the statements to the shared 
address. 
Santander has also provided evidence that Mr P contacted Santander  in 2016 and queried 
some account charges,  which  were refunded at that time. I therefore  think  that Mr P was 
aware from that point  onwards that charges may be incurred on the account if it exceeded its 
limits, and that there was a need to check the balance regularly. 
So whilst I sympathise  with Mrs and Mr P over the level of charges that were  incurred,  I think 
it was Mrs and Mr Ps responsibility to monitor the account balance regularly to ensure  that 
charges were not continually incurred. 
As a result, whilst I understand this will be disappointing to Mrs and Mr P, I agree with the 
adjudicators view and do not uphold the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Santander UK 
Plc to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN26745993Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2674599