K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have rejected a claim hes made  under 
section 75 of the Consumer credit  Act (1974) (s75).
background
In December 2016 Mr A took receipt of a new vehicle. He paid £500 deposit  using his 
Santander credit card.  But he quickly became  disillusioned with the vehicle as he found the 
diesel particulate  filter (DPF) got blocked; needed  long runs to regenerate it and led to a 
breakdown when the DPF pressure sensor needed  replacing and the DPF required  a forced 
regeneration.
He made  a s75 claim to Santander as he said the Consumer Credit Act held them  jointly 
responsible as they had provided some  of the credit. He said the car had clearly been 
misrepresented to him as the sales agent should  have explained what a DPF was and that it 
wouldnt regenerate itself on short  rides  and he hadnt explained about CO2 emissions  
either. He said it shouldve been  clear  to the dealership that these things were important to 
him as he was a driving instructor and wouldnt be completing longer trips.
But Santander didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. They said the car hadnt been sold with any 
fault and information about the DPF was available  on-line  for him to read. So Mr A referred 
his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  took a look at the evidence. 
The adjudicator didnt think this was a case of misrepresentation. He explained that DPFs 
had been fitted as standard  to diesel cars in this country for the last eight years and he didnt 
think it was incumbent on the dealership to go through  every  feature of the car with the 
consumer and point  out the strengths and weaknesses.  He thought it was reasonable to 
suggest the consumer had the responsibility to research the vehicle they were  looking to 
finance. He went  on to consider whether the breakdown that occurred demonstrated that the 
car was faulty when  Mr A took receipt  of it. But he didnt think  this was the case because  it 
was clear the fault had been  caused  when the DPF hadnt regenerated  itself when runs were  
too short for that to happen.  So he didnt think Santander were wrong to reject Mr As s75 
claim.
But Mr A disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A but I agree with the adjudicators  view and for similar  reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN27613512When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section 
of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,  a finance provider can 
be responsible  for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation  made by the supplier. 
Here Mr A says that there was a misrepresentation. He says the business should  have taken  
extra steps to explain to him how a DPF works  and that if they had he wouldnt have 
proceeded with the deal.
But Im not satisfied that the dealership had to explain  the functioning of the DPF filter to 
Mr A. Whilst I understand this is the first time hes had a car with such  technology,  its not 
new technology that the dealership could expect  their customer  to be unaware of and I think 
it would  be unreasonable to put the onus on them to explain that feature to Mr A to help him 
form a view on which car to buy. 
There is information available on the internet that explains the feature and I think its fair to 
expect Mr A to have done his research on the vehicle  and to have formed his own opinion,  
as only he would know the full extent of the driving  he was going to complete.
So I dont  think Santander were wrong to reject Mr As s75 complaint and I wont be asking 
them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2761351