K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs I has complained about  National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  changing 
them to a Select Platinum account without their knowledge or consent  in 2015. 
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr and Mrs Is complaint didnt  think that NatWest had done 
anything significantly wrong. Mr and Mrs I disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to look at 
their complaint and make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that NatWest did anything 
significantly wrong here. Id like to explain why I think this is the case  in a little more detail.
I should start by saying  that NatWest didnt  sell Mr and Mrs I a further packaged account in        
June 2015. It chose to withdraw the Advantage Gold account  at this stage. And as it was 
entitled to do this, I cant say that NatWest did anything wrong when it withdrew the 
Advantage Gold account or that it had to continue providing it to Mr and Mrs I. 
When NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold account it moved all of its customers that had 
this account on to the Select Platinum one. This was because  the benefits  on the Select 
Platinum account  most  closely matched the ones that were  on the Advantage Gold  one. 
I think that its likely NatWest sent a letter to Mr and Mrs I which  explained that their account  
was being changed to a Select Platinum one as the Advantage Gold account was being 
discontinued. This letter  wouldve been sent to the address it held for Mr and Mrs I at the 
time. I accept that Mr and Mrs I might  not have read it, perhaps because they didnt 
appreciate its significance at the time,  but that doesnt mean that they werent notified of the 
upcoming change.  
In any event, even  if I were to reach the conclusion Mr and Mrs I wasnt  sent a letter  
explaining the upcoming changes (I should  make  it clear that Im not making this finding  
here), I still need to think about whether they wouldve done anything differently  if they had 
been provided with this information. 
Im mindful that Mr and Mrs I were  sent a letter in June  2015, which  Ive seen a copy of, that 
they had a fee paying packaged bank  account. And I havent seen anything to suggest that 
they requested  a switch to a free account,  or queried why they were still being  charged a 
packaged account fee, prior to making this complaint  either. So, in these circumstances, I 
dont think that NatWest unfairly charged  Mr and Mrs I the fee for the Select Platinum 
account, or that it did anything significantly wrong here.   
Overall I dont think that Mr and Mrs I lost out because of anything  NatWest did significantly 
wrong in relation to the switch to the Select  Platinum account  or that it unfairly charged      
Mr and Mrs I. So Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
Ref: DRN23034142my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2303414