K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading as Lloyds) mis-sold him a term-assurance 
policy. Mr G is represented in his complaint  by his wife, Mrs G. 
background
Around June 2005, Lloyds  sold Mr G a level-term  assurance policy with a sum assured of 
£170,000 and a 20-year  term.  Mr G decided to cancel  his policy  in 2008. 
In 2019, Mrs G complained to Lloyds that the policy it sold her husband was unsuitable for 
his needs. She said the policy was unaffordable and her husband wasnt  earning  the salary  
recorded on his application. Mrs G said her husband was mentally  unstable  and unable to 
make rational decisions at the time the policy was sold, and Mr G met with his psychiatrist 
the same  day he met Lloyds advisers. The psychiatrist recorded that Mr G felt he had poor 
concentration and memory, but said there was no objective memory loss or loss of 
concentration. The psychiatrist said Mr G appeared to have an anxiety disorder with low 
mood. Mrs G said Lloyds knew of her husbands  health problems. She added  her husband 
felt very pressured by Lloyds advisers, who came  to their home. 
Lloyds told Mr and Mrs G they met one of its advisers on two occasions  in late June 2005,  
and its records indicated  the meetings were held in branch. At the time, they had an 
outstanding interest-only mortgage  of £170,000 with a 20-year term, and Mr G wanted  to 
take out cover to repay  the mortgage if he suffered a critical illness. 
Lloyds said Mr G didnt disclose his mental health problems on his application form. As part 
of its decision to offer Mr G cover, Lloyds wrote  to Mr Gs GP. Lloyds said it received a report 
from the GP in July 2005, which showed  the GP wasnt aware of Mr Gs recent meeting with 
his psychiatrist. Its underwriters decided to offer Mr G the policy  based on the information 
provided on his application form and by his GP. Lloyds  added that whilst Mr G says he met 
with his psychiatrist the same day he met with its advisers, Lloyds sent Mr G a copy of his 
application form a month  later, in August 2005. Lloyds asked him to read through the 
answers he gave and let it know if anything had changed, but Mr G didnt respond.  
Lloyds said Mrs G was present at the meetings and decided not to accept its 
recommendation that she take out critical illness cover. It said it would reasonably have 
expected Mrs G to raise objections at the time if she felt her husband was mentally unstable,  
unable to make rational  decisions or was unable  to afford the policy.
Lloyds went on to say Mr G had a need for critical illness  cover  and the policy it sold was 
suitable for Mr Fs circumstances. It said Mr G had time to reflect on the policy application  
before deciding to proceed with the policy, and he could have cancelled the policy within  
30 days of taking it out if he decided he didnt want it. Lloyds noted Mr G paid his policy  
premiums from August 2005  until he cancelled it in February 2008. It said if Mr G felt the 
policy was unsuitable  or unaffordable, it would have been reasonable for him to raise any 
concerns at this point.  
Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Mrs G referred  her husbands complaint to our service.  One 
of our investigators reviewed this complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt think  it 
was likely Lloyds pressured  Mr G into taking  out his policy, or that there was sufficient 
evidence to show Mr G lacked capacity  to make his own decision about  the policy Lloyds 
recommended. The investigator noted  Mr Gs psychiatrist said Mr G felt unable  to take on 
Ref: DRN27770482financial responsibilities  but the psychiatrist didnt say Mr G lacked the capacity to make 
his own financial decisions. The investigator didnt think  it was likely the policy  was 
unaffordable  Mr G confirmed he could afford  the policy and paid the premiums until he 
cancelled the policy. Our investigator said Mr G didnt have any other  critical illness cover 
and his mortgage was on an interest-only basis. As the policy  would have paid off the 
mortgage, the investigator didnt think there  was anything to suggest  the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr Gs needs at the time.
Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators  opinion, so this case has come to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. I realise this will disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but Ill explain my 
reasons.
I dont think theres enough evidence to persuade  me that Mr G was pressured into taking 
out his policy.  Mr G and Mrs G were recommended more than one policy, but chose to go 
ahead with Mr Gs policy only. I think this demonstrates they were aware that the policies 
were optional and not compulsory. Further, I think there was ample time between  the first 
meeting with Lloyds  and the policy being set up for Mr G to change his mind, and Mr G 
signed to confirm he was made aware  he had 30 days after the policy commenced to cancel 
it and receive a full refund  of premiums.  For these reasons, I cannot reasonably conclude 
that Lloyds pressured Mr G into taking out his policy.
Mrs G has said Lloyds was aware  of her husbands health problems at the time the policy 
was taken out. On Mr Gs application form, he was asked  if he has, or ever had, a mental  
illness that has required hospital treatment or referral to a psychiatrist. He was also asked if, 
in the last five years,  he had any kind of medical attention for depression,  stress, anxiety, 
nervous breakdown or chronic fatigue. Both questions were answered  no. And in 
August 2005,  Lloyds  wrote to Mr G asking him to check the information recorded  on the 
application form was correct and inform it of any changes. As Lloyds didnt receive a 
response from Mr G, I think  it was entitled to assess his application on the information  it had. 
Lloyds also chose to contact Mr Gs GP, and it says considered the information the GP 
provided before deciding  to offer him the policy. I dont think  Lloyds acted unreasonably in 
relying on the information recorded in the application  and provided  by Mr Gs GP. It was for 
Lloyds to decide whether it was prepared to offer Mr G cover,  and on what  terms. 
I note Mrs Gs comments about  the psychiatrists  2005 letter  but this letter doesnt say 
Mr G lacked the mental capacity to make his own financial  decisions.  Similarly, I dont think  
the letter shows Lloyds  should have been aware Mr G lacked capacity to make his own 
financial decisions. So, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint on this basis.
Mrs G complained the policy was unaffordable, as her husband didnt earn the salary noted  
on the application and Lloyds knew of their financial difficulties. Lloyds said Mr G signed a 
declaration confirming he understood the risks and characteristics of the policy, and that he 
could afford  it. Ive not seen  evidence that Lloyds was made aware  Mr G couldnt afford the 
policy at the time it was sold.  It also seems to me he was able to afford it at the time as he 
paid the premiums until he cancelled his policy.
Ref: DRN27770483Mrs G complains the policy  Lloyds sold was unsuitable for her husband. The policy offered 
Mr G £170,000 cover if he suffered a critical illness, which would have repaid the 
outstanding balance of his interest-only  mortgage. It doesnt appear that Mr G had other  
income or cover that would have paid out if Mr G was diagnosed  with a critical illness.  I 
dont, therefore,  think the evidence suggests the policy  was unsuitable  for Mr Gs needs  at 
the time.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G, on behalf 
of Mr G, to accept or reject  my decision before 27 March  2020.
Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2777048