K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax  - mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Mr B complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. 
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Bank of Scotland made it clear on the credit card application form that Mr B 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this.
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he has said about not being told 
anything about  PPI or that it was being  added to his credit account. But these points dont  
change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr B paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mr B back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
If it has not done so already, Bank of Scotland will make  arrangements to pay Mr B now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN23851432my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2385143