K821x#15complaint
Mr F has said that Commercial Land and Property  Brokers (CL&P), an unregulated 
introducer, advised him to transfer his personal  and final salary pensions  to a SIPP and then 
make an investment in high risk, speculative investments   Store First and GAS Verdant 
Australian Farmland (GAS). He thinks this advice was unsuitable.
Mr F believes that if Options SIPP UK LLP had carried out adequate due diligence  on CL&P,  
it would  not have accepted the investment instruction. This is because  Options SIPP  UK LLP 
should have been aware of the warning on the Financial Services  Authority (FSA)  website 
about Mr Terence Wright, who was a director of CL&P.
background 
Mr F was referred to Carey (now known as Options  SIPP UK LLP) by an unregulated 
introducer - CL&P.  In March 2012 he set up a SIPP with Carey.  The application form 
recorded that he intended to transfer  a final salary  pension and a personal  pension to the 
SIPP. It was also recorded  that he intended  to invest in commercial property (Store First).  
The transfer values  of his pensions were  received  in the SIPP  between  May and November 
2012. The GAS  investment  was made  on or around 17 July 2012. The StoreFirst investment 
was made  in January 2013. Mr F signed  member declarations  which confirmed that the 
investments were speculative/high  risk. The investments failed and this prompted  Mr F to 
complain.    
Carey
Carey is a SIPP provider  and administrator, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Carey is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring  about) deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal,  establish, operate  or wind up a pension 
scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions  in investments. It has recently 
changed its name to Options SIPP  UK LLP, but Ill refer to it as Carey throughout this 
decision, as that was its name at the time of the events in question. 
CL&P
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. Mr F says he was cold-called by CL&P 
and persuaded  to transfer his pension to a Carey SIPP  and invest in storage pods and GAS. 
One of the directors  of CL&P was a Mr Terence Wright. On 15 October  2010, the following 
was published  on the Financial Services Authority  (FSA), website:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA)  has today published this statement in order  to warn  
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms. 
The purpose of this statement is to advise members  of the public that an individual 
Terence  (Terry)  Wright
is not authorised  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things,  advising  on 
investments. The FSA believes that the individual  may be targeting UK customers via the 
Ref: DRN24624562firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service  and the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
the relationship  between CL&P and Carey 
Carey was approached  by CL&P in 2011  and entered into discussions about  accepting 
introductions from it. Carey says it carried out some due diligence on CL&P  at this time. It 
says it reviewed CL&P's profile,  conducted  searches,  reviewed CL&Ps  website and 
literature and had conversations  with CL&Ps representatives over the telephone. 
Carey began to accept introductions from CL&P on 15 August 2011.
A non-regulated introducer profile  was completed by CL&P  on 29 September 2011.  It was 
signed by a Terence Wright, and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm, and was trading from a Spanish address.
It used an 0845  telephone number.
It had been  trading  for two years.
It had two directors  Terence Wright and Lesley Wright.
It had eight agents and promoted four investments  Store First, Verdant  Australian 
Farmland, and two other  unregulated investments.
It worked with four other  SIPP operators. 
Its source of business was, referrals  and web enquiries. 
Its sales process involved  a call and follow up emails.
It took 2-5% commission, and this was the source of its earnings. 
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various  compliance officers. 
Carey had a conference call with representatives  of CL&P  on 9 December 2011. During that 
call the issue of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P  to transfer to a SIPP and 
make investments was raised, and also concerns about final salary scheme transfers. The 
note of the call included the following: 
Concern was raised at a recent AMPS [Association of Member-Directed Pension Schemes] 
conference regarding Final Salary Transfers to SIPPs, the need for clients to take advice, 
the fact that ordinarily you would not expect more than 5% of FSTVs to be execution  only 
and these would only be relevant for suitably qualified individuals such as IFAs, Brokers, 
Investment Professionals. [Carey staff member] explained the matters raised at the 
conference. Discussed with CLP because some 30% of the business received into Careys 
from them is in relation to FS transfers which previously have been  processed with member  
declarations. All agreed that in future  cases of FS Transfers would be referred  to suitably 
qualified IFAs for relevant  advice and copy of that advice would be provided  to Careys for file 
records. 
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member  had asked when they 
would receive their money from their Store  First Investment,  [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected  parties  referred by CL&P  receive any form of 
Ref: DRN24624563inducement for either establishing  the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include  offering  inducements.
[Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely  against  all rules that clients  or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular  investments .
An agreement between Carey and CL&P was signed in March  2012. This was back-dated to 
August 2011.  Carey  says this was done to cover  all the investments that had been  
introduced to it by CL&P.  
Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P on 25 May 2012. It says the basis  for this was 
Carey again becoming  aware that CL&P was offering consumers cash  incentives for 
transferring to a Carey  SIPP  and making  investments.  It says this came to light when 
consumers contacted it to ask when the money  would be paid.
Store First
The storage  pod  Store First - investment into which Mr F invested  took the form of one or 
more self storage  units, which were part of a larger storage facility  in a UK location. Investors 
bought one or more units in the facility, and were offered  a guaranteed level of income for a 
set period of time. After  that, they could  either  take whatever income the unit(s) provided, or 
sell them (assuming there was a market for them). 
Store First was the subject of a winding up petition issued by the Business Secretary in 
2017. Action relating to that is ongoing, and investors have  recently been offered the 
opportunity to transfer their investment to a newly-created  freehold company,  for nil 
consideration. I understand the investment has no realisable value. 
GAS 
The GAS  investment took the form of a land purchase contract which involved a company 
based in Cyprus (GAS Global Agricultural Services Ltd) leasing plots  of agricultural land in 
Australia to investors. Crops were  to be planted on the plots, and the objective was to 
provide an income  to investors through the sale of those crops  and capital  growth through  
the sale of the plot of land after eight years. 
Mr Fs dealings  with CL&P and Carey
In March 2012 Carey  received a letter from Mr F confirming that it should  liaise  with CL&P  
regarding his pension  arrangements. At the same time, Carey  also received the signed SIPP 
application form, detailing  the choice of Store First investment. Mr F signed a Carey GAS
Member Declaration on 6 May 2012 which instructed Carey to invest  GAS units. This 
document set out:
I, [Mr F] being the member of the above Scheme instruct Carey  Pension Trustees UK Ltd to 
Purchase 8 UNITS  of Farmland  in GAS  Verdant Australian Farmland Investment for a 
consideration of £40,000, on my behalf  for the above Scheme.
I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is High Risk 
and / or Speculative.  
Ref: DRN24624564As a Member of the Pension Scheme, I confirm that neither I nor any person connected to 
me is receiving a monetary or other inducement  for transacting this investment.
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions  UK LLP and Carey  Pension Trustees  UK Ltd act 
on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither Carey  Pensions UK LLP nor Carey 
Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this 
investment.
I confirm that have taken  my own advice, including financial, investment and tax advice, in 
respect of this investment. 
I do not hold Carey Pensions  UK LLP or Carey  pension  Trustees  UK Ltd responsible for any 
exchange rate fluctuations that may adversely affect  the value of this investment.
I confirm that I will appoint  a harvest  manager.
Should any aspect of this investment be subject to a tax change within the pension scheme 
any such charges will be paid directly  from the fund or by me as a member of the Scheme.
I agree  to provide Carey  Pension Trustees UK Ltd with any further  information  and/or 
documentation they may require prior to completing the purchase of this investment.
I also understand and agree that, in the event  of my demise, if Carey Pension  Trustees  UK 
Ltd is unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales that it may be transferred to my 
beneficiaries through my estate  and accordingly may be subject  to any Inheritance Tax.
I indemnify both Carey  Pensions UK LLP and Carey  Pension Trustees Ltd against  any and 
all liability  arising from this investment.
I agree  the fee of 1% (up to a maximum of £500) of the purchase price being  £150 for 
transacting this investment.
Mr F also completed a Store First Member Instruction:
I (Mr F), the SIPP  Member, Beneficiary,  as described above  instruct  Carey Pension  
Trustees UK Ltd to purchase a Leasehold  Storage Unit Investment with Storefirst  as 
undernoted, on my behalf for the above Scheme.
Number of Storage  Units to be purchased.. 1.. at a cost of £15,000 per unit.
Total cost purchase  cost of Investment £15,000.
I have chosen  the Guaranteed Income  Option.
Or
I have chosen  the Variable Income  Option.
(delete as appropriate)
! attach a copy of my Storefirst Reservation  form.
I confirm that:
Ref: DRN246245651. I understand  that Carey Pensions  UK LLP as the Administrator  and Carey  Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd as the Trustee of the Scheme act on an Execution Only Basis upon my 
instruction.
2. Neither Carey Pensions  UK LLP nor Carey  Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any 
advice, whatsoever,  in respect of the SIPP or this investment, including but not limited to 
financial, investment,  tax advice,
3. No information provided to me by either  Carey  Pensions UK LLP or Carey  Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd will or is considered  by me as advice or recommendation.
4. I understand  this investment is an Unregulated "Alternative Investment'  and as such  is 
considered High Risk and Speculative and that it may prove difficult to value, sell / realise.
5. I understand  that as an Unregulated Investment the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme will not apply.
6. I fully understand that the values of investments can fall as well as rise and that my entire 
investment may be lost.
7. I have reviewed and understand the information and documentation provided by Storefirst  
including but not limited  to marketing materials, Reservation Form, Contracts.
8. I acknowledge  and confirm my understanding that if a valuation is required,  for any 
reason, this may be Will entail a valuation of Use unit(s)  that may be difficult  to obtain and 
that the costs  of for any valuation  will need  to be met by my scheme.
9. I have taken my own advice, including but not limited  to, financial, investment and tax 
advice regarding the investment and its value, taxes, costs and fees.
10- In the event of my demise, if Carey Pension  Trustees UK Ltd is unable  to sell the asset 
within HMRC  timescales it may be transferred to my beneficiaries through  my estate and 
accordingly may be subject to Inheritance  or other taxes,
11. Should any aspect  of this investment be deemed by HMRC to provide  Taxable Moveable 
Properly, or be deemed a trading company and / or any other  tax charges be deemed  by 
HMRC to apply in future these will be paid directly from the fund or by me as the Member of 
the Scheme.
12. In the event that any local or other  taxes become due these will be paid by my SIPP,
13. I undertake  to forego the right to personal  usage  and that any breach of this undertaking 
will result in HMRC  levying tax charge penalties on both me personally and my SIPP.
15. I fully understand that this Investment is reliant upon Storefirst being able to rent out the 
unit(s).
16. I confirm that my business / occupation  is not renting  out storage units,
17. I instruct Carey Pensions to appoint the following  solicitor  to act on behalf of the 
Scheme:
Ref: DRN24624566(solicitors details)
18. I confirm that I agree  to (solicitors) fee of £400  + VAT for transacting this investment,
19. I confirm I am fully aware that additional costs  will be incurred  in this transaction 
including, but not limited  to:
£48 CHAPS Fee;
£8 Land Registry Search Fee;
Stamp Duty Land Tax-To be advised  by Solicitor at completion;
Any other taxes - To be advised by Solicitor at completion;
20. I understand my SIPP must have sufficient funds at outset to complete  the purchase and 
confirm that if, for any reason, the purchase does  not complete  that my Scheme and /or me 
as the Member will be liable to pay any accrued fees.
In this decision I will refer to these  documents as the indemnities.  
Carey set up Mr Fs SIPP and then between April and September  2012 Carey administered  
the transfer of Mr Fs personal pension to the Carey SIPP. The final salary scheme was 
transferred in November  2012. As discussed, Mr F instructed Carey to invest into Storage  
units and GAS. This took place in January 2013  and May 2012  respectively.
Careys position  
Carey considered Mr Fs complaint but did not uphold it. 
In its submissions to us Carey said, in summary:   
It does not (and is not permitted to) provide any advice  to clients  in relation to the 
establishment of a SIPP, transfers  in or the underlying investments, nor does it 
comment in any way on the suitability of a SIPP, the transfers in and investments for 
an individuals circumstances. It did not advise, nor purport  to advise,  Mr F, and Mr F 
confirmed his understanding that Carey could  not advise him and confirmed his 
understanding that the investment was high risk and speculative..
It cannot provide  any advice and acted on an execution only (i.e. non-advised)  basis.   
Sections of the application form Mr F completed  and its SIPP terms and conditions 
highlighted that Carey had no involvement  in Mr Fs decision  to transfer, the choice of 
investment or the suitability of such. 
It acted on Mr Fs instructions to establish  the SIPP, request the transfers  in, and 
specifically to make the investments  on his behalf into Store First and GAS  in the 
amounts instructed by him.
It carried out an internal investment review and due diligence  on Store First and GAS  
and concluded  that these  investments  were  suitable to be held within  a UK pension 
scheme. There was no reason not to accept  these investments in the SIPP.
It undertook due diligence on CL&P and this due diligence did not reveal  any reason 
Ref: DRN24624567for which Carey should not accept introductions from CL&P  at the time of Mr Fs 
investment. There was no reason not to receive  customers from unregulated 
introducers. 
Mr F did not inform Carey about  the cash incentive he had received. If he had done 
so then Carey would not have accepted  his investment instructions. 
Mr Fs complaint was looked at by an investigator. It was his view that the complaint should  
be upheld.  In summary he said:  
Carey undertook some due diligence on CL&P. However, this was not properly 
carried out at the outset. And if this had been  done, he felt Carey should have 
concluded that it shouldnt accept business from CL&P.
Carey did not carry out proper  background checks  on the directors  of CL&P.  If it had 
it would  have established that one of the directors (Terrence Wright) was on the 
FSAs warning list of individuals.
There was a warning  notice, first published  in 2010, on the FSA website that set out 
that Mr Wright was a person to be wary  of dealing with.  
Despite requests, CL&P didnt provide copies of either its accounts  or identity 
documents for its directors.
Carey should have been concerned that the non-regulated introducer agreement  was 
not signed by the CL&P  directors. 
Carey had been told by a number of consumers that CL&P  had been offering cash  
back incentives and it was aware  of this before Mr Fs pensions were  transferred and 
the investments  made.  CL&Ps involvement  in the payment  of illegal  payments  
should have raised  concerns about its integrity. 
Mr F signed  Member Declarations  which contained warnings  about  the investments  
to be made and sought to confirm that Mr F would  not hold Carey liable for any 
liability. But Carey shouldnt have  accepted  the business in the first place and so he 
should never have  got to the point of having to sign the declaration.  
If Carey had acted as it should  have done it would not have carried out the 
investment instructions.  
He also set out how Mr F should be compensated.  
Carey did not agree  with the investigator.   I have considered its submissions in full but, in 
summary, it said:
It was unable to respond fully until the investigator provided more  detailed 
explanations of his conclusions.
The investigator had not made a fair and reasonable decision.
Ref: DRN24624568The FSA warning in 2010 did not have the content the investigator had suggested. 
The investigator had referred to the amended wording, not that published  originally in 
2010. 
As to the warning  published in 2010,  there  is a material difference between a warning 
that an individual is not authorised and a warning not to do business with a certain  
individual.  The notice  only said that Mr Wright was not authorised   a fact that all 
parties were well aware of. There was no warning  from the FSA in 2010 that the 
CL&P individual was someone to avoid and the FSA did not have concerns of that 
nature. 
Carey acted for Mr F on a strict execution only, non-advised  basis. Carey does not 
provide advice as to the suitability of investments or any other aspect of a customers  
SIPP. It states all customers should seek advice from a suitably qualified adviser.
COBS 11.2.19, which deals with execution  only business, and was in force  at the 
relevant time, stated  as follows:
"Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute  the 
order following the specific instruction.
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps  to obtain 
the best possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an order, or a 
specific aspect of an order, following specific instructions  from the client relating to 
the order or the specific aspect of the order."
The significance of this rule to an execution only business, such  as Carey, cannot  be 
overstated. Carey  would  have  been in breach  of COBS if it had not executed  Mr F's 
specific instructions to make the investment. Carey had no option other than to 
execute Mr Fs instructions.
The relevant  considerations  quoted  by the investigator include announcements  made 
by the FSA/FCA after Mr F transferred  his pension and made the Store First 
investment.  It does not agree  that the FCAs expectations did not change  over time. 
It is its opinion that they have changed  over time. The complaint should not be 
considered with the benefit of hindsight or in the context of guidance or warnings 
published after the event. In any event  the FCA/FSA  publications  are guidance only 
and do not set out steps that Carey has to take.  There is no specific  regulation or 
legal basis to find Carey  liable.  
Mr F received an inducement payment. The impact of this has not been taken fully 
into account. Neither has Mr Fs motivation and financial  position  at the time. 
The investigator has not explained why he considers Mr F is not responsible for any 
of the losses he has suffered.   Carey is not the sole cause (if any) of Mr Fs losses. 
Mr F did not disclose the inducement  payment.  If Carey had been aware of the 
inducement payment  then it would not have accepted the investment.  Given  the likely 
motivation and inducement payment, Mr F would have likely suffered the losses in 
any event. By the time of SIPP application, Mr F had already  decided he wished to 
invest in Store  First.  If Carey had refused his application then Mr F would have made  
the same  investment  via a different SIPP provider. 
Ref: DRN24624569It is not reasonable to suggest  that the individuals who signed the non-regulated 
introducer agreement  has any bearing on whether Carey  should have accepted 
introductions from CL&P. 
Has the ombudsman service considered holding an oral hearing and if not, why?
It is not reasonable to suggest  that the individuals who signed the non-regulated 
introducer agreement  has any bearing on whether Carey  should have accepted 
introductions from CL&P. 
Carey carried  out due diligence on Store First and GAS and provided Mr F with 
Member Declarations which reaffirmed his investment instructions and provided him 
with risk warnings about his chosen investment to enable  him to make  an informed 
decision on whether  to proceed. It was Mr Fs decision to proceed on an execution 
only basis and it made this clear to him. Mr F confirmed that he had read and 
understood all the documentation he had been given and this should be taken into 
account.
There was no reason for Carey to have  refused  to accept business from CL&P. 
The £500 proposed for the upset  caused  has not been justified.
In general correspondence about the group of complaints  to which  Mr Fs complaint belongs 
Carey has also:
Asked that a response be given to each  of its points before a final decision is made. 
Suggested that we hold an oral hearing.
Asked us to put the complaints on hold, pending a judgment in the Adams v Carey  
court case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
some preliminary points
delay deciding this case  until  judgment  in Adams v Carey has been handed down? 
I do not consider  it appropriate to wait for the outcome of Adams  v Carey. That is a different 
case to Mr Fs complaint and Mr F is not party to those proceedings. That being said,  I 
understand the case does involve an investment being made in Store First introduced by 
CL&P. But the case was heard in March  2018 and the judges decision has still not yet been  
handed down  two years  later. As far as I am aware,  there is no publicly available information 
about when the decision is likely to be published. And any judgment,  when eventually  
handed down,  could be subject to appeal.    
The ombudsman service  is required to resolve  the complaints it receives quickly  and with 
minimum formality  (see section 225(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  
(FSMA) and Westcott Financial Services Limited  v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2014] 
Ref: DRN246245610EWHC 3972 Admin).  I must therefore carefully  take this into consideration in deciding 
whether or not I should delay deciding this case until after the outcome in Adams v Carey  
becomes known. And, given the substantial  delay in the judgment being handed down, I 
dont think I should  delay deciding Mr Fs case.   
I am required to determine the complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances taking into account, but not being  bound by, various 
matters including  the law. I may depart from the law if I consider it fair and reasonable to do 
so, as long as I provide sufficient reasons for doing  so. 
Its also relevant here that there has been  judgment  by Jacobs J in relation to a judicial 
review in respect of a final determination  that specifically considered the due diligence  
obligations of SIPP operators: R (Berkeley  Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878). 
Berkeley Burke (BBSAL) had brought a claim for judicial review about a decision of an 
ombudsman which found that BBSAL as SIPP operator had not treated its client fairly or 
reasonably when it accepted an investment into his SIPP. The ombudsman had found that 
the FCA Principles  and good industry  practice at the time meant that the SIPP  operator 
ought to have carried out due diligence before accepting  an investment into the SIPP. 
The judgment of Jacobs J provides a strong endorsement for the approach  taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint. The judgment  also considers section 228 FSMA and the 
approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. I accept that Mr Fs 
complaint is different from the complaint in the BBSAL case, and that each complaint will be 
determined on its own individual merits. However,  the relevant considerations are similar. As 
a result,  in my view, its unnecessary to await the judgment in Adams  v Carey.
I have carefully considered the points made by Carey in support of its request for me not to 
progress this complaint.  In deciding that request Ive weighed  the interests of all the parties, 
and my statutory commitments. Having done  so, I consider it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to put this case on hold while we await the outcome of the separate civil claim.
oral hearing?
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a 
hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite  the parties to take part in a 
hearing.
Carey hasnt requested  a hearing in this complaint  as such,  but Im aware it has suggested 
there should be a hearing because of the significance of the issues and to allow  it to better  
understand the investigators reasoning (in other  cases).  Ive therefore  thought  about this 
carefully and in the specific circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied I can fairly 
determine the matter without  a hearing. In particular, I note:
The Financial Ombudsman  Service was set up as an informal  dispute resolution 
forum and this complaint  falls squarely within the jurisdiction  of the ombudsman  
service.  While I accept  that the complaint is significant to both parties that is very 
often the case  and that point  alone cannot be the test for whether or not an oral 
hearing needs to be convened in order to fairly determine the case.  There  is nothing 
Ref: DRN246245611in the particular circumstances of this case that has persuaded  me that it cannot  be 
fairly determined without a hearing. 
Carey clearly believes the ombudsman service  has misunderstood the applicable law 
and regulation and it has set out its position  clearly  in writing.
Both parties have  been given ample opportunity  to make representations  and set out 
their positions. 
The Court  of Appeal has adopted a very flexible  approach to whats fair in this 
context (R on the application  of Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
After carefully taking account of all the available evidence, Im satisfied I can fairly  determine 
Mr Fs complaint without convening a hearing. 
a provisional decision?  
I note that Carey has asked for us to respond  to specific  points before I make  a final 
decision. DISP  3.5.4R sets out the procedure I must  follow  when determining  a complaint: 
If the Ombudsman decides  that an investigation  is necessary,  he will then:
1.ensure both parties have been given  an opportunity of making representations;
2.send both parties a provisional assessment, setting out his reasons and a time limit 
within which either party  must  respond; and
3.if either party indicates disagreement  with the provisional assessment within  that time 
limit, proceed to determination.
I am satisfied that Mr F and Carey have been  given adequate opportunity  to make 
representations. Mr F and Carey have  also received  a provisional assessment, which set out 
the investigators reasons for reaching  their view (the provisional  assessment). Carey 
disagrees with that decision. 
I am required to give reasons for my decision,  not to give a point by point response to 
everything that has been said by the parties to the complaint. As recognised by the High 
Court in R (Williams) v FOS [2008]  EWHC  2142,  this service is dealing  with complaints, not 
causes of action.  Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial  not adversarial, and we are required to 
resolve complaints  quickly and with the minimum of formality in accordance with section 225 
of FSMA. It would not be consistent  with our powers or remit to do as Carey has asked and 
respond to each and every point it has made  before making a determination. 
So the next step is for me to proceed  to determination. And I am satisfied it is appropriate  for 
me to do that here.
Ive therefore  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
relevant considerations
Ref: DRN246245612In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses  are of particular relevance to my decision on 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The Principles for 
Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook, are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms  under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
clients and treat them fairly.
In R (British  Bankers Association)  v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) 
Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added.  The Principles always have  to be complied  with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them  and cannot  be used to contradict them. They  are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover.  The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment  specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach  a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had 
been produced  by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which  find expression in 
the Principles,  whoever  formulated them. They are of the essence of what  is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
Subsequently Jacobs  J at paragraph  104 in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP  Administration  Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  [2018] EWHC  2878)  having set out some paragraphs of the 
British Banking Association judgment, including  paragraph  162 set out above,  said;
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument,  the role of the Principles is not merely to cater  for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment  in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were  
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based  regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely  not to attempt  to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6. 
So, the Principles  have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN246245613In my view, 2.1.1R in the Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS) is also relevant. It says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests  rule). 
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind  
SIPP operators of their obligations  and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic  review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance.
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter.
The September 2009 thematic review report pre-dates the events subject of this complaint 
and is therefore  particularly relevant. The report included  the following statement:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle  6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are obliged to ensure  the fair 
treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension  scheme  is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the 
responsibility of SIPP  operators to continuously  analyse the individual risks to themselves 
and their clients, with reference  to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves  of any responsibility,  and we would  expect them  to have procedures  and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member  to confirm the position,  or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate  to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious  potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual  cases,  we 
may take enforcement action against  SIPP operators  who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles  for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control  its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made  to firms:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing  to the firms  clients,  and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Ref: DRN246245614Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying  
respective responsibilities,  with intermediaries  introducing SIPP  business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments  recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs  can be identified.
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, together  with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek  
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies  of the suitability  reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible  for advice,  having  this 
information would enhance the firms  understanding of its clients, making  the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility  for their investment decisions, and gathering  and analysing  data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying  instances of clients waiving  their cancellation rights,  and the reasons for 
this.
In the October  2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory  responsibilities that became a requirement  in 
April 2007.
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat clients  fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client  for 
SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP  operators responsibility  
to assess its business  with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise  and introduce prospective members  and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP  operators  include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers  that advise clients  
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate  permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved  persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear  on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business  warnings. 
Ref: DRN246245615Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships  and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing  SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business  objectives  are, the types  of clients  they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being  able to identify  irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments  such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would  enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example  from 
the prospective member  or their adviser,  if it has any concerns. 
Identifying  instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members  advisers are responsible  for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility  for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being  supplied  with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being  used  to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which  govern  relationships  and 
clarify responsibilities  for relationships with other professional bodies  such  as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  operators  
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October  2013 finalised SIPP  operator  guidance  said:
due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their business  
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain  
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate for personal  pension  schemes)  to help 
them justify  their business decisions. In doing  this SIPP  operators  should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing  the due diligence  the firm undertakes in respect  of the 
introducers that use their scheme  and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place  in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members  and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate  permissions,  qualifications  and 
skills to introduce different  types  of business to the firm, and 
Ref: DRN246245616oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records,  
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers  
ensuring all third-party  due diligence that the firm uses or relies  on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include  having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept  to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks  clearly  identify those instances  that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business,  or to undertake  further investigations  such  as 
instances of potential pension liberation,  investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments  and non-standard  investments  that have not been approved 
by the firm 
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations  about  the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged  by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet  its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally  enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of purchase 
and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous investors have 
received income  if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy  etc).
Although Ive referred to selected  parts of the publications to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports  and the 
Dear CEO letter are not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised  guidance  is). 
However, the fact that the reports and Dear  CEO letter  did not constitute formal guidance 
does not mean their importance should be underestimated. As mentioned, they provide a 
reminder that the Principles for Businesses  apply and are an indication  for the kinds of things 
a SIPP  operator  might do to ensure fair treatment of its customers  and produce the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the 
regulators expectations of what SIPP operators  should be doing  also goes some way to 
indicate what I consider  amounts to good  industry  practice. 
I also note that Careys regulatory  obligations  under the Principles existed from the outset of 
Mr Fs relationship with it. So the reports,  letter and guidance  which each  gave the 
regulators view on the kinds of steps a SIPP operator might  take in practice  to achieve the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles  are each relevant considerations in this case. 
I recognise that the 2013 finalised guidance and the Dear CEO letter  was published after 
the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed  
Ref: DRN246245617throughout, as did the obligation  to act in accordance with the Principles and with COBS  
2.1.1R (the client's  best interests  rule).
It is also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports (and the Dear  CEO letter  in 2014)  
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended  good 
practices into the conduct of their business already.  So, whilst the regulators comments  
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the standards  shaped what  was 
expected of SIPP operators changed  over time, it is clear the standards themselves did not 
change.
That doesnt  mean that in considering what  is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Careys actions with these documents in mind.  The reports, letter  and guidance gave non-
exhaustive guidance.  They did not say the suggestions given were the limit of what  a SIPP  
operator should do. As the annex  to the Dear CEO letter  notes, what should be done  to 
meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.  
So, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Carey complied with its  
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise  its business affairs responsibly  and effectively,  to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the clients best interests. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles  and the publications listed above, as well as COBS 2.1.1R to provide an 
indication of what Carey  could have done  to comply with its regulatory obligations and 
duties. 
In this case, the business Carey was conducting was its operation of SIPPs.  I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding  
whether to accept  or reject particular  investments  and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided  some examples of good  practice  observed by the 
FSA and FCA during  their work with SIPP operators. 
the due diligence carried out by Carey on CL&P 
It is clear that Carey understood and accepted  that it had a responsibility to carry out due 
diligence on CL&P. On the non-regulated introducer  profile, Carey stated, As an FSA 
regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on 
unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce  client to us to gain some insight into the 
business they carry out.
The evidence Carey  has provided indicates  it took the following due diligence  on CL&P:  
On 19 September  2011 it obtained  a print out of the CL&P  website.  This contained 
the following  information:
we are working hard to become the leading supplier of commercial land and 
products across different areas with good long term growth.
expert advice tailored  to the individual  (my emphasis)
In accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, CLP 
brokers do not provide  any financial advice.
Ref: DRN24624561820 September 2011  it completed background checks on two representatives of 
CL&P.
27 September 2011  it asked CL&P to complete  a non-regulated introducer profile.
29 September 2011- the non-regulated introducer profile was completed  by CL&P. It 
was signed by Terence Wright, and named him and Lesley Wright as directors  of 
CL&P. 
9 December 2011  it spoke to representatives of CL&P and discussed the high 
portion of business it had introduced which related to the transfer of final salary 
schemes, and the payment of cash  back incentives. It was agreed that in future any 
defined benefit  transfers would be referred  to a suitably qualified  IFA for relevant 
advice and a copy of that advice  would be provided to Carey for its file record.
13 March 2012  it asked CL&P to sign a non-regulated introducer  agreement,  
backdated to the time it first started  to refer business  to Carey (15 August 2011). 
23 March 2012  it asked CL&P for a copy of its accounts and passports  of the 
directors. 
3 April 2012  it repeated  its request  to CL&P for a copy  of its accounts and 
passports of the directors. 
15 May 2012  it completed a background check on Terence Wright, which revealed 
he was the subject of an FSA alert.  
When taken together,  these efforts went  some  way towards meeting the examples of good  
practice set out by the regulator in the publications Ive set out above. I expect Careys 
action was taken  with these  and its overarching regulatory obligations  in mind. However, 
rather than conducting  sufficient due diligence proactively,  before  deciding to accept 
business from CL&P, in my view Carey  took a reactive  piecemeal  approach.  Acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations  Carey should have taken many of the steps it 
subsequently took prior to accepting any business  from CL&P.  If it had done so, I think  it 
ought to have led it to conclude that it would not be fair and reasonable to accept Mr Fs 
business from CL&P.  I have set out below in more detail  the steps I think  Carey  should have 
taken and what, acting fairly and reasonably, it should have concluded having taken those 
steps. 
what should  Carey have  done? 
 
the FSA warning 
I have noted Careys submission about  the published FSA notice in 2010. I have based my 
findings on what was published in 2010, not 2013. At the time Carey  was carrying out 
checks on CL&P the following warning  was on the FSA website:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA)  has today published this statement in order  to warn  
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms. 
Ref: DRN246245619The purpose of this statement is to advise members  of the public that an individual 
Terence  (Terry)  Wright
is not authorised  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things,  advising  on 
investments. The FSA believes that the individual  may be targeting UK customers via the 
firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service  and the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
At the very outset, I think Carey should have checked the regulators list of unauthorised 
firms and individuals. The list featured warnings (alerts) about unauthorised individuals and 
businesses. Checking the warnings posted  on the FSAs website is something that Carey 
should have done as matter of course as a part of sufficient due diligence, before it began  
accepting any business from CL&P. CL&P was an unregulated  business,  based in Spain, 
and was proposing to deal with the pensions of UK consumers, in an introductory capacity. 
As I explain later in this decision, I think if Carey had carried  out sufficient  due diligence,  or 
drawn reasonable conclusions from what it already knew, it ought to have known CL&P was 
going to be doing more  than merely  introducing consumers to Careys SIPP. But, in any 
event, Carey ought to have known the FSA kept a list of alerts, relating to unregulated 
businesses, which were  often based  overseas, dealing with UK consumers. As a SIPP  
operator considering accepting business  from an unregulated overseas firm it should have 
been mindful of this list and, acting fairly and reasonably, it ought to have checked it before 
proceeding. 
I note that the non-regulated introducer profile  had a question which asked Are you and/or 
the Firm subject to any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. Mr 
Wright answered that question No.  However,  it was not sufficient in my view to simply ask 
the introducer a general  question.  Rather, I think Carey, acting fairly and in Mr Fs best 
interests, should have  carried  out checks on Mr Wright. I think  a reasonable step for it to 
have taken was to check the FSAs list of warnings. Had it done so, it would  have discovered  
that Mr Wright was on the list and subject of the warning I have quoted.  
I also note the background checking  service  Carey used revealed Mr Wrights presence on 
the list when it ran a check on Mr Wright on 15 May 2012. When  Carey began  accepting 
business from CL&P it used this checking  service,  but used it to check  two representatives 
of CL&P, rather than to check  Mr Wright. Acting  fairly and reasonably Carey should have 
checked Mr Wright at the outset, not two representatives of CL&P. The available  evidence 
shows Carey knew  Mr Wright was a director of CL&P   it is therefore him they should have 
checked at the outset.  
So I think that Carey, acting fairly and reasonably, should have checked the FSAs list at the 
outset, and would have checked the FSAs list at the outset (via the checking service). 
I note that Carey ended  its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on 
Ref: DRN246245620Mr Wright. It therefore seems likely this check was a factor in its decision to end the 
relationship. So had Carey focussed  its checks on the correct  target  at the outset  it may 
have led it to draw a different conclusion about the acceptance of business from CL&P  at the 
outset. 
Carey now says, in its representations in this complaint relating to the FSAs list, that, the  
Notice (the alert) amounts simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on 
regulated activities, a fact of which Carey was well aware and upon which basis  it accepted 
referrals from CL&P.  
I think Mr Wrights  appearance on the list ought to have highlighted to Carey  that the 
regulator was concerned  enough about  Mr Wrights activities to warn consumers about him. 
And I think in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to conclude that the warning was 
aimed at protecting consumers from detriment in their dealings with him.
With this in mind, I think the warning  should  have acted as a significant reason for Carey  to 
be concerned about  any business Mr Wright was involved  in  not just Cash  In Your 
Pension. The warning  mentioned that Mr Wright  was involved in the area of pensions   
which is the same business area as CL&P was active  in. And the warning said that 
Mr Wright  was not authorised and may be targeting  UK customers in connection with 
investment business  conducted through an unregulated company, Cash  In Your  Pension.  
I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, after he had answered  no to a question 
asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a 
red flag to Carey  it should have given rise to significant concern about Mr Wrights 
conduct. 
Carey has tried to downplay the significance of the 2010 warning by contrasting  it with one 
that was published in 2013. It says that the 2010  warning does not detail any concern by the 
regulator about Mr Wright.  I accept  that the 2013 warning provides strong advice  to only deal 
with financial firms authorised by the FCA.  However,  I do not agree with Careys 
characterisation of the 2010 warning and Im surprised  that in response to the investigators 
provisional assessment  Carey suggests that the regulator does not detail any concern about 
Mr Wright  in the 2010 warning. Whilst it does  not explicitly say that Mr Wright had been 
undertaking a regulated activity the inference  that he had is in my view clear. If the regulator 
had no concerns it would not have issued an alert in order  to warn investors against dealing  
with unauthorised firms  followed by advice telling members of the public that Mr Wright was 
not authorised  to carry on a regulated activity including advising on investments. 
Carey accepts that the wording in the 2013 warning, if it had been published at the time of it 
accepting business  from CL&P,  would have  been  sufficient to stop it doing  business with 
Mr Wright/CL&P.  Carey  has said:
The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear  warning including  an express  
comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that would  have put Carey 
Pensions on notice  to stop accepting business  from Mr Wright. (my emphasis)
In my view the October 2010 warning was also a clear indication  that the regulator  had 
serious concerns  about the way Mr Wright conducted his business and therefore  should 
equally have  put Carey on notice that it should  not accept business from Mr Wright.  
A warning headed ALERT in bold is clearly not a routine, unimportant document.  Its clear 
Ref: DRN246245621from the wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with unauthorised 
firms and specifically named Mr Wright.  He was involved in targeting  (to use the FSAs 
phrase) UK based  pension  investors   which should  have been of particular concern for a 
SIPP operator considering accepting business from him.  The warning also provided links to:
A list of unauthorised  firms
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors
A document telling investors about  the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms  
targeting UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
So the warning  was more than a mere statement of fact that an unauthorised firm could not 
carry out regulated  activities. It was a clear warning  an alert - relating specifically to 
Mr Wright, providing links to guidance  on consumer protection and warnings about scams. In 
my view the 2010 warning  is as serious in its implications as the 2013  warning. 
So in summary,  if Carey had undertaken sufficient  due diligence on CL&P  it would  have 
discovered that its director Terence Wright was on the FSA warning list and acting fairly and 
reasonably it should  have  declined to do business  with him. I think  this alone was sufficient 
for Carey to conclude that acting fairly and reasonably and taking account  of the need to act 
in Mr Fs best interests it should not have accepted  business from CL&P.  
CL&Ps business model 
As Ive highlighted above, in the circumstances, I think that acting in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr F fairly, the 2010 warning alone  should 
have resulted in Carey  declining to do business  with CL&P.  However, as Carey  does not 
accept that the 2010 warning should have led it to conclude it should not accept business 
from CL&P I have, for completeness, considered  what other due diligence  Carey  should 
have carried out, as an absolute minimum.
Carey should have made enquiries to satisfy  itself CL&P was not conducting business in a 
way that could result in a real risk of detriment for consumers.  In complying with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr F fairly, it is fair and reasonable  to say 
that Carey should  have  ensured that it fully understood CL&Ps  business model before it 
accepted any business from it. And I note Carey appears to have recognised  this itself, 
having explained in the introduction to the non-regulated introducer profile As an FSA 
regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on 
unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce  client to us to gain some insight into the 
business they carry out.
In response to the investigators view, Carey  says that it reasonably  considered at all times  
that CL&P was an unregulated introducer  which was not providing advice. However, I dont 
agree that this is a reasonable conclusion given the information that was either readily  
available at the time or that could have been  discovered through  a basic  level of due 
diligence. Rather,  I think there  was a significant  risk that CL&P  was targeting  UK pension  
consumers and giving them  advice even though it was not regulated  to do so. 
Mr F says he received advice. And I think its fair to say that its unusual  for people to make  
important decisions about their pensions without advice or a recommendation about  where  
to invest funds  particularly where the investment is high risk and unregulated.  Theres  also 
no suggestion that Mr F spoke to anyone else about his pension  options or that any other 
Ref: DRN246245622party was involved.  So I think  on balance  its likely  that Mr F was advised by CL&P  to make  
the Store First investment. 
This is the kind of risk that ought  to have been at the forefront of Careys  thinking when 
dealing with an unregulated business  like CL&P - especially because  of the regulators 
warning about  Mr Wright who the FSA believed was targeting  UK customers, and the 
reference to advice  contained in the print out of CL&Ps website Carey had regard to. 
I think given Careys regulatory obligations, it is fair and reasonable to say that it should  have  
taken steps to understand much more  about what CL&Ps business model involved beyond 
the limited information  contained in the non-regulated  introducer profile and the other basic  
enquiries that it made. Carey should,  for example, have followed up on the very brief 
answers provided on the introducer profile about  how CL&P  actually contacted potential 
customers, the type of investments it would be introducing, what  information was being 
provided to customers,  what steps  were being taken to ensure  that customers  were not 
advised or were  directed to a regulated adviser, and how CL&P  ensured that it was not 
conducting other regulated activities. 
If it had conducted  further enquiries as part of its due diligence before accepting  this 
business I think Carey would have (or ought to have) identified  that it was unusual that 
CL&P, an unregulated business based in Spain, was contacting  consumers in the UK about 
pension investments. I think its likely that it would have found that CL&P  was calling  
customers to discuss  their pensions, that it specialised in a few high risk esoteric 
investments and, following contact from CL&P,  and without the involvement of any other 
regulated parties,  many  UK consumers  were transferring their pensions  to SIPPs to make 
these investments. I also think its likely that Carey  would have found that there were 
insufficient safeguards  against advice being  given.  
Knowing this, and the regulators  warning  about  Mr Wright, I think  Carey ought to have 
identified that there  was a real and significant risk of consumer detriment in introductions 
made to it by CL&P. This ought to have given it further reason  to conclude that it would not 
be consistent with its regulatory obligations - it would not be treating Mr F fairly and in his 
best interests - to accept business from CL&P.
I accept that there is a possibility that, if Carey  had made enquiries, CL&P  might not have 
been forthcoming with information about  its business model.  But that is not a reasonable 
basis for not making  reasonable enquires.  Further, if CL&P  was reluctant or refused to 
provide information  about its business model  or if its answers  were  ambiguous  and 
contradictory, that ought to have been something in and of itself that made  Carey  concerned  
about the integrity and motivations of those operating CL&P.  As such, I think  this too should 
have led Carey to conclude that there  was a real risk of consumer detriment and that it 
would not be treating  Mr F fairly  and in his best interests in accepting  his introduction from 
CL&P.  
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think  in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Carey failed to conduct  
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before  accepting  business from it, and if it had carried  out 
proper due diligence,  it ought to have  concluded  that it should not accept any business from 
CL&P. I therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that 
Carey should not have  accepted Mr Fs application.
further points  
Ref: DRN246245623defined benefit (final salary) transfer  
One of Mr Fs pensions was a final salary scheme, and the transfer to the Carey SIPP was 
submitted to Carey by CL&P  as execution only business. In December  2011,  Carey had a 
conference call with CL&P and explained  that concern had been raised at a recent  AMPS  
conference regarding Final Salary Transfers to SIPPs  and the need for clients  to take 
advice. In this call Carey noted  that ordinarily  you would not expect more than 5% of FSTVs 
[final salary transfers] to be execution only and these would only be relevant for suitably 
qualified individuals  such  as IFAs, Brokers,  Investment  Professionals.
Similarly, in the same  conference call in December 2011, Carey agreed with CL&P  that in 
future cases of FS Transfers would be referred to suitably qualified  IFAs for relevant advice 
and copy of that advice would be provided to Careys  for file records.   It is clear from this 
agreement that Carey had identified a real risk of consumer  detriment  where a consumer  
was transferring from a final salary  pension to a SIPP  on an execution  only basis  and that 
this new requirement  was put in place in order to protect  consumers from this detriment. 
With this in mind, I think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Fs case  to 
conclude that Carey should have  been concerned about Mr Fs execution  only transfer of a 
final salary scheme to invest in Store  First.  
 
cash incentives 
Carey has said that had Mr F acted reasonably and honestly and told it about  the 
inducement payment then Carey would not have proceeded with the investment and Mr F 
would not have suffered the losses he has.
In November 2011 (before Mr Fs pension transfers had completed and investments been 
made) Carey became aware  of a number of consumers  who had received incentive 
payments to move their pensions to Carey.   Such  payments are against  the rules  covering 
pensions and can attract a substantial tax charge from HMRC.   On becoming aware of this 
Carey spoke to CL&P.  But I think it ought  to have spoken to consumers directly  about this, 
not just to CL&P.  And I think  such action would  have  led to the conclusion  that cash  
incentive payments  were  being offered by CL&P. 
So, by the time Mr F made the investment  Carey  should have been  aware  that CL&P  had 
been making illegal payments  to investors. However, its action to merely ask CL&P  whether 
that was correct was in my view inadequate. It accepted at face value what  CL&P  said but 
did not investigate  further. If Carey  had asked the investors making the GAS  and Store  First 
investments I consider  it more likely than not that they would have established  the CL&P  
were arranging for incentive payments  to be made.   In fact both investments  appear to have 
been carried out by Carey  after it had terminated its relationship with CL&P. Yet it still went  
ahead and made the investments with the knowledge that CL&P had been making incentive 
payments. 
In the light of that, I think Carey ought to have concluded it would not be consistent with its 
regulatory obligations to deal with any further business from CL&P   whether that was new 
business or pipeline business consisting of applications accepted but not completed.  It 
should not therefore have  proceeded with Mr Fs transfers and investments, in the light of 
this knowledge.  I think Careys awareness of cash incentives should  have led to conclude  it 
should not proceed with all business brought to it by CL&P.  In light of this serious  allegation 
I think Carey should have questioned whether CL&P  was a suitable  and trustworthy  firm to 
Ref: DRN246245624be dealing  with. In my mind this should  have been  a significant red flag.  
should Carey have  proceeded  regardless?  
the member declaration  and indemnities 
The member  declarations signed by Mr F do give clear warnings about the loss of 
guaranteed benefits that would result from the transfer to the Carey SIPP. And the 
indemnities sought to confirm that Mr F was aware  the investments were  high risk, had taken 
his own advice, and would not hold Carey responsible for any liability resulting from the 
investments. 
The main  point to make here is that Carey  should  never have accepted the business  from 
CL&P, for the reasons  given. So Mr F should never have got to the point of signing a 
member declaration, or the indemnities, as the business should  not have come  about at all. 
In any event, I dont think  these documents, in themselves, are sufficient for me to conclude 
that Carey acted fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Fs instructions. 
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators  should, as an example of good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers  taking 
responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data regarding  the 
aggregate volume of such business.
With this in mind, I think Carey ought to have been  cautious about accepting  Mr Fs 
application and because of the documents he had signed. There was no evidence of any 
other (than Carey) regulated party being involved in this transaction. In these  circumstances 
I think very little comfort could have  been  taken from a declaration  by Mr F that he had 
decided not to take advice  (in relation to the transfer  of his pension) and understood the risks 
or the indemnity stating that Mr F had taken his own advice,  and understood the risks (in 
relation to the investment). 
Carey accepting business whilst  asking Mr F to sign documents to absolve  it of all 
responsibility was not treating Mr F fairly, given what Carey  ought to have known. Carey  was 
the regulated  entity here. It had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory 
obligations that Ive set out in this decision. In my view,  asking  Mr F to sign a declaration and 
an indemnity absolving it of all responsibility when  it ought to have known that Mr Fs 
dealings with CL&P were  putting him at significant  risk was not the fair and reasonable thing 
to do. It should  have  refused the business,  not gone  ahead regardless and asked Mr F to 
absolve it of the consequences. 
COBS 11.2.19R
I note that Carey has made the point that COBS 11.2.19R  obliged  it to execute  investment 
instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, it is obligated to 
execute the specific instructions of its client. 
However, in the circumstances,  it is my view that the crux of the issue in this complaint is 
whether Carey should have accepted the SIPP application from CL&P and established  
Mr Fs SIPP in the first place. And, for the reasons I set out above, it is my view that Carey  
should not have done so. 
Ref: DRN246245625This argument was considered by the judge in the recent case  of Berkeley Burke v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878 (Admin) .  In this case the judge  said:  
The heading  to COBS  11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which orders  
are to be executed:  i.e. on terms most  favourable to the client. This is consistent  with the 
heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely:  Best execution.  The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to 
the same  effect.  The expression when  executing  orders indicates that it is looking at the 
moment when the firm comes to execute  the order, and the way in which the firm must then 
conduct itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of execution; a conclusion  reached,  albeit 
in a different context,  in Bailey & Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras  [34]  
[35]. It is not addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order  should be 
executed at all. I agree  with the FCAs submission that COBS  11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client  orders, and is designed  to 
achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being executed, 
and refers to the factors  that must  be taken  into account when deciding how best to execute 
the order. It has nothing  to do with the question of whether or not the order should be 
accepted in the first place.
I therefore dont  think that Careys argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles  to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP  in the first 
place. 
payment for upset
Carey has also said it considers the £500 suggested by the investigator to compensate Mr F 
for the upset caused by losing the entirety of his pension has not been justified.  I do not 
agree.  Mr Fs complaint has been  made on his behalf by a Claims Management Company 
and the original letter of complaint said:
Our client has also been caused  worry and distress by the significant loss of his pension 
fund and seeks an additional award  of compensation to reflect this.
Whilst Mr F has not gone into any detail, it is in my view unarguable that Mr F will have been 
distressed by the loss of most of his pension.  When  making  an award for this type of upset I 
have to be consistent with other awards made by this service  in similar circumstances.  So  
taking these factors into consideration I agree with the sum suggested by the investigator.     
in conclusion
All in all, I do not consider  that Carey acted  with due skill, care and diligence, organised and 
controlled its affairs responsibly, or treated  Mr F fairly or acted in his best interests by 
accepting Mr Fs business from CL&P. To my mind,  Carey did not meet  its regulatory  
obligations, and allowed  Mr F to be put at significant  risk of detriment  as a result. 
To be clear, I am not making  a finding  that Carey should have assessed  the suitability of the 
investment or the SIPP for Mr F. I accept Carey had no obligation to give advice to Mr F, or 
otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. My finding  is not 
that Carey should  have  concluded that the investment or SIPP  was not suitable  for Mr F.  It 
is that Carey did not meet  its regulatory obligations and should not have accepted  the 
business from CL&P. It failed to treat Mr F fairly  or act with due skill, care and diligence  or 
take reasonable care to organise  and control its affairs responsibly by doing  so. And, in the 
Ref: DRN246245626circumstances, it is fair and reasonable for Carey to be held responsible for its failings.
is it fair to ask Carey  to compensate Mr F? 
In deciding whether  Carey  is responsible  for any losses that Mr F has suffered on his Store  
First investment I need to look at what would have happened if Carey had done what  it 
should have done i.e. not accepted his application.   
Had Carey undertaken  sufficient due diligence before or at the time Mr Fs business was 
introduced to it, it ought to have concluded that it should not accept business from CL&P. 
That should  have been the end of the matter  it should have told Mr F that it could not 
accept the business.  And I am satisfied, if that had happened, the arrangement for Mr F 
would not have come about in the first place, and the loss he suffered could have been  
avoided. The financial loss has flowed from Mr F transferring out of his existing pensions and 
into a SIPP.   For the reasons  I set out below  I am satisfied that, had the SIPP  application not 
been accepted, the loss would not have been suffered. 
Had Carey explained  to Mr F that it would not accept the application from CL&P I find it very 
unlikely that Mr F would have tried to find another SIPP operator to accept the business,  
cash incentive or not. He is likely to have had no trust in CL&P  once he became aware 
Carey would not accept  the business. In any event, I dont  think  its fair and reasonable to 
say that Carey should not be responsible for its errors because another SIPP  operator  would  
have made  the same  mistakes. I think its fair instead to assume  that another SIPP provider 
wouldnt have processed the transaction if it had carried  out sufficient due diligence  in 
accordance with its own regulatory responsibilities  and good  industry  practice. So again,  I 
think the end result would have  been  that Mr F would  not have made the Store  First and 
GAS investments or the transfers from his existing pensions that preceded it. 
So I am satisfied that Mr F would  not have continued with the SIPP, had it not been  for 
Careys failings, and would have remained in his existing  schemes.   And, whilst I accept that 
CL&P is responsible  for initiating  the course of action that has led to his loss, I consider that 
Carey failed unreasonably  to put a stop to that course of action when it had the opportunity 
and obligation  to do so.
In making these findings, I take account the potential contribution made by other parties  to 
the losses suffered  by Mr F. In my view,  in considering what fair compensation looks like in 
this case, it is reasonable to make an award against  Carey that requires it to compensate  
Mr F for the full measure of his loss. But for Careys failings, Mr Fs pension  transfers  would 
not have occurred in the first place.  I am not asking Carey to account for loss that goes 
beyond the consequences of its failings.  I am satisfied those failings have  caused  the full 
extent of the loss in question.  That other parties  might also be responsible  for that same  
loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However,  that fact should  not 
impact on Mr Fs right to compensation from Carey for the full amount of his loss.  
Ref: DRN246245627putting things right
My aim is to return Mr F to the position  he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Careys failure to carry out adequate  due diligence checks before accepting  Mr Fs SIPP 
application from CL&P.  
In light of the above, Carey should calculate fair compensation  by comparing the current  
position to the position  Mr F would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pensions.  
In summary,  Carey should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr F has suffered as a result  of making  the transfers. 
2.Take ownership of the Store  First and GAS investments if possible.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ts SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
loss calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief  
and the effect  of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Lastly, in order  to be fair to Carey, it should  have the option  of payment of this redress  being 
contingent upon Mr F assigning any claim he may have against CL&P, to Carey.  The terms 
of the assignment  should require Carey to account  to Mr F for any amount it subsequently 
recovers against CL&P that exceeds  the loss paid to Mr F. 
Ill explain  how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further  detail 
below:
1.Calculate the loss Mr F has suffered as a result  of making  the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Fs pensions,  had he left them where 
they were instead  of transferring to the SIPP. 
For the part of the transfer  which related to defined benefits, Carey should undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the revised  methodology  issued by the FCA in October 2017. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate actuarial 
services provider promptly following receipt  of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the 
decision. 
Carey may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P  
entitlement.
For the remainder Carey should ask Mr F's former  pension provider to calculate the current 
notional transfer  value had he not transferred  his pension. If there are any difficulties  in 
obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return 
index should be used to calculate the value. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.
Ref: DRN246245628The total of the amounts resulting from these calculations will be the loss Mr F has suffered. 
The calculations should take account of the value  of any cash  held in the SIPP  currently. 
The Store First investment should  be assumed to have no value.  Account  can be taken  of 
the incentive payment Mr F received.
2.Take ownership of the Store  First and GAS investments
I understand Carey  has been able to take ownership  of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible, so Mr F can close his SIPP. 
If Carey is unable  to take ownership of the Store First investment, it should remain  in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely to have any value  in the future,  and I 
understand Mr F has the option of returning  his investment to the freeholder  for nil 
consideration, which would enable him to close his SIPP. If possible Carey should take 
ownership of the GAS  Verdant investment.  Carey should calculate a commercial  value for 
Mr Fs GAS Verdant investment, then pay that sum (plus any costs  involved)  into the SIPP  
and take ownership  of the investment. If Carey is unable to buy Mr Fs investment in GAS 
Verdant it should give the investment a nil value for the purposes of calculating 
compensation.
If Carey is unable  to take ownership of the Store First or the GAS  Verdant investment, they 
should remain in the SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely they will have any 
value in the future.  I understand Mr F has the option of returning his Store First investment 
to the freeholder for nil consideration.   
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP  and Mr F decides not to transfer 
it to the freeholder he should  be aware  that he will be liable for all future costs associated  
with the investment such as the ongoing  SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further 
complaint about  these  costs. 
3.Pay an amount into Mr Fs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
loss calculated in (1). 
I am not certain whether,  currently, Mr F can pay the redress into a pension plan. If he can, it 
means that the compensation is able to be paid into a pension. If this is the case, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief  Mr F could 
claim. The notional  allowance  should be calculated using Mr Ts marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr F may not currently be able to pay the redress  into a pension.  But had 
it been possible to pay the compensation into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  
income. Therefore  the total amount  to be paid to Mr F should be reduced to notionally  allow  
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  The notional allowance  should be 
calculated using Mr Fs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr F is likely  to be 
a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,  the notional  allowance would equate to a reduction  in the 
total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum,  the notional allowance  should  be applied  to 75% of the 
total amount.
Ref: DRN2462456294.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr F has been  caused some distress  by the loss of all of his pension benefits.  I consider  that 
a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate  for that upset.
SIPP fees
The investigator said in his view that future SIPP fees should be waived. Whilst Store  First 
can be removed from the SIPP  I am not sure about  the GAS  Verdant investment.  If the 
SIPP needs to be kept open  as a result  of the GAS  Verdant investment  then any future SIPP  
fees should be waived until the SIPP can be closed.  If the SIPP  is kept open with only the 
Store First investment in it then Mr F shall be liable for the future costs associated with 
interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment  must  be paid to Mr F or into his SIPP  
within 90 days of the date Carey receives  notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Interest must  be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 
90 days. 
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period  and so any period of time where the only 
outstanding item required  to undertake  the calculation  is data from the DWP may be added 
to the 90 day period  in which interest wont apply.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that I uphold  Mr Fs complaint. Options SIPP UK LLP 
should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2462456