K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a payment of £2,200 made  on 
his credit card. He says that he didnt authorise  the payment. 
background
Mr A is represented in bringing this complaint by his daughter, Miss A. Shes explained  that 
she has, for some time, been receiving fertility treatment from a private clinic. Shes been 
very unhappy with the advice and treatment  shes  received  and is seeking  damages from the 
clinic. 
In August  2018  a payment of £2,200 was made to the clinic that had been treating Miss A, 
using Mr As Nationwide credit card. Mr A says that the clinic had his card details from a 
previous payment made  several years earlier, and that it took payment using those card 
details, without his consent or authority.
Nationwide looked  into things and contacted the clinic for its comments.  It said that Miss A 
had provided it with her fathers card details;  it hadnt kept those details from a previous 
payment. The payment  had therefore been authorised. 
Nationwide also considered whether Mr A might have a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974   because Miss A said the advice and treatment shed received 
had been unsatisfactory. It noted however that the clinic had dealt with Miss A, but the 
payment had been made using Mr As card, so section 75 could not apply.  It noted  too that 
the clinics terms did not guarantee a successful outcome  to any services  it provided. 
Nationwide didnt offer Mr A a refund, and he referred his complaint to this service,  through  
Miss A. 
One of our investigators  considered the case,  but broadly agreed with Nationwide.  She was 
satisfied that the clinic had not used Mr As card details without authority, but rather  that Miss 
A had used the card after Mr A had agreed  to pay for part of her treatment. Mr A didnt agree 
with the investigators  conclusions  and asked that they be reviewed  by an ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have, however, reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  did. 
Ill consider first of all whether Mr A made the credit card payment or authorised  someone 
else to do so. 
I dont believe that the payment was the result of the clinic keeping  Mr As card details from 
an earlier payment. That payment  was made  some  years before  the disputed  payment, and 
Mr As card had been renewed in the meantime. Im satisfied that the replacement card 
details were used. 
Mr A acknowledges that he had agreed to pay in part for his daughters treatment. But, he 
says, he decided against that when  there  were  serious complications. I note however that 
the clinic  required payment before the course  of treatment started. Perhaps more 
significantly, Miss A said in an email to the clinic  sent after the payment that Mr A had 
agreed to make a part payment for the treatment  using  his credit card. So I agree with the 
Ref: DRN22800612investigator that the most  likely explanation here is that Mr A provided  Miss A with his card 
details so that she could use them to make  the payment hed agreed to. It follows  that, whilst 
Mr A may not have made payment himself,  he allowed his daughter  to use his card to pay 
the clinic  the proportion of the fees that hes agreed  to fund. Had she done that without her 
fathers consent, it would  in my view be inconsistent for her to represent him in bringing this 
complaint. 
Ive considered too whether Mr A might have a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. One effect of section 75 is that in certain cases a credit card holder who has 
a claim for breach of contract  or misrepresentation against a supplier (which  in this case  
means the clinic) can bring  that claim against  the credit card provider. Here, though, the 
credit card holder is Mr A, but the person who might have a claim against the clinic is Miss A. 
I believe therefore that Nationwide was right to conclude that Mr A didnt have the protection 
of section 75.  
Its not for me to say whether Miss A has a valid claim  against  the clinic, and I note that shes 
pursuing that though other  means. But, even if she has, that doesnt  mean  that Mr A could 
bring that claim against Nationwide. 
In the circumstances, I dont believe it would be fair for me to require Nationwide  to make a 
refund or otherwise  to compensate Mr A in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to take any further steps  
to resolve Mr As complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2280061