K821x#15Complaint
Mr O complains that FirstRand  Bank  Limited refused to cover the cost of repairs  to his faulty  
car. 
Background
In late July 2018 Mr O acquired  a second hand  car costing £14,200 funded by a deposit  of 
£4,000 with the balance  met by a hire purchase  agreement. It was some two years  old and 
had done 17,000 miles. He says he was assured by the salesman that it was in excellent  
condition with a years warranty. The dealer has said that it wasnt  advertised as having a 
warranty. 
Mr O noticed the car wasnt  running  properly and on 2 September  he booked  it in to a main 
dealer. The main dealer was only able to inspect it in October and in the interim Mr O kept 
topping up the oil. The main dealer identified that a non-genuine oil filter had been  fitted  
which caused an oil leak. It also voided  the manufacturers warranty.  The seller didnt accept 
responsibility and Mr O complained to FirstRand.
It commissioned an independent report and this said there  was evidence of excessive 
amounts of oil such that the source  could  not be identified. It also identified  other  minor  
issues. The inspector concluded that on the balance of probability the faults  would not have 
been present  at the point  of sale. FirstRand rejected  Mr Os complaint. 
He brought the matter to this service where  it was considered by one of our adjudicators  who 
recommend it be upheld. He referenced a video health check  by the main dealer which 
confirmed the cause of the oil leak and the ensuing damage. Mr O decided  to pay the main  
dealer to repair the problem as the dealer  wasnt prepared to assist. The invoice shows Mr O 
paid £2,242.14. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think it was normal that a consumer should be expected to pay over 
£2,000 in repairs for a car that was only two years  old and had covered 24,000 miles. He 
thought it likely that as it had been sold with non-genuine  part, there was a good  chance that 
this issue was developing at the point  of sale.
Our adjudicator noted the fault developed within six months and the independent  report 
stated further investigation is required and cleaning to ascertain the origin  of the faults 
which suggested the cause was not determined in the inspection. On balance  he thought it 
likely that the fault had been present at the point of sale.
FirstRand didnt agree and said the independent  report showed there was no fault at the 
point of sale and it noted Mr O had driven the car for 6,770 miles in five months. It added 
that the health check didnt show the faults had been present at the point of sale.  It also said 
the car wasnt sold as having genuine  parts. 
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27545602In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is rare that I would go against an impendent report, but in the circumstances of this 
complaint, and the other evidence I have  been given, I consider that it should be upheld.  I 
will explain  why.
The inspection was carried out on 14 December, a few months after the purchase and 
concluded on the balance of probability the faults  would not have been present at the point 
of sale. However, I note that the inspector has recorded he was unaware of the failure date 
or the failure  mileage.  Mr O reported  the problem  about five weeks after the point of sale so 
if the inspector  is correct  it occurred within a narrow five week window. That seems unlikely 
to me.
I also note that the inspector said further work  was needed to ascertain the origin  of the 
faults. That indicates an element of uncertainty and I have concluded that the inspectors 
report cannot be taken  as definitive and I need to consider  the wider circumstances. 
The car was not old and had done  a fairly low mileage, so it is unreasonable to expect it to 
have suffered such a major failure.  The main dealer concluded that it was due to a non-
genuine oil filter being fitted. I am satisfied  that this was fitted  before Mr O acquired the car 
and as such it is reasonable to concluded the issue was most likely present at the point of 
sale.
Mr Os job requires him to cover a lot of miles and I am satisfied he was able to do so by 
regularly replacing  the oil. He identified the problem  shortly after acquiring the car and the 
fact he was able to make use of it doesnt mean that it wasnt sold with a fault. 
I can understand the dealer may not have been  aware of the fault, but that doesnt  permit me 
to alter my conclusion. The car came with part of the manufacturers warranty  still in place 
although I dont  believe it was advertised  as such.  But it is reasonable for Mr O to have 
presumed that the warranty  was valid unless it was pointed out to him that this was not the 
case.
Ref: DRN27545603So while I have some sympathy with FirstRands position I consider this complaint should be 
upheld
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FirstRand  Bank  Limited to:
pay Mr Os £2,242.14  repair bill
pay back  one monthly  payment due to his time without car
pay £50 for trouble  and upset he suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2754560