K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a mortgage in 2004.  Mrs B says she was mis-sold this policy.
Weve established  that a company called CIGNA  Europe Insurance Company SA-NV  is 
responsible for dealing  with this complaint. So for consistency, Ill refer mainly  to CIGNA in 
this decision. 
background
This type of PPI required the payment to be made up front  in one single premium  at the 
beginning of the mortgage term. The PPI in question cost around  £4,735  which was added  
to Mrs Bs £97,082 mortgage. It was payable over the 25 year mortgage term, with interest. 
The PPI policy covered Mrs B in the event of losing her job being  unable to work.  Our 
adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint should be upheld, but CIGNA 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
CIGNA says this wasnt an advised sale. Having looked at the documentation we were sent 
by CIGNA, I accept thats probably right. But this doesnt abrogate CIGNA of any 
responsibility. It still had a duty, for example, to ensure that the information  provided during 
the sale was clear, fair and not misleading so Mrs B could make an informed choice about 
what she wanted to do. 
I dont think Mrs B was given clear information. 
Two common features  throughout  the sale documents  CIGNA  sent to me are that its not 
made clear enough about either  what the PPI actually cost in total - and importantly, how the 
policy worked. 
For example, like Mrs Bs mortgage,  the PPI was subject to interest over the whole 25 year 
mortgage term. This meant that with all the interest added,  the PPI would  actually end up 
costing her significantly more money  than the amount quoted (£4,735) on the agreement  she 
signed.
Nor, in my view, is there enough clear information which  highlights  how this policy  works. 
This issue is very important because  I dont think Mrs B would have realised that the PPI 
protection only lasted  for 4 years, but her mortgage  ran for 25 years. So I dont think shed 
have known she would still be paying for the PPI over the full 25 year term, some 21 years  
longer than the PPI policy actually ran for.
Ref: DRN25654502So if she wanted to remain covered  by PPI for the whole term of her mortgage, Mrs B would  
have had to take out another PPI policy or similar, after just 4 years  to cover the remaining 
term of the mortgage.  And I dont think it wouldve been clear she would  have to pay for PPI 
cover all over again after 4 years, whist still paying for the cover which had expired.
Our adjudicator pointed  these issues out but CIGNA hasnt said that much  about them, other  
than to reiterate  that this wasnt an advised  sale and that Mrs B would have been  sent a 
welcome pack and been  able to change her mind  during the cooling off period. It says Mrs 
B agreed  to the PPI and it complied with the requirements of a non-advised sale.  
However, as Ive said, Im upholding  Mrs Bs complaint on the grounds of the poor 
information that was given  to her. The agreement she was asked to sign left out the 
important information  and aspects of the PPI cover  Ive referred to above. Im satisfied that if 
Mrs B had been had been provided  more  and clearer information she wouldnt have bought  
the policy. I think she would have taken into consideration  the large shortfall or gap in the 
PPI protection  Ive described above  and the cost of the policy. 
Having done this I think she would have considered it to be very poor value for money  and 
wouldnt have bought it. 
what should  be done to put matters right 
Mrs B borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so her mortgage was bigger than it should have 
been and she paid more than she should  have each month. So Mrs B needs  to get back  the 
extra she paid. So, CIGNA should:
Work  out and pay Mrs B the difference between what she paid each month on the 
mortgage and what she would have paid each month  without PPI.
Work  out and pay Mrs B the difference between what it cost to pay off her mortgage 
and what it would  have cost to pay off the mortgage without PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, CIGNA  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  CIGNA to take off tax from this interest. CIGNA must give Mrs B a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Ive upheld this complaint  and I direct CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV  to pay Mrs 
B compensation as Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ref: DRN25654503ombudsman
Ref: DRN2565450