K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), informed  the credit reference agencies  of an incorrect  default date which 
meant the default  on his loan account  was recorded  on his credit  file longer than six years.  
background
In or around May 2018 Mr L applied for credit  from several lenders and was refused. He 
obtained a copy  of his credit  report on which it said he had a defaulted  account  with BPF. He 
complained to the credit agency  who said the information was correct and it was unable  to 
change any information  without the permission  of the finance company that had provided it. 
He complained to BPF in August 2018. 
In its final response BPF said Mr L had a loan agreement signed  on 9 July 2008. It said it 
had sent a letter to Mr L on 18 June 2013 confirming outstanding arrears which resulted in it 
reporting a default to credit reference agencies. This default  would remain  for a six year 
period. Mr L wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to this service.  He 
said the default was recorded in June 2013  but that it should have been  recorded in 
November 2011.  Mr L also complained  that BPF failed to provide  a response to his 
complaint within  the statutory  period it is required to respond. 
In February 2019  BPF said it had amended Mr Ls record of default  with the credit reference 
agencies. But our adjudicator felt Mr L had had to wait an unfair amount of time for his credit 
file to be amended  and that the issue could have been resolved sooner. She initially thought 
£100 compensation was fair and reasonable for the inconvenience. After a few weeks  Mr L 
reported his credit reports had not been  updated. The adjudicator  increased  the level of 
compensation recommended to £200 but advised Mr L that records may take up to 60 days  
to update with some  free credit reference companies. 
The adjudicator also said that BPFs delay in responding to Mr Ls original complaint wasnt 
detrimental to him.
Mr L remained dissatisfied.  As at 12 April 2019 he confirmed the default was still registering 
on his credit file so it has come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly I am pleased  to see that Mr L has confirmed  his credit file has been updated and it no 
longer reports the default. I also note BPF has accepted it should  have  recorded  the default  
with credit reference agencies in January 2012. 
So it is left to me to decide whether BPF has acted  fairly with respect to amending the 
default record and whether £200 is fair and reasonable compensation.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ls loan account  summary. The loan was advanced  on 17 July 2008. 
Mr L made regular payments every month until October 2011. He failed  to make payments 
from November 2011. In November BPF sent the first default letter. In January 2012 it sent a 
Ref: DRN27249742notice of default. So Im satisfied  that default  should have been recorded with credit 
reference agencies  in January 2012  and so should have expired January 2018. 
I can see from its final response  letter  that BPF failed to take account of Mr Ls statement of 
account and payment history, as well as letters it had sent to Mr L in late 2011 and early  
2012 regarding  the default.  It referenced a letter it sent in June 2013 concerning the arrears 
which may explain why the default wasnt registered until 2013.  But Im satisfied this is 
incorrect and added  to Mr Ls worry enough for him to bring  his complaint to this service. 
Following intervention by this service BPF acknowledged this error  on 15 February  2019  and 
said it had requested the relevant amendments  be made to Mr Ls credit file on 11 February  
which would mean  the default would have expired by that date. Mr L said he checked his 
credit file on 25 February and he found the default was still showing  up as a live default. The 
default continued to be reported on 28 March.  
BPF explained to this service that it would  normally advise up to 28 days  for a record  to be 
amended depending on each credit  reference agency and 60 days  for the services which are 
free. 
Ive looked at the system notes provided by BPF and Im satisfied it contacted the credit  
reference agencies  to amend the default date when it said it did on 11 February 2019. There 
is no evidence to suggest these notes are incorrect. 
I do appreciate that the delay in the updating  of the credit reference agencies records has 
caused Mr L some concern. Once  BPF updated  them, as Im satisfied it did in February, it is 
then up to the agencies to refresh their records. Mr L only used agencies whose services  are 
free so I wouldnt expect  the records to be updated  as quickly  as fee paying services. 
However BPFs failure  to recognise the correct date of the default  both in January 2012 and 
when Mr L brought  his complaint to this service has caused Mr L worry and I believe £200 is 
fair and reasonable compensation and what I would expect in these  circumstances. 
Mr L has said he believed BPF sought  to manipulate  the date of the defaulted account out of 
malice in order to extend beyond  the six year statute  of limitations,  to cause financial 
hardship. Ive seen no evidence to suggest this situation has arisen from any attempt to 
manipulate the date with malicious  intent.  It is more likely it derives  from an administrative 
error. And as Im satisfied BPF did contact the agencies  on 11 February  I cant hold it 
responsible for when  the agencies update their records. 
Mr L has said he has been  financially disadvantaged by the default as hes been  
unsuccessful in applying  for credit. Im sorry  to hear this. While I do understand a default on 
a credit file would impact  credit applications,  lenders take into account a number of variables 
when approving credit so it would be unfair  of me to hold BPF solely responsible  for this. 
Mr L has also complained  that BPF failed to respond to his complaint in time. Complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity so I am unable to comment  on this. 
my final decision
My final decision is Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, must pay Mr L £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Ref: DRN27249743Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2724974