K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about twelve payday  loans  that Quick Quid provided to Mr D from March 
2010 onwards.  Mr Ds last loan was provided in July 2011. Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ds 
complaint and thought that he shouldnt have  been  provided with the loans from loan three  
onwards. Quick Quid didnt accept  our adjudicators view in full. So the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three, four, five and six would  
more likely than not have shown that:
the repayment required to settle these loans represented a significant proportion  of 
Mr Ds monthly  income. In these circumstances,  there was a significant risk that Mr D 
wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing 
Ref: DRN28903122further. In my view,  Mr D coming  back for a larger loan days  after repaying his 
previous one supports this.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr D, I also think  
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Mr D was unlikely to have been able to 
make his payments  in a sustainable  manner  when it provided loan seven. I say this because:
by loan seven,  Mr D was into what was approaching his seventh month of owing 
Quick Quid money.  In my view,  Mr Ds loan history up until this point  of taking 
further loans (often  for larger amounts) shortly  after repaying previous ones - was in 
itself a clear demonstration of his inability to settle  his loans over the life of the credit  
agreement.   
Mr D continued to be provided with new loans shortly after having repaid  previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr D was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Ds indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
I think that Mr D lost out because Quick  Quid continued to provide borrowing  from loan three 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr D owed  Quick Quid money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint  and Quick Quid should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan three to eleven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest,  charges and 
overpayments from the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
deduct all interest  and charges applied from the outset of loan twelve  from the 
current outstanding  balance. An outstanding  balance is likely to remain  even after all 
adjustments are made. So Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mr D should  it wish to do so;
the period  of time Mr D owed Quick Quid money  means that any information  still 
recorded about loans seven to twelve is adverse. So all entries about these loans 
(where they remain) should be removed from Mr Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN28903123For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2890312