K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society, (NW), mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
background
Mr W bought the policy  by post in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
He says that NW didnt mention PPI at that time. But when he later noticed it on his 
statements, he says that he queried  it, and was told that it was compulsory. And, not 
knowing anything different, he accepted that.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. In response  to 
this opinion Mr W made several comments including:
He wasnt aware  of the policy;
Because he didnt  know  about  the policy he was not aware  of its costs, benefit, 
exclusions or limits;
At the time he was not in the habit  of taking out extra cover  for anything;  and
The PPI wasnt recommended to him.
Mr W has also said he feels our adjudicator  was siding with Nationwide  in his assessment 
and had taken  their word  as the truth rather than acting independently. And he felt that the 
information hed provided to us had been  ignored  and hed just been sent a standard 
response. He also said that we had failed to ask him any questions about  why he believed 
he was mis-sold, and why he is pursuing this claim.
Because Mr W disagreed  with our adjudicator the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
followed his in deciding  Mr Ws complaint. 
Our complaint form, which Mr W completed, asked for details  of his complaint and what  
happened, how he had been  affected and how he wanted it put right.  And Mr W has been 
free to send us any other information,  comments or evidence about his complaint he wished 
during our process. My role in deciding this case is now carefully to consider, objectively and 
impartially, everything weve been  sent or told by him and NW. I do this independently of the 
parties and of any views  previously expressed  by our adjudicator. Where the available 
information is unclear  or inconsistent I have to decide what, on balance, I think is most likely 
to have happened. And thats what Ive done.
Ref: DRN29021582Ive decided not to up hold this complaint. I explain  why below.
I think that Mr W knew that the policy was optional and that he chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen  his signed  credit  card application form. This has a section in it headed 
Payment Protection Insurance. In this there is an explanation that he would  still have been  
responsible for making card repayments if he had been unable to work and that he could 
protect these payments.  There are two boxes  in the section. One to be ticked  to accept the 
insurance and the other to decline it. I can see that the first mentioned box has been ticked.
I know that Mr W has told us that he queried  the PPI payments  on his credit  card statements 
and that he was told at that point that he had to have the policy. NW has no record  of this 
contact. Of course I cant conclude from this that it didnt take place. But, as Mr W was trying 
to recall a conversation that took place at least 15 years ago, (being the date his credit card 
was closed), I dont think that I can fairly  rely just on his recollection  of what NW said to him 
at that stage. So in the absence of any more persuasive evidence, on balance  I dont 
consider Ive sufficient  reason to find that NW didnt make it clear that it was optional.  
In response to our adjudicators opinion Mr W said that, knowing nothing about  PPI at the 
time, he didnt know if he was eligible for it. But the section to which  Ive referred  above  
makes it clear that by ticking  the first mentioned box Mr W confirms  that he meets  the 
eligibility criteria  set out in the enclosed brochure. If Mr W was uncertain about this in any 
way he could have  discussed it with NW. In any event knowing what  I do about the terms of 
the policy and Mr Ws circumstances at the time, I can see that Mr W was eligible for it.
NW didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W. This means that it didnt have to check  
whether the policy  would be right for him. It was up to him to decide  whether  he 
wanted it or not. However NW still had to give Mr W clear, fair and not mis-leading 
information about the insurance so that he could make an informed decision.
The account  application form said that the PPI cost 60p a month  for each £100  
outstanding on the account.  And it explained that its cover included  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. Its likely  that NW didnt  give Mr A all the other  
information about the PPI as fully or clearly as it ought  to have. However,  knowing  
what I do about the terms and conditions of the policy and Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time, he was not affected by any of its main  restrictions and limitations. Following a 
successful claim  the policy would have paid 10% of Mr Ws credit card balance a 
month for up to 12 months. This would have been on top of any sick or redundancy 
pay he would have  been entitled  to from his employer - leaving these and any savings 
he may have had available to help meet his other  expenses while he was unable to 
work. So I dont think  that being given better information would have changed his mind 
and made  Mr W feel that the policy wouldnt have been of use to him
My above  conclusions mean that I dont find that Mr W was mis-sold the policy. So he 
hasnt lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with NWs sales 
process. This means  that theres nothing I require NW to put right.
Ref: DRN29021583As Ive explained above, Ive considered everything that Mr W has sent to us or told 
us, including  that, if his application  for his credit card suggests he requested  PPI, then 
it was not explained to him what it was or if he needed it. From what  Ive said above 
Im satisfied that the application form gave a brief explanation of what the insurance  
was. And I have no reason to conclude that the PPI brochure referred to in the form 
wasnt included. And indeed, if it wasnt or its terms still did not make clear  what the 
policy was for, Mr W could always have discussed this with NW before completing  and 
returning his application. And as Ive also explained above, it was up to Mr W to decide  
whether he needed the insurance  or not. 
Mr W has also said that the tick in the box requesting  PPI was not made by him. He 
says that he didnt and doesnt  make his ticks that way. And points out that it is 
different from another one on the form. He suggests  that it was NW that made  this tick. 
Inevitably letters and other handwritten marks on a page made by the same party will 
not be identical. And in the absence  of more persuasive evidence I dont think  I can 
fairly and reasonably make a finding  that NW without Mr Ws consent altered his 
application after he had sent it in.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2902158