K822xcomplaint
Mr H and Mr S are unhappy with the way that Ageas Insurance  Limited dealt with their home 
insurance claim for water damage to their property.
background 
Mr H and Mr S have  joint interests in a property. Mr H and his family were living abroad at 
the time of the claim. They had an arrangement  whereby Mr S and his wife would live in the 
property and pay 56% of the mortgage  payments. This is reflected in a trust deed. Mr H and 
his wife and Mr S and his wife were declared  respectively to have joint interests  and to be 
entitled to the proceeds of any sale, after deducting  the equity (to which Mr H and his wife 
were entitled) in the proportions of the mortgage  payments  ie 56% against  44%.  Mr H and 
Mr S are joint policyholders.
In October  2016 Mr H made a claim to Ageas after Mr S advised that water was coming in 
through the floor. There was trace and access cover under the policy  and Ageas made a 
number of attempts  to find the source  of the leak. It wasnt  able to do this and the damp 
conditions in the property got so bad that Mr S and his family had to move out in March  
2017. Mr H appointed loss assessors to act in June 2017. After  extensive further tests 
arranged by the loss assessor  the cause  of the leak couldnt be definitively found. It was 
thought to be in part due to a drain under the property overflowing.  Mr H and Mr S opted not 
to carry out further  testing  but to look at installing  a permanent  pumping system. 
Ageas advised  these  were preventative works  not covered under the policy. It also thought 
the likely  cause was a rise in groundwater, again not covered. Nevertheless it agreed in April 
2018 to pay a cash settlement to reflect the cost of reinstatement work. Mr H had returned to 
the country by this time and Ageas  agreed  to pay his alternative accommodation costs.
Mr H accepted the settlement which included the alternative accommodation cots. However 
he said that Mr S had paid for his own alternative  accommodation from March  2017. As a 
result hed been unable to pay his share  of the mortgage costs.  They  also incurred the cost 
of a loss assessor  and electricity costs during the time they were out of the property. Ageas 
agreed that there had been delays  and offered £200 compensation.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought it would be fair for Ageas to pay either  the 
cost of alternative accommodation  or the mortgage costs. She thought it should pay the loss 
assessors costs as its involvement  led to the claim being  paid.  She said it should increase 
the compensation to £600.  
Ageas was prepared  to pay towards  Mr Ss mortgage  and to increase the compensation to 
£400. It wasnt prepared  to pay the loss assessors costs. These arent covered under the 
policy and it denied the suggestion  that it wouldnt have paid the claim without  the loss 
assessors involvement. Mr H and Mr S accepted  the investigators view.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN26407662alternative accommodation
As a joint policyholder and part owner of the property Mr S was entitled under the terms of 
the policy to alternative  accommodation. This was if the property couldnt be lived in. I note 
that Mr S stayed in the property until March 2017.  From the time the claim was made there 
were various unsuccessful attempts to find the leak at the property.  So its not surprising that 
the property became too damp to live in. From March 2017 Mr S had to pay for alternative 
accommodation so couldnt pay his share of the mortgage payments.
Mr H returned from working  abroad in January  2018  and from then Ageas paid for his 
alternative accommodation. Under  the terms of the policy Ageas would only be expected to 
pay the reasonable increased costs of alternative  accommodation while the property couldnt  
be lived in. Mr H took over paying  the full mortgage costs from January 2018, and its been  
agreed that payment of Mr Ss share  of the mortgage for that nine month period is 
reasonable to reflect  those costs.  I think its fair for Ageas to pay that sum which  amounts to 
£3,411.90. I have advised Ageas that I would be requiring it to add interest  to that sum, 
which will be at the rate of 8% per year from when  each  instalment was paid until 
reimbursement.
loss assessor
Our investigator said that Ageas  should pay the loss assessors  fee incurred by Mr H. Ageas 
says that isnt payable under the terms of the policy. It says that the claim progressed  on the 
costs provided by the loss assessor. But it says the involvement of the loss assessor didnt 
affect whether  it paid the claim or not.
I agree  that under  the terms of the policy, unless such costs were agreed  with Ageas, its not 
obliged to pay costs  such as loss assessors  fees.  But I note that from October 2016 until 
June 2017, when Mr H appointed a loss assessor,  the leak couldnt be found,  and the 
property was being stripped out in places. I can see no indication  from Ageas that it would 
cover the claim until the loss assessor  got involved.  And while I note that even with the tests  
carried out through the loss assessor  the source of the leak couldnt be definitively 
established, at least Mr H was able to come  to a conclusion about  it. Ageas advised us that it 
doubted that the claim was covered but was prepared to give Mr H the benefit  of the doubt.
I dont know if Ageas wouldve settled the matter without the involvement of the loss 
assessor. But it seems to me that the claim was stalling and the loss assessors involvement 
produced a cash settlement which all the parties  agreed. I note also that the loss adjusters 
appointed by Ageas advised the cash settlement was considerably  less than its own 
estimated costs of reinstatement.
So, taking all that into account I think its fair that Ageas should pay Mr Hs costs of 
employing a loss assessor,  which amount  to £6,598.58. This was deducted by the loss 
assessor from the cash settlement so Mr H has paid it.. Ageas should  add simple interest at 
8% from the date of payment until it reimburses  Mr H.
electricity bills
Ageas said it would pay the reasonable increased cost of Mr H not being able to live in his 
home. I agree with the investigators view that this will be the bills incurred  at the insured 
property whilst Mr S or Mr H werent  living there ie from March 2017  until Mr S moved back.  
Any bills paid should  have  interest  added in the normal way.
Ref: DRN26407663compensation
Ageas offered Mr H £200 in May 2017 for the delays  until then. It took a further year to sort 
matters out and whilst I appreciate that neither Mr H nor Mr S were  living  there I do think  
they were put to considerable inconvenience.  The proposal is that it be increased  to £600 
which I think is fair and reasonable. The payment is for both policyholders.  Mr H and Mr S 
will have to agree  between them as to how it will be split. They may want  to agree with 
Ageas how this is to be paid.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas:
to repay  to Mr H, Mr Ss share of the mortgage payments from March 2017  until 
January 2018  in the sum of £3,411.90 and to add simple interest* at 8% per year 
from the dates each mortgage instalment was paid until payment to Mr H.
to pay to Mr H £6,598.58 representing the loss assessors fee and to add simple  
interest* at 8% per year from the date Mr H paid it until it repays him
to pay to Mr H any electricity costs incurred at the insured property from March 2017  
until the repairs are finished.  Any bills that have  been paid by Mr H in this time should 
have simple interest*  added at 8% per year from the dates  Mr H paid them until 
repayment by Ageas.
pay to Mr H and Mr S a total of £600 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2640766