K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the way Fairmead  Insurance Limited dealt with a claim for 
water damage under  their home insurance policy.
background
In mid-June 2018 Mr and Mrs A made a claim to Fairmead for water damage  to their dining 
room walls caused by their neighbours leaking pipe. Fairmead accepted the claim  and 
appointed a contractor to dry and repair the property. Three walls  needed  to be replastered  
and redecorated.  The works finished  on 4 September 2018.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Fairmead about  the way the works had been carried out. They  
said its contractor caused unnecessary delays  turning a four week job into one that took 
about eight or nine weeks.  
Mr A said that during  those weeks he lost time off work, waiting for the contractor who either 
didnt turn up or turned up without the right equipment. He was also concerned  about all the 
dust and damp in the property as at the time his wife was expecting  their second child.
Fairmead agreed that theyd had poor service. It paid them £400 compensation and its 
contractor paid a further £50.
As Mr and Mrs A didnt think that was enough, they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold it. She agreed  that Mr and Mrs A had had poor service from 
Fairmeads contractor but thought the amount  of compensation theyd received was 
reasonable.
As Mr and Mrs A didnt agree, the matter has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Fairmead  has acknowledged  that the service Mr and Mrs A had from its contractor was 
poor, the only issue I need  to consider in this decision is the amount of compensation it 
should pay Mr and Mrs A for the impact this had on them.
Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. But when this service  considers  how much  compensation to award, its 
looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its policy holder above and 
beyond that which wed normally  expect to see associated with a claim of this type.
I can understand Mr As concern that his wife and young child might be affected  by the dust 
and damp  in their open plan living room/dining room. Fairmead said that it would offer the 
family temporary accommodation  if they provided  a report from their doctor saying  that the 
conditions were bad for their health  but it didnt think the works were  likely to have that 
effect. I think this was a reasonable  offer in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN28631092Mr A says he took five days  paid holiday  to deal with the claim, sometimes unnecessarily 
because the contractor didnt turn up. Although  he hasnt shown that he suffered a financial 
loss as a result of this, I can understand that it would have been very annoying  for him and 
Ive taken this into account when looking at the amount of compensation Fairmead should 
pay for trouble  and upset.
Ive looked at the timeline Mr A has provided regarding the works. A lot of the problems that 
arose during the works were due to poor organisation on the part of Fairmeads contractor. 
This led to builders turning up without prior notice or not turning up at all on several 
occasions when  they were  supposed to have been  at the property. There were also times 
when they didnt have the right equipment or materials for the job. Throughout all this time 
Mr and Mrs A had to chase the contractor for updates as they werent kept informed. All this 
must have  been  very frustrating for them. Ive also taken into account  the fact that at this 
time Mrs A was expecting  their second  child and the unnecessary  additional stress wouldnt 
have been good for her.
But its only fair for me to recognise that Fairmead  has acknowledged where its contractor 
was at fault and compensated  Mr and Mrs A for that. Having  taken all the circumstances into 
account and the impact  the failings had on them,  in my opinion the total compensation of 
£450 is fair and reasonable.  I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and 
Mrs A but Ive thought about this services approach to awards made in similar situations and 
I dont think I can fairly  award any more.  If this complaint had come before me without  any 
offer of compensation having already been  made, its very unlikely, having  taken  all the 
circumstances into account,  that Id have  awarded more than £450.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2863109