K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  wont  pay her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
Miss A bought  her pet insurance policy for her dog online in July 2012. The policy gave 
cover for a medical condition for 365 days from the first occurrence of the condition  up to the 
policy limit. She renewed the policy each year.
In May 2017  Miss As dog was referred to a specialist vet who advised  that her dog needed  
eye surgery, costing about £2,300-£2,500. Miss A contacted Red Sands to see if it would 
pay for the surgery. Red Sands said it wouldnt as the dog had treatment for her eyes  in 
2015 and it was an ongoing medical  condition, outside of the 365 days  cover.
Miss A says the specialist vet contacted Red Sands to explain that the operation wasnt  for 
an ongoing medical condition and the vet told her Red Sands had agreed to pay for the 
claim direct to the vet. The operation went ahead. 
Six months  later the vet contacted Miss A to say Red Sands had declined  the claim and she 
owed £2,991. Miss A says it was only when  she got an email  from the vet in January 2018  
that she was told the policy had a £2,000  limit. Her vet agreed to reduce the £991.79 over 
the policy limit to £500 as it hadnt  told Miss A about the increase in cost.
Red Sands  wouldnt  pay the claim for two reasons. First, cover for the ongoing eye condition 
had already ended. Second, it said if Miss A had told it about the dogs eye problem in 2015 
it would  have added a specific exclusion covering all claims with respect  to the dogs  eyes 
and eyelids with effect from 20 July 2016 (the renewal date of the policy).
Miss A complained to us. She said Red Sands had withheld important information from her 
vet by not telling it about the specific exclusion and it wasnt  fair that she was being held 
financially liable for the miscommunication. She wouldnt have agreed to the operation if 
shed known the claim wasnt covered as her dog didnt  have  a life and death condition  and 
she cant pay the cost.  She wants Red Sands to pay the claim.
Our investigator thought Red Sands should assess the claim as there was no evidence of a 
link between  the dogs  previous eye condition  and the claim condition.
Red Sands  disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans decision. It said it told Miss A in two 
calls in May 2017 that the claim wouldnt be covered as Miss A had told it the dogs  eye 
issues had continued  on and off for three  years. It had told the vet the same.  At that time the 
exclusion for the eyes and eyelids hadnt  been added as it hadnt seen the dogs medical 
record to know she had eye problems  in 2015 (so it wouldnt have been able to tell the vet 
about the exclusion). But it said it could rely on that specific exclusion and sent us its 
underwriting guidance.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ref: DRN23330692Miss A has made several comments in her complaint form about errors  she thinks  her vet 
practice made in dealing  with Red Sands. Our investigator correctly explained that we 
consider complaints about financial businesses so we cant look any concerns Miss A has 
about her vet.
Im intending  to uphold this complaint  for additional reasons than our investigator gave as 
I also need to consider  the specific exclusion Red Sands added  to the policy. I have to 
decide whether  Red Sands can fairly and reasonably decline Miss As claim for either of the 
reasons its given, and I dont think it can. Ill explain why.
is the claim medical condition an ongoing condition?
The policy gave cover for a medical  condition for 365 days  from the date the condition 
occurred.
The vet notes do show that Miss As dog had a problem  with her eye in September 2015. 
Shed also been  seen  by the vet with eye issues from August 2016. Red Sands  have  taken 
that to mean the medical condition claimed  for was the same condition that started in 2015.  
But Ive listened  to recordings of the phone calls that took place between Red Sands and the 
vet practise. In the 2018 call the vet practice  very clearly told Red Sands that the vet thought  
the dogs historical  eye problem  wasnt related to the claim condition.  The dog had a 
different a problem.
Theres no evidence that the claim medical  condition was an ongoing condition from 2015. 
Red Sands  cant decline  the claim on the basis that the claim condition had been  ongoing  for 
more than 365 days.
can Red Sands fairly add and apply the specific exclusion?
Miss As July 2017 policy schedule has a declaration statement that says on renewal of her 
policy she confirms her dog has not suffered from any disease/illness/injury  or undergone 
veterinary treatment and is not currently showing signs  of any disease/illness/injury  other  
than any claims  Red Sands know about.
The declaration says if Miss A cant confirm that assumption she should contact Red Sands.
Red Sands  says if Miss A had contacted it and told it her dog has seen  the vet in 
September 2015 about her eyes it would  have added the specific  exclusion covering all 
claims with respect to the dogs eyes and eyelids with effect  from 20 July 2016  (the renewal 
date of the policy).
But I dont think Red Sands can fairly add and apply that specific  exclusion. Ive seen no 
evidence that before Miss A renewed  the policy in 2016 Red Sands asked her any clear 
questions about  any medical problems or vet treatment her dog had in the policy year. If it 
had, and she had misrepresented the answers, it might  be fair to apply  a backdated 
exclusion  effectively doing what it would have done had it known the true position. This is 
what the law permits  in some circumstances when there has been  a misrepresentation 
relevant to the risk being covered. But as Red Sands hasnt shown me it asked Miss A 
relevant questions there isnt an issue of misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN23330693Red Sands  has also referred  to the declaration statement in the July 2017 policy  schedule  
that Miss A has to contact it about  if she cant confirm the statement. The dog did have 
conjunctivitis in August 2016. But Ive seen no evidence that Red Sands sent Miss A clear 
questions about  her dogs health before the policy renewed and highlighted that she needed 
to look at those  questions and take action if required before she renewed the policy.
I dont think its fair to allow Red Sands to rely on the declaration  statement  within  the 
renewal policy schedule  to retrospectively  add and apply such a broad exclusion when 
theres no evidence  that it asked  her a clear question about her dogs medical history before 
renewal.
Red Sands  should  remove  the specific exclusion covering all claims with respect to the dogs 
eyes and eyelids with effect from 20 July 2016,  from the date the exclusion took effect.  It 
cant rely on the exclusion to decline the claim.
what Red Sands needs  to do?
As well as removing the exclusion  Red Sands must pay Miss As claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and limits and subject to any excess  and co-payments.
The policy information  sent to Miss A is clear the policy limit for a condition  is £2,000.  So 
shell be responsible  for any payment above  the limit. If shes already paid the vet part of the 
payment Red Sands  must  cover, it must pay her interest on that sum as Ive detailed  below.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss A agreed my provisional  decision.  Red Sands confirmed receipt but didnt respond  by 
the response date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss A agreed and Red Sands didnt respond to my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings I uphold  this 
complaint.
Red Sands  must pay Miss As claim in line with the remaining  policy terms and limits and 
subject to any excess and co-payments.  If Miss A has made any payment to the vet that 
Red Sands  must pay it must add interest as detailed below. 
Red Sands  must also remove the exclusion covering all claims with respect to the dogs 
eyes and eyelids with effect from 20 July 2016,  from the date the exclusion took effect.
Ref: DRN23330694my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay Miss As claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits and subject to 
any excess and co-payments. If Miss A has made  any payment to the vet that 
Red Sands must pay it should  add interest at 8% a year simple to that amount from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement, and
remove the exclusion covering all claims with respect to the dogs eyes and eyelids 
with effect from 20 July 2016, from the date the exclusion took effect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Miss A how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss A a certificate  showing  this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2333069