K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that TSB Bank  plc refused their application  to port their mortgage 
product.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with TSB in 2016  for £87,200 on a capital repayment  
basis with a term of 11 years.  They also took out a fixed rate mortgage product for five years 
with an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage was redeemed  in that time. This 
could be avoided if they ported the mortgage  product.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs B wanted to downsize and applied to TSB to port their mortgage 
product to the new property. Although Mr and Mrs B were downsizing, they asked to port the 
mortgage at the same  amount. They planned to take some  equity  out of their property when 
they moved. If the existing loan was transferred in full it would have a higher loan to value 
ratio (LTV) than previously at 50.71% rather than 42%. On 10 July, TSB said that it 
wouldnt lend more  than £63,000 and Mr and Mrs B agreed to that. But because of a low 
credit score the application was referred  for a credit  risk review. On 10 August TSB agreed  
that it would  lend £63,000 if additionally  Mr and Mrs B paid off two credit card debts of about 
£2,500. 
After the referral to credit risk, Mr and Mrs B looked  to get an alternative mortgage  and 
accepted a mortgage offer for the balance they originally wanted from another lender  and 
paid the ERC. Our investigators view was that this complaint should be upheld as Mr and 
Mrs B werent looking to borrow any more money but were looking for a like for like 
mortgage with the one they already had. Although there was a change in the LTV our 
investigator felt that TSB should have  ported the mortgage without requiring them  to pay off 
the unsecured  debt.  
So, our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld and that TSB refund 
the ERC  of £2,912.06 and pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between  what they would pay in 
interest to the new lender and the interest  they would have paid to TSB until 31 December 
2021. TSB previously paid Mr and Mrs B £150 for the delay in processing their application.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B were  downsizing and wanted to port their mortgage  product and avoid the 
ERC. They wanted to move their existing mortgage of around £76,000 to a new property. 
This mortgage product ended on 31 December 2021.  So, they were  required to make an 
application for a new mortgage on the new property. This would be subject to the lenders 
conditions at the time of application. But also subject to any applicable  MCOB regulations 
and TSBs  overriding duty to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly. 
TSB was concerned  about a  couple of things although at the start, at least,  it would seem  
that affordability wasnt a major issue as  there was no change  to Mr and Mrs Bs incomes  
and a small change  to the contractual monthly payment (CMP). Firstly  there was a concern 
Ref: DRN29555162about the LTV on the new purchase. If Mr and Mrs B ported the same mortgage balance  
over, this would have  meant that instead  of the existing level of 42% it would rise to 50.71%.  
So, TSB wanted them to reduce the mortgage balance and Mr and Mrs B said they would 
accept a lower mortgage of £63,000. 
But Mr and Mrs B also failed TSBs credit score. This seems to be related to some old 
trading debts from over ten years previously  which meant that Mr and Mrs B were  still 
making small payments  towards what had been quite large debts. On 17 July the application  
was passed by the underwriter to credit risk. There was no response for a time until Mr and 
Mrs B made a complaint when on 13 August TSB said that it would make  the loan if Mr and 
Mrs B paid off their existing credit  card balances. I understand  that these at the time were  
about £2,500. This would have reduced the benefit to Mr and Mrs B of the loan further.   
Mr and Mrs B were  buying a new build  and presumably  under pressure from their builder 
and went to another lender who offered them a mortgage in the region of what they originally 
wanted.
I will look at the LTV issue first.  The notes record that as the LTV was increasing from 42% 
to 50.71% the underwriter would be unlikely to agree any proposal for existing TSB 
customers where TSBs risk is increasing . The underwriter then asked  the mortgage adviser 
to confirm the sale price, what the amount of equity was and what  was going to happen  to 
that money.   The underwriter expected Mr and Mrs B to be putting most of the equity to their 
purchase. But the mortgage adviser  said that Mr and Mrs B were  looking to complete home 
improvements, including new windows, and a small extension  with the disposable  equity. 
The underwriter replied  That is not a scenario  I am comfortable with and that he wasnt 
willing to proceed  above the current 42% LTV.  So the underwriter was only willing  to 
sanction a loan of £63,000  which Mr and Mrs B at that time would have accepted.
But the mortgage doesnt go ahead  after the underwriter refers the case to credit risk 
because of two old debts that Mr and Mrs B had been paying for some  years.  These debts 
existed before the original mortgage was taken out with TSB. There  is a reference  to the 
debts not being disclosed in 2016  but Ive received  no supporting evidence for that. As I 
understand it, all Mr and Mrs Bs payments to creditors flow through TSB accounts  so I 
believe that TSB should have been  aware of them. TSBs response was to require Mr and 
Mrs B to pay off, not these debts, but two other  credit card debts of about £2,500. This would 
in effect have meant that the benefit  to Mr and Mrs B in the mortgage was no longer £63,000 
but closer to £60,000.  Mr and Mrs B didnt consider this acceptable and so accepted a 
mortgage offer from another  lender.
TSB wrote to us on 3 February to explain its position. It said that it refused Mr and Mrs Bs 
original application  because there  was going  to be a higher risk to the bank and with their 
unsecured debts and they thought that the loan was unaffordable. The unsecured debts I 
understand to be two credit card debts referred  to above.  It also said that Mr and Mrs Bs 
low credit score was a factor and that the reduced  LTV was a change to the mortgage  
contract likely  to be material  to affordability. The bank  goes on to say that Mr and Mrs B 
were proposing to be a higher risk to the bank with the change in the loan to value and with 
their unsecured debt as a company we did not deem it affordable.
TSB has framed  its response to us in terms of affordability. As lenders  tightened  up on their 
affordability requirements in recent years, its recognised that this can lead to unfairness and 
this is in part relieved  by Regulations  including MCOB 11.6.3 and the general duty on the 
lender to act fairly to customers.
Ref: DRN29555163MCOB 11.6.3 says that a lender can forego an affordability assessment if the borrowers 
application doesnt require additional borrowing as was the situation  here and there isnt a 
change to the terms of the mortgage contract  likely to be material to affordability. Examples 
of changes to the mortgage contract material to affordability are given in MCOB 11.6.4.  
such as change in the type of mortgage from interest  only to capital repayment that would 
have a direct  effect on the affordability of the mortgage.
  
This was a like for like application where  Mr and Mrs B wanted to borrow  the same amount,  
on the same  interest  rate product, repayable over a similar term to their existing mortgage. I 
dont believe  that a change in the LTV was material to affordability. Its not mentioned in 
11.6.4 and doesnt appear to be similar to what is contained in that section. Its certainly 
relevant to the lenders risk. The lender wanted to maintain the existing LTV by insuring  that 
the equity from the house sale was used to reduce the borrowing on the property so 
reducing the LTV.  But Mr and Mrs B were proposing to use some of the money from the sale 
for improvements on the new property which would increase  the value of the property 
realising what the underwriter wanted  to achieve but by other means.  But it doesnt appear 
that TSB considered that possibility which could have equally  achieved TSBs aim of not 
increasing its risk exposure.
In regard to the two other older debts, as I understand  it from TSBs email  to us of 2 March  
2020 the two other debts would have  increased the level of Mr and Mrs Bs commitments 
and made  the mortgage unaffordable. These were debts being paid in respect of payment  
plans stretching back I believe over ten years and appear to be related to the debts of a 
company that stopped trading possibly in 2005. The payments are described by TSB as 
minimal in comparison to the debt. It seems that TSBs processes in 2019 picked up these 
debts but didnt when the original loan was sanctioned in 2016.  As I say above  Ive no 
evidence that Mr and Mrs B were asked  about these debts previously and failed to disclose 
them. Mr and Mrs B had been paying  these  debts before and after 2016 and I do not 
consider them to be changes in the mortgage  contract material to affordability under MCOB 
11.6.4 so that TSB could deem their mortgage  payments unaffordable in 2019.
This was a porting application which was on a like for like basis and so under MCOB 11.6 .3. 
unless there  was a material change to the mortgage  contract  TSB didnt have to apply the 
strict affordability criteria  expected of it. TSB looked  at its level of risk and because of the 
increased level of risk (although only to 50%) it wouldnt lend to the level that Mr and Mrs B 
had expected. I can see that this would have interfered with Mr and Mrs Bs plans for home 
improvements. Mr and Mrs Bs plans would  seem to me to have had the effect of reducing 
TSBs level of risk and TSB failed to consider  that which I believe to be unfair.
TSBs processes in 2018 also revealed  two other older debts which Mr and Mrs B had been 
paying off for years  and were paying  when they took out the mortgage  originally. As I say 
above I dont consider  that these fall into the category of changes to the mortgage  contract  
material to affordability.  It also seems  unfair  that Mr and Mrs B should be penalised  by TSB 
on affordability grounds for payments they had been making that pre-existed the original  
mortgage contract,  which they had been  making  during  the currency  of the contract  and 
where they had shown  that they could comfortably afford those payments. 
 
So, my view is that TSB should  have agreed to port Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage product for the 
balance remaining on the mortgage at that time.  I understand from the redemption statement 
that the balance was £72,801.57. TSB refused them that opportunity and Mr and Mrs B 
should be put in the position they would have been  in had their application been approved. 
Ref: DRN29555164In order to compensate  them TSB should refund the ERC of £2,912.06. Mr and Mrs B also 
had to pay a higher interest rate to the new lender than to TSB and I believe  that its 
reasonable that TSB pays for the additional cost of that interest.  So, TSB should pay Mr and 
Mrs B the difference between what they would pay in interest to the new lender on the 
balance of £72,801.57 and the interest  they would have paid to TSB until 31 December 
2021. From  the figures on the new lenders  mortgage offer for a loan of £73,970, Mr and Mrs 
B would have been paying a slightly increased  interest rate of 2.29% pa during this period 
rather than the existing rate of 2.24%. 
  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require TSB Bank plc to:
Refund the ERC of £2,912.06 together with interest at 8% pa from the date the 
mortgage was redeemed to date of payment  and  
Pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between what they would pay in interest to the new 
lender and the interest they would have paid to TSB on their mortgage payments  
until 31 December 2021 on the mortgage  balance of £72,801.57.
Under the rules  of the Financial Om Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2955516