K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Prudential Financial Planning Limited delayed notifying  him that it was 
unable to accept  the completed  Maturity Payment Form (MPF) and so unfairly refused to pay 
interest on the maturity  payment using the rate of 8% simple.  It only told him it couldnt 
accept amendments to the form after he had sent the altered MPF.
background
He also complained:
That he was unfairly expected to sign a maturity form without being  told what  the sum 
would be, particularly as the form included a blanket waiver clause removing his 
right to make any future claim regarding liability
An advisor from the Pru told him he could cross out anything  he didnt agree with but 
the Pru then reneged on this
He believed there was a £6,000  shortfall  in the projected pay-out so he wasnt  going  
to sign away his rights to pursue this issue
He experienced  unreasonable delays when  trying to get through the Prus  call centre
Its letter of 20 September did not separate out the charges for arrears  and he is 
unhappy with these (The Pru subsequently agreed to waive  these)
When Mr D sent back  the MPF he scored out the part where it says I/We accept that the 
maturity payment of the plan will be a full and final discharge of Prudentials  liability  under  
this plan as he didnt agree with it. An advisor from the Pru told him on 3 October 2018 that 
it wouldnt pay out without  the MPF  and if it wasnt returned it wouldnt pay interest on any 
delay.
Mr D signed the MPF and dated  it 2 October  2018 but it wasnt received by the Pru until
25 October 2018. Some of the wording on the form was crossed  out and new additional 
wording written above it.
The Pru did not contact Mr D till 5 November to explain that it wouldnt accept the form as it 
stood. It accepted that it shouldve responded within five working days  and paid Mr D £100 in 
lieu of this. It did not accept responsibility  for any lost interest  as Mr D had not submitted an 
acceptable, unamended form.
An investigator at this service noted that while Mr D said he only received the Prus  initial  
response (saying it wouldnt accept an amended form) after he sent the scored out form, it 
had only promised to review the form not to necessarily accept it. Further,  Mr D was 
reassured in the initial final response  letter that he could still raise  a complaint about the 
funds performance of the fund after accepting the pay-out - and it would  investigate  such a 
complaint. But Mr D made the decision not to complete an unamended  form. 
He felt the delay in responding  to Mr D - to say it wouldnt accept the amended form - meant 
it wouldnt have been possible to complete another form in time for the maturity to be paid 
out on 1 November 2018, and this probably  wouldnt have been possible  till at least mid-
November.
Taking this into consideration, he felt the Pru should pay Mr D 8% simple  interest,  in line with 
this services approach,  to cover the period  between  1 November 2018  and 16 November 
Ref: DRN268172322018  this being the time he wouldve  been without the funds due to the Prus delay in 
responding. This sum very roughly comes to £125.
He didnt believe that the Pru were responsible for the delays after this time. He said if Mr D 
wished to accept  the maturity payment  he should complete the form as the Pru required.
The Pru did not agree, and said:
Its aim was to respond within five working days  of receipt  of Mr Ds MPF i.e. by 1 
November 2018, the maturity date of his endowment policy.  Instead it contacted him 
on the seventh working day, 5 November  2018
Even if it had met its own service  time scale, and contacted him on 1 November 
2018, it would not have been possible for payment to have been made on this date
Mr D was made fully aware that settlement could not be made  until it received a 
signed form without  any alterations - on 5 November  and again  on 14 November 
2018
He was provided with a new form on 22 October 2018 and so its not unreasonable  to 
assume he could have signed  it and returned  this shortly after the call on 5 
November
A third form has also been sent and, to date,  it has not received this back (unaltered)
So it doesnt believe it is responsible for this continued delay, or that any interest 
should be payable  from 1 November 2018
Mr D has not responded to its requests  to returning the form,  which  he confirmed 
that he would do on 14 November
He has clearly not, therefore, mitigated  his position
Mr D also disagreed, saying the investigators  response did not mention a number  of the 
complaint points hed raised, including: 
His desire to retain his legal right to pursue a legal case  and not sign his rights away
His demand that the Pru now pays the money  it owes him
His demand for an apology from the Pru
His belief that the Pru had no right to demand for an unamended form as a pre-
condition of releasing his funds
It is an unfair contract and he expects  it to remove the clause about his rights  being 
taken away and/or allow him to amend the form
He raised two different types  of complaints and received two separate final response 
letters; these cannot be treated  as a single complaint and all the issues have not 
been addressed
He subsequently complained that the Prus recent letter saying that he needed to send  a 
signed form by January  24 or it would not send further reminders  as unhelpful, 
unprofessional and bullying, particularly as his complaint was ongoing.
The investigator responded to Mr D and said that while  he had not responded to his detailed  
points about the wording  of the form, he had considered the wording  and declaration. He 
was satisfied that the Pru was entitled  to act as it had. He also said it had promised that he 
could sign the form and still purse  this complaint. If he wanted to complain that the Pru had 
underpaid him £6,000  this would need  to be a new complaint as it was not part of his original 
complaint  and so had not been  considered by the Pru.
Ref: DRN26817233He felt the Pru was entitled to insist  on the signed  form, unamended, before making a pay-
out and therefore did not believe it had done  anything wrong.  He noted it had apologised for 
the modest delay and felt it did not need to do more. So, overall, he didnt accept that he had 
ignored Mr Ds complaint points, rather he hadnt agreed with most of them.
Mr D responded, saying:
He didnt believe the investigator  had properly dealt with his points about his statutory 
rights and had wrongly said, it doesn't take away your right to complain about the 
amount received off the back  of the performance
The disputed statement is: I/We accept that the maturity payment of this plan will be 
a full and final discharge of Prudential's  liability under this plan
In the "first' "final" response  letter  the Pru said, The statement asks you to accept  
that, after you have  paid all that you owe us, you accept  that the maturity value we 
pay out is everything due to you under  that policy
That is NOT what it says and, in any event, that is NOT  an assurance that my right to 
litigation is not removed
It then says, if you do not (sic) accept this, it implies you believe that other monies / 
benefits are due to you" which  suggests it does indeed see signed agreement  of the 
disputed statement as absolving them from future  claims  by a Policy  Holder.  Or why 
ask for it in the first place?
The Pru then claimed I would like to reiterate my assurance that you can raise a 
complaint in regard  to the performance  of your fund. We would not be allowed to put 
barriers in your way or refuse  to investigate your complaint'
This falls short of assuring him that future LITIGATION  remains  an option. It only tells 
him that he could  instigate an internal complaint  with them.  What  would  happen if he 
decided he wanted to pursue them through the court? Would  they then produce that 
statement and say he had signed to say he wouldn't hold them  liable? 
Have they at any point actually said that his Statutory Right  to hold them liable is not 
affected? No they haven't
The Prus response was at best,  unclear, and at worst, is a deliberately obtuse 
attempt to circumvent his objection to the statement's wording and their actual 
intention. It was reasonable to have  initial  concerns over the wording and have 
continuing concerns after the Prudential response to his queries
He does not accept that it was in any way the clear "assurance" that the investigator 
seems to be suggesting
To settle this matter  I should confirm that it is his statutory right to hold the Pru liable 
for the performance  and payment of the Plan and seek legal recourse, if required, 
after signing an MPF  containing  the disputed statement - and that this is binding on 
the Pru
It continues to benefit from the maturity sum during  the complaints process whilst he 
is denied a significant capital sum and investment opportunity
He will accept interest on the sum due calculated to this services  Final Review being  
issued
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN26817234Firstly, I feel it is important to reiterate  that this service offers  an informal  dispute  resolution 
service, in particular an alternative  to the courts. It is not our role to deliberate  on issues 
about legality,  consumer law or, for example, whether a business has infringed a consumers 
statutory rights.
It is our job to decide what we feel is fair and reasonable taking account of the available  
evidence.
My job, specifically, is to reach  a final decision about  a complaint where either  party has not 
accepted an investigators assessment. In doing so I need  to read and consider all the 
evidence and submissions but I am not required to, and do not set out to answer every 
single point made by each  party. Instead,  I explain the broad reasons behind  why I have 
reached the decision I have, addressing those points which I believe were crucial to that 
decision.
So in this case I have  read all Mr Ds points  and considered them   but have  not 
addressed each and every  one.
My decision  is based  on the following overall assessment of the following key issues.
I believe the Pru was entitled to use the disputed words and phrases on the maturity  form 
and to insist that it would not issue a payment until Mr D signed the form  and without 
making any amendments  or deletions.  It is, broadly-speaking,  for each business to decide on 
the wording of its forms and not something this service  would seek to interfere with. Also,  in 
my experience many if not most businesses use similar phrases in these circumstances.
Despite Mr Ds arguments about not being given any absolute  guarantees, I am satisfied that 
the Pru assured him that he would still be able to pursue  this complaint and his concern 
about a potential underpayment even if he signed the form.
I can also reassure Mr D that if the Pru either refused to do either of things he would be 
entitled to bring  a fresh complaint to this service and we would expect  it to act accordingly. If, 
Mr D wanted to bring a new complaint, arguing that the final pay-out was not right, this 
service would look into  whether  the Pru agreed or not  and would assess whether he had 
a case. The fact that he had signed  in full and final acceptance would not prevent us 
instructing the Pru to pay Mr D more if we felt it had underpaid.
So it is now for Mr D to sign the form, unamended, if he wished to receive  the maturity sum 
before any additional concern about  the maturity sum itself is dealt with. But I do not believe 
the Pru should pay interest  on this sum, beyond the small delay previously discussed.
I also believe its original apology was sufficient.
This leaves  the issue of how much compensation Mr D should be entitled to for the Prus  
failure/s. I accept that the Prus argument  that the crucial letter only missed its five working 
days target by several days. To this extent, the investigators recommendation to pay lost 
interest based on 14 days is excessive. 
But his recommendation wouldve amounted to around £125; a sum which  I dont think  is 
unreasonable. Given the size of Mr Ds maturity sum of £43,000 I recognise he will have 
been particularly  troubled by the errors it did admit to, including:
Ref: DRN26817235His difficulty in getting through  to its call centre
Failing to separate out the arrears charge
Failing to respond to him within five working  days
The limitations of its letter of 20 September
While it paid Mr D £100 for these, I am satisfied that an overall figure of £225 is more  
appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Prudential  Financial  Planning  Limited to pay Mr D an 
additional £125 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2681723