K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Miss P bought  a monthly premium PPI policy in September 1996 at the same time as taking 
out a credit card. The card and policy were  applied for during a meeting. The card and 
insurance ended in or before June  2006.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ps complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Miss P when she discussed having a 
credit card with an advisor during a meeting.  But Ive looked at sales documentation and 
considered what  I know  of Lloyds branch sales at that time. I consider it is more likely 
than not she was advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect her card 
repayments, and she took it on that advice by signing the agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in the application form provided that 
there is a separate section for PPI. I can see the box has been ticked  in this section and 
Miss P has signed the application  agreeing to have the insurance. I havent been  able to 
see any evidence that anything different happened in this sale and Miss Ps recollections 
have not persuaded me on this occasion that she wasnt  given a choice to have it either. 
So on balance, as I have  already concluded,  I think Miss P was given a choice in the 
meeting.
From  what I know of branch sales at that time, I think Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to 
Miss P. So it needed to ensure the policy was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for Miss P based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. 
I say this because  the benefit provided  by the policy would have been useful to her if she 
had any period of sickness  or unemployment.  Any claim could have been paid for up to 
12 months and would have provided her with additional income  at a difficult time. So 
I think the policy recommended  to Miss P would have  been of use and so I cannot 
conclude that it would  have been unsuitable for her based on what  I have seen. I also 
dont think there  were any significant terms or exclusions that made the policy  unsuitable 
for Miss P either.
Lloyds has been unable to provide evidence that it provided clear costs  at the time of 
sale. But I dont think Miss P wouldve changed  her mind about taking the policy  if this 
Ref: DRN20615002cost was presented  clearly to her during the meeting  (for the same reasons why I think  
the policy is suitable).
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Miss P wouldve been affected by any of these,  due to her circumstances at the time of 
sale.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Miss P but I cannot find a reason to uphold  her 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2061500