K821x#15complaint
Mr B complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited wrongly  cancelled  his motor  
insurance policy for non-payment  of his premium.
background 
Hastings cancelled Mr Bs policy because they said he hadnt paid his premium.  But he said 
he was able to pay it and they shouldnt  have cancelled, particularly while  he was querying  
what he owed. He was also unhappy that they hadnt properly explained  what they said he 
owed and kept adding on charges.
Hastings said that they were  entitled  to do this. But they apologised for giving Mr B incorrect  
information about what he owed, and for continuing  to pursue the debt while Mr B was 
querying it. They offered  to waive his outstanding  debt and pay him Mr B compensation of 
£25. Mr B didnt agree  and so brought his complaint  to us, through his daughter Miss B.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld.  She thought that 
Hastings hadnt  acted fairly in cancelling his policy and they should pay him additional  
compensation of £100 and remove his policy cancellation from his insurance record.
Hastings didnt agree  and so Ive been asked  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings tried to take a premium payment from Mr Bs account, but there wasnt enough 
money in his account. They wrote  to him saying they try to take it the following week, plus an 
additional default charge,  from the card held on their records which had been used to pay 
the deposit.  
Mr B said hed had enough money  in his account  to pay for the premium,  and the card was 
his daughters and they shouldnt have tried to take money from it without permission. When  
the premium went unpaid from that card,  Hastings  wrote  to Mr B and said they would cancel 
his policy  unless he paid the premium plus default charge too. And if they did cancel it they 
would charge a cancellation fee of £45.00.  When Mr B didnt reply they cancelled  his policy  a 
week later and demanded the outstanding balance, which by then they said was about  £100.
Mr B complained that he hadnt received their letters, but he hasnt explained why, and as 
Hastings have shown  from their records that they were addressed correctly and that they 
sent them, I cant hold them  responsible  if he didnt  get them. 
He wasnt happy  that they had tried to take the payment from his daughters card.  But 
Hastings showed  us a screenshot of the information  shown  to customers when they make a 
payment online.  This explains that the card may be used for future payments, and so it 
seems that Hastings were  entitled  to use Miss Bs card. Mr B also questioned the amount 
Hastings said he owed.  He said that Hastings couldnt tell him how much hed owed and 
why, when Mr Bs daughter asked them on his behalf. He was also unhappy  that, while he 
was reasonably querying the amount, Hastings threated  to instruct debt collectors for an 
amount he felt he didnt  owe.
Ref: DRN26091492Mr B had changed the car on his policy a few months earlier and this had increased his 
monthly premium. Mr B appears not to have appreciated that, and Hastings havent shown 
us that they explained  to him they had recalculated his premium. I dont think they should  
have cancelled his policy without clearly explaining what he owed and why. Overall  I think 
that the information that Hastings did give Mr B about what  they say he owes has been 
confusing and contradictory. They told Mr B different incorrect  amounts for his outstanding 
premium balance, in various letters, including the cancellation letters. And the balance  had 
escalated due to charges.  The adjudicator felt that despite what Hastings had said in 
response to this complaint and the previous  correspondence it wasnt clear what he owed. 
She thought  that if theyd calculated the premium correctly and collected the right amount he 
would have had enough money in his account when they tried to collect  the premium by 
direct debit. 
Hastings agreed  to write off what they said he owed,  though even then they gave him 
different amounts for that. And they offered him £25 compensation. They  also accepted  that 
they shouldnt  have continued to chase the debt while his complaint was ongoing. I think that 
they should have been able to explain clearly to him how much he should have owed when 
his payment was due, before the other charges  were added on and they cancelled  the 
policy. But they didnt  do that and were  too quick to cancel.
I can see that Mr B has found  the matter very stressful. He was also upset to realise  that 
hed been driving without  insurance for a day. I think that Hastingss  offer of compensation 
and waiving the debt owed is not enough to compensate for the distress and inconvenience 
Hastingss actions have  caused him. And so I agree  with the adjudicators view that Hastings 
should waive any debt,  pay him £100 compensation, in addition  to the £25 already paid, and 
remove any notice of cancellation from his insurance record.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and 
I require Hastings Insurance Services  Limited  to do the following: 
Waive any outstanding debt Mr B has, 
Ensure that record of cancellation  of Mr Bs policy is removed from any internal and 
external databases, 
Provide Mr B with a letter confirming that the cancellation was as a result of their error 
and not any error by him, and 
Pay Mr B further compensation of £100 for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26091493Hastings must pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Hastings consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr B how much they have  taken off, and give Mr B a 
tax deduction  certificate  if s/he asks for one, so s/he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2609149