K821x#15complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited  did after she made a claim on her legal 
expenses insurance  policy. 
background
Some years  ago Mrs K was involved in a car accident. In 2015  solicitors acting for her 
contacted Amtrust wanting cover for a claim for personal injury  and other  costs.  Amtrust said 
as proceedings  hadnt been issued it wouldnt agree to Mrs Ks solicitors pursuing  the claim 
under the terms  of the policy claim but appointed  one of its panel solicitor firms to do so. 
Matters progressed but Mrs K had concerns  about  the actions of the solicitors  which  she 
raised with both the solicitors and Amtrust. It followed these up with the solicitors who looked  
into her concerns and ultimately accepted there  had been failings. They  agreed  in January 
2018 to pay a total of £1000 in recognition of the impact on Mrs K of these. 
As Mrs K then had further concerns she raised a complaint with Amtrust. She said she was 
unhappy that at the outset of the claim she was told she had to use its panel solicitors.  And 
she said that when  she raised concerns with Amtrust about their actions it refused to allow 
her to use an alternative firm which she felt was unreasonable. 
Amtrust said the decision on choice of solicitor at the outset was in line with the policy  terms. 
And it said when Mrs K asked about changing solicitor it had sought to resolve  matters  by 
engaging with senior management at the panel  solicitors. It accepted  the matter had taken 
some time to move  forward  but said there were a number of reasons for this  however there  
had been delay on the part of the solicitors for which compensation had already been 
offered. 
Our investigator thought Amtrust had acted fairly in appointing panel solicitors when the 
claim was first made.  But he noted Mrs K had asked  to change  solicitors  in February 2017. 
And by then proceedings in relation to the case had been issued. So Amtrust should have 
advised her that under  the terms of the policy  she could now look to appoint her own 
solicitors. He noted compensation had already been provided for what the solicitors then got 
wrong but thought Amtrust should  pay her £300.  And if Mrs K did now want  to appoint her 
own solicitor he thought Amtrust should  cover any additional reading in costs they charged.  
Mrs K didnt agree. She said the compensation the solicitors had provided related to the 
period before their initial complaint in early 2016. And she said because she hadnt been 
able to change  solicitors the policy  indemnity limit had continued to be spent on the panel 
solicitors. The amount remaining wasnt enough  for an alternative firm to now agree to take 
the case on and her position  had been  prejudiced as a result.  Amtrust didnt provide any 
comments. So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the policy terms which in relation to choice of solicitor say: 
Ref: DRN21860402If you wish to appoint your own solicitor  you will only be able to do so when proceedings 
need to be issued, and then only if your request is made in writing to us, and that we are 
satisfied that they can handle  the claim, and that they agree to our standard  terms for non-
panel solicitors.
In this case I dont think  legal proceedings needed  to be started at the point Mrs K made  her 
claim. And Ive not seen evidence to show there  was a conflict  of interest or that exceptional 
circumstances applied  (the case doesnt,  for example, appear to be particularly complex). So 
I dont think Amtrust did anything wrong in not agreeing to the appointment of Mrs Ks own 
solicitors at that point.  
Mrs K then had significant difficulties  in dealing with that firm and its acknowledged it didnt 
provide the level of service she could have expected. However, the actions of that solicitor  
arent something we can consider (as Mrs K is aware this is a matter  for the Legal 
Ombudsman). And from the information Ive seen it appears Amtrust did take reasonable 
steps once it became  aware of these  issues. I can see it engaged with the panel  solicitors 
and sought to move matters forward. 
However, I agree with our investigator  that when Mrs K had further concerns and asked to 
change solicitors in February 2017 Amtrust  didnt  deal with that correctly.  As proceedings 
had by then been issued  then under  the terms of the policy (and the law) Mrs K did have the 
right to choose her own solicitor. So that should  have  been explained to her. I cant  of course 
be sure Mrs K would  have taken up that option  but given her clear dissatisfaction  with the 
panel solicitors I think its likely  she would  have pursued this. 
So Ive gone  on to think about what Amtrust needs to do to put that right. I appreciate Mrs K 
continued to have difficulties with the panel  solicitors. But although shes said the 
compensation thats been offered doesnt  cover  this period I dont think thats right. The 
response to her complaint from the solicitors says the compensation relates to the period 
since her previous complaint. In any case I think further concerns she has about what  the 
solicitors did during this time  and how to put that right - would be something for them rather 
than Amtrust to address. 
And while I recognise Mrs Ks concerns about  the indemnity  that has been spent ultimately 
her claim did continue  to progress during this time. I cant know  whether or how it would 
have been progressed differently if Mrs K had appointed  her own solicitors.  But under the 
terms of the policy  Amtrust  will only pay for the reasonable  costs the solicitors incurred. So I 
dont think shell have  lost out in terms of the indemnity  available under the policy. 
What I do think shes  lost out on is the opportunity  to appoint  her own firm. So it seems to 
me its that loss of opportunity  Amtrust  needs  to compensate her for. Given  her claim did 
continue to progress   and that any outstanding  issues she has with the conduct of the panel  
solicitors would be for them to address  I think the £300 our investigator recommended  is 
the right amount in this case.  
Its not clear whether  Mrs K is now intending  to appoint her own solicitors. But if she does I 
agree with our investigator that Amtrust  should also cover any reading in costs.  The case will 
have progressed since February 2017 and these costs are likely to be higher than they 
would have been if Mrs K had been given the opportunity to appoint her own solicitors at that 
point. 
Ref: DRN21860403my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited will need to put things right by 
paying Mrs K £300. It will also need to pay additional reading in costs  if she does now 
appoint her own solicitors. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2186040