K820x#14Complaint
Mrs J complains about the re-mortgage application  on her buy-to-let property. She says Accord  
Mortgages Limited arranged a mortgage for her on a product that she did not agree to. She 
complains this product  gave more commission to the different parties acting on this mortgage. 
 
Background
In 2018, Mrs J asked  a broker (Ill call L) to source her a buy-to-let re-mortgage deal. 
L approached Accord as the lender. 
On 11 May 2018 Accord issued a Key Facts  Illustration (KFI). This was for a loan amount of 
£266,665 on an interest rate of 2.31%, fixed for five years.  Based  on a property valuation  of 
£460,000. 
A valuation  was carried out on Mrs Js property on 31 May 2018.  her property was down-
valued at £425,000. Based on this, Accord could either offer Mrs R a lower  loan amount or a 
product with a higher Loan to Value (LTV) limit that came with a higher interest rate. The 
following offers were issued to Mrs J:
Offer A: Loan amount  of £255,000 on an interest rate of 2.31%, fixed  for five years.  60% 
maximum LTV.   
Offer B: Loan amount  of £266,666 on an interest rate of 2.73%, fixed  for five years.  65% 
maximum LTV.  
Mrs J says she accepted  offer A and received  a completion statement in August 2018 on 
those terms. But, argues Accord arranged the mortgage on offer B terms without her 
agreement. Accord  says that it acted on the instructions  of L who asked to proceed with 
offer B  that allowed Mrs J to borrow more.
An investigator looked into things and originally  upheld  this complaint on the basis  that 
Accord could only evidence that Mrs J accepted  the terms of offer A. 
Accord disagreed  with the investigator. It said it acted on instruction for offer B. This didnt 
originally change the investigators  view. But Accord provided a recording of a call that took 
place between Mrs J and L in July 2018. The investigator felt that both options were  clearly 
presented to Mrs J during  the call and that she accepted the terms of offer B. L subsequently  
communicated this to Accord  who acted on these instructions.  
Mrs J disagreed with the investigators findings, she said that further  conversations took 
place that superseded the call. Because an agreement has not been  reached, the matter 
has been passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
inconclusive, as some  of it is here, I reach  my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that 
is, what I consider is more likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.  
Ref: DRN25946292Mrs Js mortgage was being arranged by her broker (L), who as an intermediary, was acting 
on her behalf. Its service was provided on an advisory basis  and Accord was approached as 
a suitable lender.
As this complaint  has been brought against the lender Accord, I can only consider whether it 
has acted fairly during  this re-mortgage  process. I will not be commenting on the advice  
offered by L. 
However, where a conveyancer is acting on behalf of both the lender and the borrower,  
some of its actions will fall under  the responsibility of the lender. But only work being  carried  
out on behalf of solely  the lender. The lender will not be responsible for actions being carried 
out solely on behalf of the consumer or things the conveyancer  has done for both the 
borrower and the lender. 
Accord presented two formal offers to Mrs J. The terms were different to that in the KFI due 
to the down valuation of the property. Because a KFI does not form part of any 
offer,  contract  or agreement  to lend, its not unusual  for the terms of the formal  offer to differ 
once a valuation  has taken place - especially when  the property has been down-valued. 
Following the valuation inspection, L called  Mrs J to discuss matters.  L explained the down-
valuation and clearly  presented  both options  available to her. The difference  in interest rates  
and monthly payments were highlighted and Mrs J chose to proceed with offer B. L 
communicated this to Accord. Not all lenders require a signed offer acceptance  from the 
borrower and Accord  has confirmed its not within its requirements. So, it didnt  do anything 
wrong by accepting Ls verbal instruction. 
Mrs J says that further communication took place following this discussion. And, because the 
completion statement  referred to the terms of offer A  thats  what  she expected to receive. 
Ive looked at Accords contact notes and cant see that it was further told that Mrs J wanted 
to proceed with offer A. So, I cant say it did anything wrong by releasing the funds for the 
larger loan amount. I say this because it acted according to the instruction of L. 
It is clear though that there has been some confusion during the application process.  What  I 
need to consider is whether Accords done  anything wrong and what  impact,  if any, its 
actions has had on Mrs J.  
Two offers were recorded on file and it appears  the conveyancers  were under the impression 
that the mortgage was going  ahead on offer A terms. This product didnt come with free legal 
fees. The conveyancers  sent the wrong Certificate of Title and Request For Advance  (COT) 
to Accord and an incorrect completion statement to Mrs J on 22 August 2018.
Because Accord and L had it noted  that Mrs J wanted to proceed  with offer B, they liaised 
with the conveyancers  to get things  sorted  in time for completion on 30 August 2018.  A call 
took place on 29 August  2018 between L and the conveyancer. L confirmed that a new 
product was chosen in July, that came with free legal fees. As a result,  the COT was rectified 
the same  day and Ive seen a copy of the updated  completion statement. The loan of 
£266,666 was subsequently  released to Mrs J on completion on 30 August 2018. 
Ref: DRN25946293Mrs J says that around this time, she received a call from the conveyancers.  She says she 
was asked to agree  to offer B that came with free legal fees but there was no mention of a 
higher interest  rate. Ive considered what Mrs J has said, but Ive not seen any record of this 
call to understand exactly how the conversation  went. Whilst its possible the conveyancer 
was unclear on which product Mrs J wanted  and it asked for clarity  right before completion, 
its not the role of the conveyancer to discuss or advise on different product terms, including 
interest rates. 
In any event, Im satisfied that during  the application process the key terms of both offers  
were outlined to Mrs J  both in the form of written offers  and verbally over the phone by her 
broker. So even if the conveyancer couldve been  clearer, I cant say this impacted her in 
any way. And, for the reasons Ive explained  above, Im satisfied Accord  acted on the 
instruction of L and their knowledge that Mrs J had agreed to offer B.
So, based  on what Ive seen I cant say Accord did anything wrong by arranging  the re-
mortgage in line with offer B. 
My final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020. 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2594629