K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. handled her claim under  her travel policy when  she sustained a 
serious injury whilst on holiday in Europe.
background
Miss M travelled abroad intending  to stay from July to September 2018. On the second day 
of her holiday, 6 July 2018, a glass panel fell on her whilst  she was in the shower. She 
sustained a large cut to her leg, which required stitches, and had ruptured her Achilles  
tendon, which required an operation  to repair it.
Miss M told Mapfre. Her treating doctors told her they couldnt  do the operation and she 
would need to go to the mainland. Mapfre also asked Miss M for the documents  it required,  
and whether the hotel was accepting liability for causing Miss Ms accident. The treating 
doctor also spoke to Mapfre on 9 July confirming the need for surgery,  Mapfre  confirmed the 
claim was covered but it needed the medical  report.
By 10 July Mapfre had all the information  it required and it decided the best thing to do was 
bring Miss A home to the UK for her surgery.
On 11 July, Mapfre explained the repatriation  process to Miss M. As Miss M hadnt brought 
her return  ticket, she needed to pay for her plane seat home. Miss M disputed  this, as 
initially Mapfre had told her everything would be covered. On 12 July, Mapfre waived the 
need for Miss M to pay for her plane  seat.  So it confirmed it would pay all repatriation  
including all seats  on the plane for her and her sister, plus taxis to and from the airport.
On 13 July, Mapfre talked  about the possibility of Miss M flying  home the next day. But Miss 
M said she needed  more time, as she had to visit the medical centre  before  flying. She 
consequently asked for a flight home  on 15 July.
Mapfre couldnt arrange this in time, so Miss M flew home on 16 July 2018.
Miss M believes  Mapfre delayed her flight home unnecessarily  and that it provided  poor 
service to her, leaving her unsuitable  accommodation whilst abroad.  Further Miss M said it 
caused problems  with the hotel owner because it asked her to obtain the relevant insurance 
details from the hotel owner. Lastly, Miss M said her claim was then delayed after she 
returned home.
Mapfre agreed its communication with her could have been better and offered  her £300 
compensation. Miss M remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us.
The adjudicator didnt uphold it. Miss M disagreed so her complaint has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Ref: DRN24151512First, I have no doubt the accident  and injuries Miss M sustained  were deeply  distressing 
and painful. And that it was awkward  and difficult dealing with crutches in her chosen  
accommodation. However, Mapfre didnt cause any of this and so whilst I can understand 
how upset Miss M was about  the entire incident,  Mapfres responsibility is merely apply the 
terms of its policy appropriately.
That policy provides for assistance in such circumstances, as Miss M found  herself  in and to 
repatriate her, if appropriate.
The accident  happened  on 6 July and Mapfre offered to bring Miss M home  on 14 July, a 
mere eight days later. I dont consider  that was delaying matters, as its always  necessary for 
medical assistance companies to obtain the relevant medical  evidence  to ensure repatriation  
was the correct thing to do taking into account all the circumstances. Further, it was Miss M 
who felt she needed  more time in order to go back to her treating doctors  and so 
consequently, her flight home was delayed until 16 July.
Almost every travel policy requires the policyholder  to have bought a return flight back  to the 
UK. Here Miss M hadnt done  that. So I dont consider Mapfre did anything wrong in initially  
asking her pay for her plane seat. Thats  a usual occurrence in situations where no return 
ticket has been  bought.  I do understand  that Mapfre first said to Miss M that everything  was 
covered. And so I think  Mapfre did the right thing in waiving the obligation  for Miss M to pay 
for her plane seat home. But I consider  that to be a considerable benefit to Miss M.
Mapfre acknowledged especially once Miss M came  home,  that its communication  with her 
and the processing  of her claim could have been  better. Hence, it offered Miss M £300 
compensation. I consider this to be reasonable and in line with what I would have decided 
Mapfre should pay Miss M, had it not offered this to her before her complaint came to us. 
Therefore, I dont consider Mapfre should pay any further compensation.
In her complaint to us, Miss M outlined how difficult her accommodation abroad was given 
she had to use crutches. Like the adjudicator,  I cant see that Miss M mentioned this in her 
communications with Mapfre  at the time. Miss M chose her own accommodation before the 
accident. Theres no term in Miss Ms policy that obliges Mapfre to have moved her to 
different accommodation.  So considering Miss M hadnt told Mapfre about her difficulties  
with her accommodation and since theres  no policy obligation for Mapfre to have changed it, 
I dont think Mapfre did anything wrong  here.
I also dont consider it was wrong  for Mapfre  to ask Miss M to get the appropriate insurance 
details of her hotel and whether it was accepting  liability  for her accident.  I can understand 
this might have caused some unpleasantness, necessitating a password to be put on Miss 
Ms claim. But I think that upset is adequately  covered by Mapfres offer of compensation. 
And its now up to Miss M to decide  if she wants to accept  this if she hasnt already.
my final decision
So for all these reasons,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019
Ref: DRN24151513Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2415151