K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) havent dealt with several issues relating to her
credit card account in a fair and reasonable way.
background
Mrs H successfully applied for a credit card with MBNA in 2005. Following the financial crisis
in 2008, she said she experienced financial difficulty. Mrs H said this was made worse due to
her ill health and a downturn in business  as she was self-employed. Mrs H doesnt believe
MBNA provided her with support during  this time and she said they increased  her credit limit
which made the situation worse.
Concerned with Mrs Hs payment history, MBNA  said they called Mrs H on several
occasions over the years  to talk about  her payment history and financial circumstances.
They said in 2015, they requested information  concerning her incoming and outgoing
costs because they wanted to assess her situation. However they said they werent provided
with this information until late 2015.
Once Mrs Hs financial  circumstances had been  made clear,  it was determined she had no
disposable income and she was unable  to make any payments to the account. MBNA
decided to suspend  the account and all further interest and charges. At the time of doing so,
the outstanding balance  was over £3,400. MBNA  issued a default notice in December 2015
and they subsequently  decided to end Mrs Hs credit agreement. In March  2016, MBNA sold
Mrs Hs debt to a third party, who I will refer to as G.
In November 2018, MBNA contacted  Mrs H and said due to an error in its notice of sums in 
arrears letter  (NOSIA),  issued  in 2012,  they would refund all interest and default fees from 
May 2012 to November  2018. The total amount of the refund  was over £3,300. MBNA paid 
the refund  amount directly  to G.
Unhappy with this, Mrs H complained to MBNA in 2018 and said they:
-were irresponsible  for increasing her credit limit to from £3,000 to £3,900;
-did not treat her fairly  during her times  of illness and financial difficulty;
-should refund the interest and charges  prior to 2012;
-shouldve paid the refund, issued in 2018,  directly to her rather than G;
-sold the debt to G for the incorrect amount.
In its final response,  MBNA said they made attempts to find out about Mrs Hs financial
circumstances but this was not received until November  2015 and at that point they acted
and suspended the account. They also said under the terms of the agreement,  they were
right to pay the refund to G because they were the legal owner of the debt.
Unhappy with their response, Mrs H referred the complaint to our service.  Our investigator
said they were unable to investigate  the points regarding the credit limit increase and the
fees charged prior to 2012.  This is because they had been made out of time. For the
remaining complaint  points, the investigator believed MBNA  had acted fairly.
Mrs H disagreed so the complaint was referred  to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2019  and I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
Ref: DRN25290462reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold
Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly though, I note Mrs H has commented  on the general actions of banks during the
financial crisis, and said they operated in a culture of greed. Mrs H has also said she felt the
interest and charges were disproportionately  high.  It is worth  pointing out that it isnt my role
to oversee the banking sector as a whole or to determine a general rate at which interest
and fees should be charged. Such matters might  fall within  the sphere of the financial
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. My role deals with individual  complaints and their
own merits, which includes assessing  whether MBNA has acted fairly and reasonably, and in
line with the terms  of the account.
refunding charges prior to 2012
MBNA has not given  their consent for our service to consider the charges applied to the
account prior to 2012. There are certain  rules which give us the power to look into
complaints.
Where a business hasnt  consented to us looking into a complaint, I generally  cant do so if
its referred to us more  than six years after the event  being complained about. If it is more
than six years, I may be able to do so if the referral has been made no more  than three
years since  the complainant should  have known they had cause for complaint.
As Ive noted, Mrs H first complained about her account charges in 2018. So any charges
applied to the account prior to 2012  were more than six years before  she complained. MBNA
sent monthly bank  statements to Mrs H which outlined the fees and charges to her account.
MBNA records  also show Mrs H was refunded  several late and over the limit fees in 2010.
Although I have no further information about what  happened here, based on what I can see
it appears to me likely that those refunds resulted from conversations  between  Mrs H and
MBNA about  the charges.  So the point at which Mrs H ought reasonably to have been aware
that she had cause to complain  to MBNA  about the charges would have been around the 
time the refunds were  made, and therefore doesnt  enable me to deal with charges from 
more than six years ago.
The rules  do allow us to look at complaints made  out of time if it was a result  of exceptional
circumstances. I understand Mrs H was suffering from ill health and this would have been  a
very difficult time for her. I appreciate complaining  about charges to her account is unlikely to
have been her priority.  However I can see she has been in contact with MBNA  on several
occasions prior to 2012 to discuss her account  so I think it wouldve been  reasonable for her
to raise the issue of the charges to MBNA, if she was unhappy.  On this basis, I am unable to
consider this part of Mrs Hs complaint.
increasing the credit  limit
MBNA has also said they dont consent  to us looking into Mrs Hs complaint point regarding
the increase of her credit limit. The same rules apply as set out above  so I wont  repeat them
again.
MBNA havent been able to provide evidence of the exact date or the reasons why the credit
limit was increased. Theyve said it was increased  before 2008  but Mrs H believes it was
around 2011. I have  seen  statements from late 2010 and the credit limit was £3,900 so I am
Ref: DRN25290463satisfied the increase happened before that time.
Whether the credit limit was increased 2008  or in 2011, it is clear  it was more than six years
ago. Again, Ive considered whether it has been three  or more years since Mrs H ought
reasonably to be aware she had cause to complain. For similar reasons as outlined  above,
Im satisfied it has been more than three  years and there are no exceptional circumstances
which would allow me to look into this part of the complaint.
support during times of financial difficulty
I am sorry  to hear Mrs H experienced significant periods of ill health and financial difficulty. I
appreciate this would have  been a difficult time for her and her family.
In circumstances  of financial difficulty,  I would expect MBNA to treat Mrs H positively and
sympathetically. Every persons circumstance is different meaning there can be no
prescribed solution as to the best form of assistance MBNA should  provide. However  in
doing so, I wouldve expected MBNA to ask relevant  questions  in order  to assess Mrs Hs
current situation and take appropriate action.
I have seen Mrs Hs statements between 2011 and 2016 and it is clear she struggled with
making payments  to her account.  I say this because she rarely  met the minimum payments
and there  are several occasions were  payments  were returned.
Records show in June 2011, Mrs H made MBNA  aware that she was struggling to make
payments because she was sick and she had suffered a bereavement. Mrs H has told our
service more information about her illness but she says she didnt provide the full details to
MBNA. Given  the seriousness  and sensitivity of her health, I can understand  why she didnt
tell MBNA  the details  of her situation. However without this information, MBNA  wouldnt have
been aware of the extent of Mrs Hs illness and any subsequent impact on her current and
future financial circumstances.  MBNA  has said had they been  told the details of her illness
and the impact it was having, they wouldve referred her to their specialist department and I
believe they wouldve  done so.
Nevertheless, I do believe there was enough  information for MBNA to know Mrs H was
experiencing financial difficulty. I know they tried to get more  information from her and this
information wasnt forthcoming, however I do think they couldve stepped in sooner and
taken some form of action, sooner than 2015,  to support Mrs H.
However even if MBNA had acted sooner, I am unable to say what  action they wouldve
taken at that point.  For example, they may have  decided to suspend the interest  on the
account for a short period of time  which I can see theyve done in 2015.  Alternatively they
may have  taken more  long term action and set up a repayment  plan over a set period  of
time. No matter what action they wouldve taken, Mrs H wouldve still owed MBNA the
outstanding debt.
The refund issued to Mrs H in 2018, due to the incorrect information in a NOSIA in 2012,  has
meant all fees and charges applied to the account  were refunded  from 2012.  So the only
charges to consider are those applied before 2012  and Ive already explained I cant look
into this. However it is worth mentioning that MBNA  are entitled to charge interest and fees
as per the terms and conditions of the account.
The refund in 2018 has now substantially  cleared  Mrs Hs debt owed to G. Had it not been
Ref: DRN25290464for the error  in the NOSIA, Mrs H wouldve still been  liable for the full debt.
Overall, I do believe MBNA couldve stepped in earlier to assist Mrs H in her times of
financial difficulty. However given the refund in 2018, I cant  say Mrs H has been financially
disadvantaged in this respect. So I wont be asking MBNA to do anything further to put
things right.
the sale of the debt
MBNA sold Mr Hs debt to G and according  to the terms of the agreement, they are
entitled to do so. Mrs H has asked MBNA to confirm the amount her debt was sold to G. In
circumstances where  businesses choose  to sell a debt to a third party it is not uncommon  for
it to be a different  amount from the actual account balance.  MBNA has said theyre not
willing to share this information  with Mrs H as its commercially sensitive and I think this is
reasonable. I dont  consider a fair resolution  of the complaint requires the disclosure  of this
information.
refund paid to the third party
Mrs H is unhappy MBNA  paid the refund,  issued  in 2018, directly to G. There  may be
circumstances where  I might say it wouldnt be reasonable for MBNA to do this. For
example, if the outstanding balance was less than the refund or if Mrs H was subject to a
bankruptcy order and it would  be necessary to pay the bankruptcy  trustee.
Mrs H said she had been paying a pound a month  to G towards the debt. This meant  at the
time of the refund in 2018, the balance remained more  or less the same as to when it was
sold in 2016. I am satisfied MBNA  checked  the balance with G before paying  the refund to
them and as there was still an outstanding balance, in excess of the refund amount, I believe
it was reasonable  for MBNA to pay the refund directly to G. Due to the refund, the debt
amount has significantly  reduced and Mrs H said the remaining balance has now been
written off meaning her debt has now been  cleared. So I cant say MBNA has done anything
wrong here.
response to my provisional  decision
Both parties  were invited  to respond to my provisional decision. MBNA had no further 
comments to make.  Mrs H raised several  points but to summarise,  she said she believes the 
actions of the banks and the lack of intervention  by the financial regulators caused  the 
financial crash  and caused her and other  people to suffer financial difficulties. In relation to 
the specifics of her case, Mrs H maintains MBNA were wrong to increase her credit  limit as it 
made her financial circumstances worse and they didnt provide her support during her times 
of illness, bereavement  and financial difficulties. She said it was unacceptable for MBNA to 
take several years to identify the error with their NOSIA. Lastly Mrs H believes MBNA didnt 
pay G the full refund  amount but only the amount  the debt was sold for, which she believes 
is unfair.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I thank Mrs H for her comments, I 
consider them to be the same points she raised  from the outset of her complaint, which I 
Ref: DRN25290465have addressed in my provisional decision. So I dont  think  it is necessary to repeat my 
findings. 
Ive decided to reach  the same outcome as my provisional decision and for the same  
reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2529046