K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out or increased  
in 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000.  Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
The PPI that started  before 2000  was joint cover in case either  Mr or Mrs S couldnt work  
due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The PPI taken and increased in 2000  covered 
Mr S only.  For the joint policy, Lloyds hasnt been able to provide any sales  papers. But this 
isnt surprising given  how long ago that PPI started. So this doesnt,  on its own, make me 
think Lloyds most likely did something  wrong or mis-sold that PPI.
The PPI started or was increased at the same time as Mr and Mrs S took or increased their 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs S have said they didnt realise they had PPI and they dont believe 
they wouldve  knowingly  agreed to it. But given how long ago the mortgage and mortgage 
increases were taken,  it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr and Mrs S didnt remember everything  
that happened at those  times vividly.
Also, for the PPI that started in 2000, Mr and Mrs S signed a C&G Payment Protection Plus 
proposal form. This form was just for the PPI and separate from anything Mr and Mrs S 
signed at the time for the borrowing itself. And when the PPI was increased later that year, 
Mr and Mrs S signed another PPI proposal  form. So I think  Mr and Mrs S were most likely  
aware at those times that they were taking out the PPI and agreed to take it. With all this in 
mind, what  Mr and Mrs S have said isnt enough  to make me think they didnt also agree to 
the PPI that started or increased earlier, for which we dont  have sales  papers. Also overall 
what I have doesnt  persuade me Lloyds most likely added or increased the PPI on each of 
these occasions  without ever asking or telling Mr and Mrs S.
A February  2000  mortgage quotation, under  the heading insurance, set out the cost of 
C&G Payment Protection  Plus as a monthly cost separate from the other monthly 
mortgage costs. Taking into account also the separate proposal forms Mr and Mrs S signed  
in 2000 for the PPI, on balance what I have  makes me think Lloyds likely presented the PPI 
to them  on those occasions as an insurance  separate from the mortgage itself - and as 
something they had a choice about  taking.
For the earlier PPI, having  thought about all Mr and Mrs S have said, with all Ive said above 
in mind, in particular the time that has passed,  what I have isnt enough to persuade me 
Lloyds added the PPI without giving  Mr and Mrs S a choice about it.
Mr and Mrs S have  said Lloyds didnt give them advice or recommend they take the PPI. But 
if Lloyds did recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, Lloyds had to do more and check  the PPI 
was right for them. And Lloyds thinks it mightve recommended  the PPI. So I think  its fair to 
assess things on that basis  which places on Lloyds more  responsibility for the sale.
Ref: DRN25265652But based  on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think  the cover  
was right for them. For example they were eligible for the cover and the covers limits and 
exclusions wouldnt have stopped Mr or Mrs S making a successful claim on the cover  if the 
circumstances arose.  And the cover helped protect  a mortgage  a significant and long term 
liability secured  on Mr and Mrs Ss home. Also the PPI wouldve paid out for up to a year for 
a successful unemployment or disability claim,  which I think is longer than Mr and Mrs S are 
likely to have been entitled to receive work sick pay at full pay from their employers.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I cant  say they didnt  want this type of cover  because  I havent seen 
enough to make me think they didnt choose to take it out. And, for the reasons  Ive already 
given above, it seems like the PPI wouldve  been useful if something went  wrong.  Taking 
everything into account, I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
Mr and Mrs S off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ss points, including theyve said about  a relative who had 
to wait six months for a PPI payment. But Ive explained the reasons why what  I have makes 
me think Mr and Mrs S agreed to the PPI. Entitlement to the PPI benefits  here wouldve 
started after two months. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S wouldve  been  able to manage in the 
meantime  and that if they suffered a work absence for a longer time the benefit wouldve  
been useful in their circumstances. Mr and Mrs S have also said their family  couldve helped 
pay their mortgage instead.  But other peoples circumstances and ability  to help can change. 
With all this in mind  and for the reasons Ive given, these points dont change my decision.  
Im grateful  to Mr and Mrs S for the prompt replies  theyve  given  to all our inquiries 
throughout our investigation of their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2526565