K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains that her building insurance claim for water  damage was badly handled by 
Elite Insurance Company  Limited (has ceased writing  new business but continues to fulfil 
existing contracts of insurance) causing  her poor service, distress and delays. 
background 
Mrs G first took out her policy  with Elite in October  2014. In July 2015  she made a claim to 
Elite as a plumber had caused water damage  to her home. The claim was accepted and 
Elite appointed its specialist claim handlers  who in turn appointed contractors to carry out the 
necessary repairs. The works undertaken were  of a poor standard and there was poor 
communication and delays.  
Mrs G complained to Elite. It agreed  to replace  the contractors with new ones to advise  and 
conclude the outstanding  works and it issued its final response to her complaint in November 
2016. Although  pleased  that new contractors were  appointed, Mrs G was unhappy with the 
outcome of Elites investigation so she complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Gs complaint  and recommended that it was upheld. She 
thought that there had been poor workmanship, poor customer service,  avoidable delays, 
and a failure to offer the family  alternative accommodation. She recommended  Elite pay   
Mrs G compensation of £1,200 for the trouble and upset its handling of her claim had caused 
her and her family. Our adjudicator explained  that she was only able to look at matters up to 
and including  the date Elite had issued its final response letter  in November 2016. She did 
note that, despite  the appointment of new contractors, there appeared to be ongoing 
problems with communication  and progress. So she explained that if Mrs G remained 
unhappy with the way the claim continued to be handled from November 2016  onwards then 
she would  have to make a new complaint. Both Elite and Mrs G accepted our adjudicators 
findings. 
Mrs G complained to Elite again in May 2017. She said her floor remained bumpy and the 
kickboards under the kitchen units had been  poorly installed. She said she signed the job off 
only because she was so desperate for the claim to end. She said she wanted compensation 
of £500 and an update  on Elites attempt to recover the cost of her claim from the third party 
insurer (the insurer for the plumber that had caused  the damage) because  she wanted  her 
policy excess returned. 
Elite issued its final response to Mrs Gs second complaint in December 2017. It apologised 
for the inconvenience  it caused Mrs G as a result  of the poor service it provided.  It said (the 
second) contractor had agreed to pay her the £500  compensation for the further stress shed 
incurred since it became involved in her claim.  It also said the third party  recovery action  was 
ongoing and that it would  update her if successful.  
Unhappy with Elites  response,  Mrs G complained  to this service for a second  time. She said 
she wanted the £750 excess  shed  paid returned,  compensation for the increased cost of her 
home insurance since making the claim and for the delays,  distress,  poor performance, lack 
of communication  and general inconvenience shed suffered.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Gs second complaint. Although initially reluctant to 
complain about  the quality  of the floor repairs, it was clear to our investigator that Mrs G 
remained unhappy with the repairs so she asked  her to get her own repair  estimate for 
Ref: DRN27973722making good the sub-standard parts of the floor. Mrs G couldnt  obtain a quote for remedying 
just part of the floor. She was told by the contractors  she contacted  that it would be difficult  
to life parts of the floor without damaging others  and to obtain a satisfactory  match in colour 
given that the floor had been down  for over a year. The only quoted Mrs G was able to 
obtain was to replace the whole floor for £4,653.00.  
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Gs complaint  be upheld in part. She said that Elite 
should appoint  an independent assessor  to inspect the floor and, subject to their findings,  
Elite should  either appoint  a new contractor or pay Mrs G a cash  settlement so she could get 
her own repairer to carry out the works. She thought the £500 compensation Elite had 
offered Mrs G (through the second contractor)  was reasonable in the circumstances, as was 
what it had told Mrs G about the progress of the third party  recovery.  So she didnt think 
there were grounds to recommend Elite repay Mrs Gs policy excess. Finally, she said that 
Elite had been able to show  her how itd calculated Mrs Gs policy  premiums and she 
thought itd done so fairly  and in line with its own underwriting criteria. She didnt think  that 
Mrs G had been treated  any differently from any other of Elites customers or singled out in 
any way. 
Elite accepted our investigators findings and put forward the name  of an independent expert 
it could appoint. Mrs G replied to say she accepted  our investigators findings  in relation to 
her complaints about her policy premiums and the third party  claim.  She also accepted  that 
there should be an independent  inspection of the floor and she forward  her own suggestion 
of who that might me. 
But Mrs G disagreed that (subject to the inspectors findings)  Elite should choose to appoint 
another contractor  or determine the amount of any cash settlement. She said she distrusted 
Elite so her expert should calculate  how much  of the floor needed  replacing  and that Elite 
should then pay her whatever percentage of her repair estimate her expert believed 
appropriate to get the floor to an adequate state  of repair.  She said the £500 compensation 
had been offered by the contractor but shed not received it and thered been no 
recommendation that Elite itself should  pay her any compensation. She wanted Elite to pay 
her £1,000 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it had caused  her in addition  to 
the £500 offered by the contractor. Mrs G later said she agreed to Elites suggested expert.
 
Our investigator looked at what Mrs G had said but didnt change  her mind. She said Elite, 
its appointed  claims handlers and contractors were one and the same so she wouldnt be 
recommending compensation as if they were separate entities. She said she thought that 
compensation of £500 remained fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs G asked for her complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both Mrs G and Elite accepted our investigators findings in respect  of the part of the 
complaint that related to her policy premiums and the third party recovery  claim (which  
includes the associated  request that the policy  excess be refunded), I dont intend to address 
these aspects of her complaint within this final decision. They are resolved. This decision will 
concentrate on the appointment of an independent  expert to assess  the floor and whether 
Mrs G has been offered fair compensation in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN27973723poor quality  fitting  of the floor
I can see that there were  issues  around  the workmanship and delays in the re-fitting  of     
Mrs Gs floor by the second  contractor.  That isnt in dispute. There were  concerns about the 
screed (both  its consistency  and how it was installed) and with the wooden  floor cupping 
after it was re-laid. Mrs G accepted and signed for the repair  in April 2017 not because she 
was happy with the quality of the installation but because she was frustrated with the entire 
claim and the two years it had taken. She thought  the replacement  floor still hadnt been 
installed to an adequate standard but accepted there were no major  defects.  
Our investigator asked  Mrs G to obtain  a quote from a fitter to repair the substandard areas. 
Unfortunately she was unable to do so because the fitter explained there was a risk of 
damaging the other parts of the floor in the process. Mrs G was only able to get a quote to 
replace the entire floor.
Since this services involvement,  both Mrs G and Elite have agreed to the appointment of an 
independent expert  to assess  the floor. Elite has proposed the name  of expert  it thinks is 
suitable. Mrs G initially  suggested an expert  be appointed by another  ombudsman scheme 
who would  determine  whether the second contractors work had been to an acceptable 
standard but later accepted that Elites  expert  should be instructed. 
I appreciate that Mrs G has experience of situations  where three experts are proposed from 
which one is then selected but this service would only usually make  a recommendation of 
that nature if the issue in dispute  was particularly technically contentious. I think  that the 
expert proposed  by Elite is a fair way to proceed  in the circumstances of this case. I expect 
that whoever is appointed to outline  what,  if anything, is required to remedy any identified  
problems.
I also appreciate that Mrs G has lost all trust in the ability  of Elite to conclude  the repair to an 
adequate standard and, understandably, she expresses reluctance for it to carry out any 
repairs recommended  by the expert. But our investigator recommended  that Mrs G be given 
the option (should repairs be what the expert recommends) to accept a cash  settlement to 
cover the costs of appointing her own repairer  to carry out the works.  Elite accepted that 
recommendation. So I expect the expert  to identify whats needed  to remedy  any problems 
and to outline what steps are needed to remedy  them  and for Elite to give Mrs G the option 
about how she wants to proceed.  
Should Mrs G request a cash settlement Elite can establish the cost of the recommended  
works but, in calculating  what to pay Mrs G, it should use publically  available rates (not any 
discounted in-house rate). This would make sure Mrs G received a fair cash settlement to 
put towards using  her own repairer. 
compensation for trouble  and upset
I can only look at trouble and upset caused to Mrs G since November 2016.  She has already 
been compensated for trouble and upset caused  to her up to that date. 
Elite is responsible for the actions of its appointed  handlers  and contractors, both of which 
act on its behalf.  This services approach  is that insurers  and their sub-contractors are the 
same entity.  For the purposes of awarding  compensation  we dont distinguish between  the 
actions of the different parties involved in a claim. Elite accepted that the second contractor 
Ref: DRN27973724had fallen short in its handling of the reinstatement of the floor. And it agreed to Mrs Gs 
request that she receive compensation of £500,  asking  the second  contractor  to pay it. 
Its not in dispute  that Mrs G suffered  inconvenience and upset from November 2016 
onwards  particularly between  January and April 2017. But Mrs G and her family have been 
able to utilise the space in their home  since the floor was re-laid  (in January 2017) so the 
day to day operation of family life hasnt been affected. So I think that the compensation of 
£500 offered by Elite through its contractor is fair in all the circumstances. If this complaint 
had passed across my desk without  an offer of compensation having been  already made  its 
unlikely that I wouldve  awarded Mrs G any more than the £500 already offered. 
I know that Mrs G subsequently asked Elite for a further payment  of £300 from the second 
contractor and that she asked this service  to make an award of £1,000 specifically  against  
Elite. For the reasons  Ive given, I dont think awarding any further  compensation  or 
compensation against specific parties  - would  be fair. 
Its unclear to me whether  Mrs G has been paid the £500 offered  there are references  on 
the file to the fact she has but also to the fact she hasnt. Elite should check  with the second 
contractor that it has paid Mrs G and, if it hasnt, make sure that she is. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Elite Insurance Company 
Limited (has ceased writing new business  but continues  to fulfil existing contracts of 
insurance) to do the following:  
Appoint an independent, suitably qualified, expert to inspect Mrs Gs floor and identify 
the steps needed to remedy any issues that are discovered;
Subject to the findings in the experts  report, allow Mrs G to choose  whether it should 
appoint new contractors to carry out the repairs or to accept a cash settlement.  Any 
cash settlement should not be based  on in-house discounts usually available but on 
publically available rates. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2797372