K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold his travel  insurance policy. 
background
Mr A says he missed his flight abroad when the car he was travelling in to the airport got a 
flat tyre and/or went  into heavy traffic. Mr A claimed on his travel insurance  with Aviva for his 
new flight costs. Aviva declined the claim as there  was no evidence to support why Mr A had 
missed the flight.  
Our investigator thought Aviva fairly declined the missed departure claim.  In response Mr A 
said Aviva  had mis-sold the policy as on the phone  it told him that if anything happened to 
him and he couldnt  make  a journey he would be covered. He said he wasnt told to read the 
policy. 
Our investigator considered Mr As mis-sale complaint separately to the claim complaint. 
She thought  Aviva hadnt mis-sold the travel  policy to Mr A.
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said he paid extra to be covered 
for everything and thats what Aviva told him. He thought the call happened  after Aviva  
automatically renewed his policy premium.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is just about whether Aviva mis-sold the travel insurance  policy  to Mr A. Ive 
made a separate decision about Mr As claim complaint, which  Ive not upheld.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Avivas records  show  Mr A took out the policy on-line in October 2017. Theres  no evidence  
the policy was sold over the phone.  Theres no evidence at that point that Aviva told Mr A if 
anything should  happen to him and he couldnt  make a journey he would be covered.
There is evidence that Aviva sent the policy documents  to Mr A. The policy is clear that there  
are conditions, limitations and exclusions for the missed departure cover, and all the types of 
cover provided by the policy. 
Mr As policy  renewed in October  2018. His missed  departure  happened in December 2018 
so that was the relevant  policy year. In September 2018 Aviva  had sent Mr A his policy  
renewal invitation  electronically (as he requested). Aviva's letter told Mr A he needed to 
check the cover still met his needs  so he had the chance to read the policy terms before  the 
policy renewed. 
Mr A has recently said the relevant call happened after Aviva  automatically renewed his 
premiums. So the call must have been after October  2018.  
Our investigator listened to the call recordings Aviva had for November and December 2018, 
before the claim was made. In the calls Mr A adds people to his policy  and in the November 
Ref: DRN22624742call Mr A asked  Avivas  representative if it his baggage  was covered, what travel  disruption 
covers, and what happens  if he gets stuck overseas. 
In the call Aviva said his baggage wasnt covered but he could buy cover as an add-on, 
travel disruption is designed  to cover his cancellation due to strikes,  industrial action,  severe 
snowfall or pandemic,  and if he gets stuck overseas and its not his fault Aviva would cover 
him for as long as it takes him to get back to the UK. Mr A bought  both optional  covers.  The 
policy terms for the optional covers  were sent to him which  detail the conditions, limitations 
and exclusions for the cover.
Theres no evidence in those calls that Aviva told Mr A that if anything should  happen  to him 
and he couldnt  make a journey he would be covered.  Mr A couldnt  reasonably  understand 
from those calls that Aviva gave him such advice. 
Our investigator told Mr A if he could give us a date when he thinks the relevant phone call 
happened, and it wasnt the date of the calls we already have, we could  ask Aviva for the 
call. Mr A hasnt given us any more  details about  possible  dates of the call.
Even if Aviva had wrongly told Mr A that if anything should happen to him and he couldnt 
make a journey  he would be covered  I dont  think the wrong information would have 
disadvantaged him. The policy terms Aviva relied on to decline his claim are standard in 
most, if not all, travel insurance policies.  Mr A would have found  it very difficult  to get a travel 
policy where the insurer didnt want some  proof  of what caused his delay for a missed 
departure claim.
Im satisfied that Aviva didnt mis-sell  the policy to Mr A.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2262474