K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained via a third party that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited  has unfairly 
pursued her for a debt it was servicing for another company. 
background 
Mrs T took out a credit card with a bank and arrears accrued on the account of just under 
£3,000. Mrs T agreed to pay the debt off at the rate of £19pm via a third party in an informal  
arrangement. 
In September  2016 the bank sold the debt on to another company who appointed Link 
Financial to service the account. The company wrote  to Mrs T in October  2016  explaining  
the position and said that it would abide  by the financial  arrangement in place. 
In January 2017 Link Financial received a letter from the third party that had been  forwarding 
payments on behalf of Mrs T informing it that the arrangement had ended. 
In September  2017 Mrs Ts representative  wrote  to Link Financial asking for a number of 
documents including the credit agreement. Link Financial contacted the bank and asked for 
further information and documentation about  the debt. 
In December 2017 Link Financial wrote  to Mrs T saying that at the current  time it wasnt  able 
to provide the credit agreement and that the debt was unenforceable until it could.  Link 
Financial said that Mrs T was still liable for the debt. 
Further letters were sent by Mrs Ts representative disputing the balance and asking for 
copies of statements, documents relating to the management of the account, the notice of 
assignment and Mrs Ts financial standing at the time the credit card had been taken out. 
In July 2018 Mrs Ts representative made  a formal  complaint to Link Financial on the 
grounds that the debt was unenforceable and the credit card account itself had been  opened 
incorrectly, irresponsibly and unfairly as Mrs T had been a vulnerable consumer. 
Link Financial didnt  uphold Mrs Ts complaint. It said that although it couldnt comply  with 
the section 77/78 Consumer Credit  Act 1974  request to provide the credit agreement  
meaning that the debt was unenforceable it was still able to ask Mrs T to clear  the debt with 
an affordable payment  plan. 
Link Financial also said that the legality of the credit  card agreement was a matter for the 
bank rather than itself to address. 
Mrs T was unhappy at Link Financials response  and complained to this service via her 
representative. Mrs T representative also complained that Link Financial had been 
aggressive in its communications with Mrs T and it was acting unfairly in pursuing the debt.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.  He said it was a 
matter for the courts to determine whether a debt was unenforceable but this service could 
look at whether a company had acted  fairly.
Our investigator said that Link Financial had contacted the bank and asked for various 
documents and while  some had been  provided  the original agreement  wasnt.  Link Financial 
had then confirmed  it was treating the debt as unenforceable  which  was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN27778802However, as Link Financial was still able to ask informally about paying  off the debt our 
investigator didnt  think  it had acted incorrectly in doing so.
Our investigator said that Mrs Ts representative had requested  documents  that werent  
relevant to Link Financial  as the debt had been purchased several  years  after the credit card 
agreement had been taken out. Link Financial had properly provided  the notice of 
assignment to Mrs T.
Our investigator said that Link Financial wasnt responsible for any complaint about 
irresponsible lending  and that would be a matter  for the bank  to answer.
Mrs T disagreed with our adjudicators view.  Her representative said that due to the very 
limited information that was available about  the credit card account it was unfair for Link 
Financial to pursue  it. Mrs Ts representative  raised Paragraph 5 of the OFT Guidance  on 
S77, S78 and S79 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  This says that the OFT would  first 
expect that a creditor or owner of a debt to take steps to check if there  was an agreement  in 
place and in particular whether there  was in fact any monies outstanding under it.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ts representative  has raised  a number  of issues  on her behalf.  I looked firstly at 
whether the credit card account  should have been opened at all as Mrs T was financially 
vulnerable at the time. I have  taken  into account  that the decision to lend was made  by the 
bank and not Link Financial and so I cant reasonably say Link Financial holds any 
responsible for that.
I accept that there isnt much paperwork available about the credit  card account and, where 
evidence is missing or contradictory, then I have to decide what  I think is the most  likely 
thing to have happened taking into account the evidence I do have available. Here, as 
outlined in the letter of complaint sent to Link Financial on behalf of Mrs T in July 2018,  Ive 
seen that it isnt disputed that Mrs T opened  the account.  And Ive also seen that at the time 
the debt was sold by the bank Mrs T had agreed informally to make monthly payments to 
clear the outstanding amount. I think this shows Mrs T had accepted the debt was hers and 
Ive seen no evidence  that Link Financial has added  any charges or interest to the debt.
Ive seen that Mrs Ts representative requested  a copy of the original credit agreement and 
this couldnt be provided by Link Financial. Its a matter for the courts to decide whether or 
not a debt is enforceable so Im not able to comment on that, but I dont  think Link Financial  
has tried to mislead Mrs T about  having a copy  of the document when her representative  
asked for it. And, as on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mrs T owed this debt which 
Link Financial was servicing on behalf  of the company  to which  it had been assigned.  I dont 
think it has acted unfairly  in asking her to repay  it.
Ive seen that Mrs Ts representative has said that Link Financials contact with her has been  
aggressive in tone. Ive looked at the contact notes provided by Link Financial and can see it 
has phoned her on one occasion  when  she informed it that she had instructed a third party 
to act for her. It also appears from the notes that it wrote once to Mrs T in February 2017 
Ref: DRN27778803when it was notified the informal payment arrangements  had ended, and wrote a further  two 
letters in response  to letters from her representative in December  2017  and July 2018. 
I cant reasonably say on the evidence I have seen that Link Financial wrote an excessive 
amount of letters to Mrs T nor, from the letters that I have seen, were the contents of these 
letters inappropriate or aggressive. Mrs T also hasnt provided any details of contact or 
copies of letters which she says were harassing and bullying.  
So for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2777880