K820x#14complaint
Mrs I says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by Mrs I in April 1999. The policy 
was added to Mrs Is credit card account  after she sent in an application in the post. The 
policy and card ended in 2006.
Mrs I says she thought the PPI policy was a compulsory requirement.  She thinks  Bank of 
Scotland mis-sold it to her.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs I disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Is case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Is complaint for the following reasons:
 I am persuaded  Bank of Scotland made Mrs I aware that the PPI was optional and she 
chose to take it. I say this because  I can see on the application form she completed, 
that she signed separately  to have the insurance, in a separate box. She could  have 
not signed the box and not taken the insurance. So after seeing this, I think that Mrs I 
was given a choice to have PPI on the form and she agreed to it by signing for it. 
 As this was a postal  sale,  Bank  of Scotland didnt provide advice to Mrs I so it didnt 
need to ensure  that the policy was suitable  for her. But it did have to ensure that the 
information it gave  Mrs I was clear, fair and not misleading  so that she could make an 
informed choice  about the insurance. 
 When looking at the information provided on the form, I am not sure that it did. But 
even if it had provided  clear information to Mrs I, I dont  think it would have made  a 
difference as I think she would have taken the PPI policy  anyway. 
 I say this because,  when  looking  at Mrs Is circumstances at the time, I think  she would 
have found the cover  useful. She has told us that he was entitled to some  sick pay with 
her employer at the time of sale but wasnt sure how much  this was along with around 
£4000 savings. But the policy would have provided  a useful benefit  in a difficult time 
and for longer. The policy would have paid in addition to her sick pay, for up to an 
extended period of 12 months if she couldnt  work. So I think she would have found at 
least some benefit in having  the cover.
Ref: DRN27347712 I dont think on this occasion Mrs I was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
within the policy such as those given for pre-existing medical  conditions.  
 Im not sure if the costs were clearly  disclosed to Mrs I. But I think she wouldve taken 
the policy  anyway even if they were  for the same reasons  that I have already given. 
The PPI policy  was competitively  priced and affordable.   
So I think it unlikely Mrs I would have made a different  decision  if better  information had 
been provided. So I dont uphold her complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2734771