K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that when  he gave  online instructions to make  a payment Bank of Scotland  
plc (BoS) sent the money to the wrong  account.
background
In October  2018 Mr B set up and made two online payments to the same recipient  but the 
money never  arrived. When he told BoS about  this, it told him that the money had been sent 
to an account  with different details to the ones he had given and these had been  changed  by 
the bank. It said it would refund the money.  Later that day, BoS called Mr B to say that it 
hadnt made a mistake  but the owner of the account he had paid the money to was in the 
process of switching the account to another bank  and so it had forwarded the money to the 
new account. It has paid Mr B £68 for providing  him with the wrong  information  and to cover 
the costs of his calls.
Our investigator didnt  think BoS had made a mistake. It had acted on Mr Bs instructions 
when it made the payments but she said Mr B had entered  an incorrect  account  number  
when he set up the payments. BoS had tried to get the money back  but it wasnt successful. 
She thought  the £50 the bank had paid for giving him wrong  information  when Mr B first 
contacted him was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He thought that BoS should  be able to recall  the money from the wrong 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B set up a new payee and made  two online transfers to it in October 2018. He provided 
the sort code and account number, together with the name of the account when he made the 
transfer. But the money never arrived in the account  of the intended recipient.
I have looked  carefully  at Mr Bs online activity on the day he set up and made the 
payments. I have also checked  the invoices that Mr B was trying  to settle. I find that he 
provided the correct  sort code. When he entered the account number he reversed two of the 
digits. The account  number Mr B was trying  to pay started with 05 but instead he entered  50.
Im satisfied that the funds were sent to the account  as Mr B instructed and I cant conclude  
that BoS made any mistake when it did this. I accept  that when Mr B first contacted  BoS 
about the problem it told him that the account  details  had been changed by the bank and 
said it would  refund the money to him. But when BoS investigated  the matter  further,  it found  
that the account that Mr B had transferred his money to was in the middle of being switched 
to another bank.  The money was automatically  forwarded on to the account  at the new bank. 
BoS explained this to Mr B on the same  day that he had contacted it. I understand that this 
was confusing but BoS has already paid Mr B £50 for giving him the wrong information and 
£18 to cover  the cost of his calls. I consider this to be fair.
When money is transferred to a wrong  account by mistake then Id expect Mr Bs own bank 
to take reasonable steps to contact the receiving  bank  to try to recover the money on a best 
endeavours basis. I find BoS did try to recall the money that same day but it was 
Ref: DRN23205522unsuccessful as the receiving bank said the money was no longer in the account.  I cant 
reasonably ask BoS to do any more.
I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling  and frustration but Im satisfied that BoS hasnt made 
any mistake.  It acted on his instructions when it made  the payments. I also find that it 
followed the right procedures in trying  to get the money back but it wasnt unsuccessful.  I 
know Mr B will be very disappointed but, for the reasons Ive given, I cant ask the bank to 
refund him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2320552