K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about the period for which AXA Insurance UK Plc agreed to pay for 
alternative accommodation (AA) for him and his family after he made a claim under his 
buildings insurance  policy following  an escape of water at his home. 
background
In May 2017, Mr K suffered an escape  of water  at his home. He made a claim under his 
policy which  AXA accepted. 
Mr K said he intended to carry out wider refurbishments to the property. It was agreed that 
AXA would therefore provide a cash settlement to reflect the cost of the repairs  which were 
necessary due to the escape  of water. AXAs  loss adjuster drew  up a scope of work for the 
repairs. The loss adjuster acknowledged that Mr K and his family would need to move  into 
AA while  the repair work  was being carried out.
Mr K said that he owned another  property  which was normally let to tenants.  The loss 
adjuster agreed  that this could serve  as the AA and that AXA would compensate Mr K for the 
rent (£3,900 a month)  that he would forgo as a result of living in the property himself.
The cash  settlement for the buildings claim was eventually agreed in June 2018. AXA also 
said it would  pay for AA for nine months as it was satisfied the repair  work arising from the 
escape of water could  comfortably have been completed within that time.
While he was happy with the cash settlement for the buildings  claim,  Mr K didnt accept the 
offer of AA payments  for nine months. He said he had moved into AA at the time of the 
incident and it wasnt until thirteen  months later that that he received the cash settlement. He 
said it was only then that he could begin  the repair work and so this was when the nine-
month period  should start. He considered that AXA should be paying  for AA throughout this 
entire 22-month period.
AXA wouldnt agree  to increase its offer. It said that the damage caused by the escape of 
water had been relatively modest but Mr K had decided to undertake significant other works 
which were not related  to the claim. It said it would only pay for the period of AA which would 
have been necessary for the repairs which were covered by the policy.  It was satisfied  that 
these repairs would  have  taken an absolute maximum of nine months to complete. It noted  
that Mr K hadnt received an interim AA payment as he had been expecting. It therefore 
arranged for the total AA amount of £35,100  to be paid to Mr K and it paid a further  £800  in 
compensation for the errors which it acknowledged had been made by its loss adjuster in its 
handling of the claim.
Mr K was unhappy at AXAs response. He continued  to feel he should be paid for a longer 
period of AA. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:  
The loss adjuster  attended the property  in May 2017. The loss adjuster noted that the water 
had caused damage to the kitchen which would necessitate  strip out works.  The damage 
had also spread to the hallway, lounge, dining room and study, including  to the carpet. The 
Ref: DRN20253822loss adjuster noted that Mr K wished to carry out renovations to the property and so was 
keen to negotiate a cash settlement. The loss adjusters report stated:
The initial  drying works will require a full removal  of the kitchen cabinets and floor 
coverings / chipboard sub floors across all affected rooms.  The furniture will need 
removing into a storage  facility in order to prevent secondary damage from drying 
therefore the property will be without use of the entire ground  floor area. It will 
therefore be necessary  for the Insureds family to re-locate for a period of 3 to 6 
months.
Although Mr K apparently moved  out of the property straight away, my reading  of the report  
is not that the property was immediately uninhabitable but that it would  become  
uninhabitable once the strip out took place.
In June 2017, the loss adjuster provided Mr K with a schedule  of the repair work which  would 
be covered under the policy so that he could obtain  quotes from his own contractors for the 
cost of this work. It asked  its drying contractor  to arrange with Mr K for the property to be 
stripped out. 
Mr K didnt allow the drying  contractor to strip out the property.  In October 2017, he provided  
the loss adjuster with his contractors estimated repair  costs  based on the approved 
schedule of work. Mr K apparently then arranged for the strip out works  to be carried  out by 
his own contractor in December 2017.
Later in December 2017, the loss adjuster attended to assess  the reasonableness  of Mr Ks 
claimed repair costs. Because the anticipated  cost of settling the claim had increased 
significantly since the loss adjusters  first report,  AXA became concerned. It visited  the 
property in January  2018 and challenged some of the costs which were being claimed.
There followed a period of discussion between AXA and its loss adjuster over the handling of 
the claim.  AXA clearly  felt the loss adjuster hadnt  exercised sufficient control  over the claim.
In March 2018, AXA made an offer to cash settle the claim. This was considerably less than 
the amount which Mr K had been  seeking.  Mr K rejected  the offer.
There followed further discussions  between AXA, its loss adjuster and Mr K. In June 2018, 
AXA made an improved  offer which Mr K accepted, except for the amount which should be 
payable for AA. AXA therefore paid the agreed  amount, which  meant Mr K could start the 
repair work.
With respect to the AA, although the initial estimate was that the covered repair  work  would  
mean the property  would be uninhabitable  for a period of three to six months, the loss 
adjuster later conceded that the necessary work  might be more extensive than was first 
thought and could take six to nine months under a worst-case scenario. It was on this basis 
that AXA offered  to pay for nine months of AA. 
Mr K thinks  that AXA should cover  the cost of AA from the date of the incident in May 2017 
until the cash settlement  was paid in June 2018,  and that it should  then pay AA for a further 
nine-month period until March 2019.  This would mean AXA would pay for 22 months of AA 
in total.
Ref: DRN20253823I dont agree with Mr Ks argument. It seems  that Mr K took decisions about where to live 
and when to progress the repair work, to which the loss adjuster  acquiesced.  But I cant see 
there was any assurance given by AXA that it would  cover  the cost of AA throughout all this 
period and beyond. I consider that Mr K must  bear some responsibility  for the decisions he 
made.
It was Mr Ks decision to move out of his property immediately following the incident; his 
house wasnt uninhabitable at that time.  He could have remained in the property during all 
the time that he took to obtain evidence to support his claim. It wasnt  until the strip out 
works were undertaken in December 2017 that AA was needed.
I also have to take account of the fact that it was Mr Ks decision to embark on the strip out 
work when  he did, thus making the property  uninhabitable, even though  no settlement 
agreement had been reached over his claim and he apparently  had no money to begin the 
repairs.
And furthermore, while some of the delay between December 2017 and the settlement being 
agreed in June 2018 was due to a disagreement  between AXA and its loss adjuster over its 
handling of the claim,  it was also partly due to disagreement between  AXA and Mr K over 
the settlement  amount.  And given that the eventual cash settlement was considerably below 
the level which Mr K had been seeking, I cant say that it was unreasonable for AXA to 
dispute the claim. I therefore consider that Mr K needs to bear some  responsibility for the 
fact there was a delay  between his house  being made uninhabitable  and him receiving a 
cash settlement for the repair work.
Furthermore, I dont consider that it would have  taken nine months from June 2018 to 
undertake the repair works covered under the policy.  The estimate provided by the loss 
adjuster was that these repairs could take up to nine months to complete in a worst-case 
scenario, and this included  the time needed  to strip out and dry the property  which should 
have already taken  place  by June 2018.
Having said that, it is clear that the loss adjuster handled the claim poorly. This resulted in 
AXA reviewing the claim in early 2018. As a result, there was a period of two or three  
months where very little was done  to progress matters. As Mr K was still seeking to 
negotiate his cash settlement  at this time, I imagine he would have found this very 
frustrating. AXA has offered £800  compensation  for the loss adjusters failings but this 
doesnt really take into account the financial loss which may have been caused to Mr K due 
to the fact that his need for AA was extended.
After taking everything into account, I think the fairest outcome would be that AXA pays Mr K 
a further two months of AA cover, which is a total of £7,800. This would mean that Mr K 
received eleven  months of AA payments from the time his property became uninhabitable in 
December 2017.  I consider  that this is a fair amount to reflect the six to nine months it would  
have taken to complete  the insured repairs, plus an additional period to reflect  delays 
caused by AXA and its loss adjuster.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision.
AXA said it was prepared  to accept my provisional decision.
Mr K said he didnt  accept my provisional  decision. He said it was clear  that AXA and its loss 
adjuster had grossly  mismanaged the claim. He said he couldnt start the repair work until he 
Ref: DRN20253824received his settlement from AXA and in the meantime he had been  forfeiting the rental 
income on his other property. He considered that AXA should  have started  making AA 
payments as soon  as he moved out of his home in May 2017 and should have continued 
with these payments  until March 2019,  nine months after it paid finally  his settlement, to 
allow time for the insured  repair work  to be carried out. He said AXA and its loss adjuster 
had confirmed the policy provided  AA cover of up to 30% of the sum assured, which he 
believed entitled  him to cover of up to £162,000, and he considered AXA was now back-
tracking on this, leaving  him considerably out of pocket.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
I have considered all of Mr Ks further  comments.  However, these comments have largely 
been addressed  already in my provisional  decision.
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that AXA and its loss adjuster had handled the 
claim poorly.  I also acknowledged that Mr K was financially  unable  to begin  the repair work 
until he received  the settlement from AXA in June  2018.
However, I also noted in my provisional decision that AXA didnt appear to give any 
assurance to Mr K that it would continue to provide AA cover  throughout the period in 
question; that it was Mr Ks decision immediately to move out of his home  even though it 
apparently was still habitable; and it was Mr Ks decision to begin  the strip out work when he 
did, thus making the property uninhabitable,  even  though he had no funds at that time to 
begin the repair work. I further noted  that Mr K had been asking for a higher settlement than 
was eventually agreed, which had contributed  to the delay in reaching that settlement. And 
I explained why I thought  it unlikely  that the insured repair work would take as long as nine 
months from the time the settlement was paid in June 2018.
In light of the above, I remain satisfied that the fair outcome  is that AXA pays Mr K a further 
two months of AA cover, which comes  to £7,800.
Mr K says he was assured by AXA and its loss adjuster  that AA cover  was available up to 
the value of 30% of the sum assured (which he believed to be £540,000). I can find no 
reference in the files to this assurance. My reading of the policy is that AA cover of up to 
10% of the sum assured could be provided,  which in this case  would mean cover of £50,000 
(because the sum assured  was £500,000). However, I dont consider that this restriction 
matters in this case because,  even with my award, the total AA payment by AXA will be 
within this limit.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require that 
AXA Insurance UK Plc pays Mr K a further £7,800.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
David Poley
Ref: DRN20253825ombudsman
Ref: DRN2025382