K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complained that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited  avoided  (treated it as if it 
had never  existed)  her motor insurance policy  and refused to pay her claim. 
background
Mrs Hs car was unfortunately stolen and she made a claim  under  her policy  with Southern  
Rock. But Southern Rock rejected her claim and avoided  her policy.  
They said that she hadnt told them her cars true value  and if she had, they wouldnt have 
insured her at all. They thought that shed either deliberately or recklessly  misrepresented 
her cars value, in order to obtain cheaper insurance, and they wouldnt refund the premiums 
shed paid. Mrs H felt that there had been  a genuine  mistake and that Southern Rock had 
been very unfair. She wanted Southern Rock to honour her policy and pay her claim. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Hs complaint should be partly upheld.  She thought 
that Mrs H had made a qualifying misrepresentation and so Southern Rocks decision to 
avoid her policy and reject her claim was reasonable.  But, because  Southern  Rock  hadnt 
shown that Mrs Hs misrepresentation had been  deliberate or reckless,  it could  only be 
careless misrepresentation  and so Southern Rock should refund Mrs Hs premiums plus 
interest.
Southern Rock didnt reply  to the adjudicators view, but Mrs H didnt agree and so the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings 
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Southern  Rocks actions  have had major financial consequences for Mrs H. 
She lost her car but still had to continue making  the repayments on her car finance 
agreement and would have to pay the finance company the large  final outstanding balance.  
This has clearly caused her a great deal of stress and anxiety, and she says that it has had 
an adverse effect  on her health. She wants Southern Rock  to honour her claim. 
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain  remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA  describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show that they would  have offered the policy 
on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
Ref: DRN27242402If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless,  and the insurer can show that they would 
not have offered the policy at all, or that they would  only have offered it on different terms, 
they are entitled  to avoid the consumers  policy.  This means they will not have to deal with 
any claims under it. They may also keep  the premiums paid. 
If the misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer  must  show  that 
they would  not have  offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. But they 
should also return the premiums paid. If they would still have offered the insurance if the 
consumer hadnt  made  the misrepresentation, but on different terms and would have 
charged a higher premium for it, the insurer will have to consider  the claim and settle it 
proportionately if they accept it.  
When an insurer claims that a consumer misrepresented information thats important to the 
insurer, we check whether the insurer  asked  the consumer a clear question about  that 
information when  they took out the policy. 
Southern Rock claimed that Mrs H deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her cars value. 
They said as follows. When she took out the policy shed  told them her car was worth about 
£7,000 but in fact it was worth over £50,000. 
Southern Rock didnt insure  high value cars at all. So, if theyd known her cars true value at 
the start,  they wouldnt have insured her at all. And theyve shown us their underwriting 
criteria to confirm this. They said that if she had entered her cars correct  value, the online 
comparison website she bought the policy through would have automatically excluded 
Southern Rock from quotes  it supplied her. 
Southern Rock said that the application she completed online asked  the question: What is 
the estimated  value  of the vehicle?  and that she answered 7000. I think that this is a clear 
question. So I have to consider whether Mrs H took reasonable care to answer  that question. 
Mrs H has given various explanations about what could  have  happened. Only about  a few 
weeks after she made her claim,  she gave  a statement to Southern Rocks agent about the 
circumstances of the theft.  In it she said:
I understand that I insured the car for £7,000,  this was an error as the car is worth £57,000. 
I must have accidentally selected  the wrong figure  from the drop-down list when I was filling 
in the online  form.  
Mrs H later denied having  said this to the agent and claimed  that he put words  into her 
mouth and she only signed the statement at his instigation to have Southern Rock settle her 
claim faster. Nevertheless,  she did sign it and declare that the facts stated in it were  true.  
Later, Mrs H told us that she couldnt  remember the website asking the car value question,  
and that if they had asked  it she wouldnt have been able to answer it, because she didnt 
know her cars value. She said All I entered was 7000 for mileage. As even at that time I 
would not have even known the value of the vehicle myself. But this seems unlikely, as Mrs 
H had only bought her car the year before she applied  for her policy,  and the invoice shows  
that she paid over £58,000 for it then. I think it would  have been reasonable to expect her to 
estimate its value a year later and find it out if she wasnt  sure.   
Ref: DRN27242403Mrs H also felt that Southern Rock  could have changed the car value shed inserted, 
because she said that after she took out her policy she phoned them  about  driving  abroad,  
and they modified her mileage without her consent  on the amended  certificate. She felt that 
Southern Rock should have to prove that they hadnt changed what  she'd said in her 
application. 
But Southern Rock arent obliged to do that, because the premise of insurance  is that the 
consumer knows their own information  about themselves and the insurer doesnt. So its up 
to the consumer to ask questions about  information  that important to them,  and for 
consumers to answer those correctly.  But its also up to the consumer to check the policy 
documents to check that the information is correct. 
Southern Rock said that, even if there  was a mistake with the cars value at the online 
application stage,  theyd asked Mrs H to check her policy documents carefully afterwards, 
and theyd made it clear  that if the information  was incorrect  it could affect her policys  
validity. But she hadnt told them about the mistake.  
Ive looked at her proposal form and it says:
IMPORTANT: This is the information you supplied and on which your Insurance  is based. 
This statement of information must be retained and read together with your Policy Booklet, 
Certificate of Motor Insurance and Motor  Policy Schedule. You should also ensure that the 
information you have  provided in this statement is accurate. If it is incorrect  in any way, 
please tell your intermediary immediately. Failure  to supply  accurate and complete  answers  
may mean Your Policy  is invalid and that it does  not operate in the event of a claim.
The form also says, under Declaration & Disclosure: 
You are required by the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act to take 
reasonable care to answer all questions asked honestly, accurately and to the best of Your  
knowledge and that any other information given either verbally or in writing by You, or on 
Your behalf, at the time You applied for insurance  is also complete. Failure  to supply 
accurate and complete answers may mean Your Policy is invalid and that it does not operate  
in the event of a claim.
A similar warning  is given  in the policy itself.  So I think that Southern  Rock  did give warnings  
about the effect of not checking the documents carefully. Mrs H said they didnt actually post 
the policy documents to her but had only uploaded them on her portal. But we think that is 
enough, particularly  as I see that she could  have asked for hard copies of them  if she 
wanted. 
In fact Mrs H said that she did check her policy documents, but because  her cars mileage 
had been 7000, she thought that the 7000  figure in the policy certificate  referred to that 
mileage, rather than to the car's value, because it didnt have a £ sign. 
But I think that the policy documentation  is clear  about the cars value. The proposal  form 
says in paragraph 2 in the section Your vehicle, Value (inc accessories) 7000.  
Ref: DRN27242404And the policy schedule in the section headed CAR DETAILS  says Estimated value 7000. 
I do see that in the same  section of the policy schedule it also says Estimated annual 
mileage 7000 , so that figure does appear in two places, but I dont think  that what  is said 
about the cars value is unclear. I think that the documents  do clearly say that the cars value 
was 7000. 
Mrs H also felt that Southern Rock  should  have checked the cars  value  and noticed  that the 
figure there was too low for her car, which was a high end make  and fairly new model. She 
said that Southern Rock  should have done  this when she applied  for the policy, by checking 
the entered value against the cars  make  and model and registration, as she understood 
some other insurers did. Or they should have checked and noticed it later when she phoned 
them to make changes  to her policy. But instead  they only noticed it when she reported the 
theft to Southern Rock and their staff member asked her why the value was so low. She felt 
they were looking  for reasons to reject her theft claim and that if they had noticed  the 
mistake earlier,  the cars insured value could  have been corrected and she would have been 
willing to pay the difference  in premiums to insure  her car at the correct value. However that 
wouldnt have happened, as Southern Rock have  shown  us that they wouldnt  have  insured 
a car of that value at all. 
Southern Rock say that if Mrs H had entered her cars true value the online comparison 
system would have excluded Southern Rock as an insurer from quotes supplied to her. But 
in any event, this organisation cant stipulate what systems or processes an insurer should 
use when allowing someone  to buy a policy. Thats a matter  for their commercial  judgment 
and we dont interfere with that. All we expect is that they ask clear  questions,  and, as Ive 
said above, I think that Southern Rock did that. They  asked for the information they needed  
to assess their risk in offering insurance.  Its the consumers responsibility  to answer those 
questions correctly, and not for the insurer to check or question that.
Taking all of the above evidence together, I think that Southern Rock were  not unfair to 
decide that Mrs H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation about her 
cars value  when she took out the policy. And theyve shown us evidence from their 
underwriting criteria that if Mrs H had not made  this misrepresentation they would not have 
offered her insurance  at all, so Im satisfied that Mrs Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
I do see that Mrs H is likely to be disappointed  with this decision,  because she wants 
Southern Rock to pay her claim under  her policy. I think  its very unfortunate that her car was 
stolen from outside  her home, and that a mistake has had severe financial consequences for 
her, and that its caused her great stress and anxiety. But, in all the circumstances of her 
case. I think that Southern Rocks  decision  to reject her claim and avoid her policy  was 
reasonable and in line with the policy. 
However, under CIDRA, Southern Rock cant retain the premiums Mrs H paid, unless they 
can show that her qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate  or reckless. But Southern  
Rock havent shown us any evidence that she either  intended to mislead Southern  Rock  
about her cars value  or was reckless in what she disclosed about it. I think that the overall 
evidence suggests  that she made a mistake when  applying  for the policy  and didnt then 
check the policy documents as we expect a reasonable consumer to do. 
Ref: DRN27242405And under CIDRA, if a qualifying  misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation, it is treated as being  careless.  And so I dont think  that Southern  Rock  
have been reasonable  in refusing to refund her the policy premiums she paid up to the date 
theyd decided to avoid her policy, plus interest  since then. And so I agree with the 
adjudicator that Southern Rock should  refund her policy premiums plus interest as below. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  above, it is my final decision that I partly uphold  this complaint and I require 
Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited  to do as follows:  
Refund to Mrs H the premiums that she paid under the policy, adding interest on that 
amount at 8% simple per annum from the date of voidance  to the date they make the 
payment to her.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
If Southern Rock consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from interest, they should tell Mrs H how much they have taken off and give Mrs 
H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2724240