K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the premiums charged  to her by esure Insurance Limited for her car 
insurance.
background
Mrs B had had her car insurance  with esure  for 10 years  it was a supermarket branded  
product. In May 2017  she contacted esure as she had bought a new car  the same  make 
and model as her old one, but newer. Her renewal  premium  in April 2017 had been £2,273. 
She had looked  at the prices on a comparison website and pointed out that esure offered a 
considerably cheaper policy.  She was offered a policy  for £659.94.  She opted to cancel and 
buy a policy  elsewhere.  But she felt she had been  considerably over charged over the years 
for the policy for her old car. She particularly felt that shed been  led to believe that her 
premiums were competitive in esures renewal  letters to her each year,  and it was only 
buying the new car which had led her to check the price. She complained  to esure  who said 
the premium was correct  and that there were a number of different factors to take into 
account.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator didnt think that esure had treated Mrs B fairly. He 
noted that it had stopped underwriting new business  for this particular brand in 2011. The 
renewal letters were  misleading in that they said she had saved  money on her car 
insurance. He considered  the quote given to her by esure and thought  that it showed that 
esure was able to offer a much cheaper policy. He said that Mrs B hadnt been given 
sufficient information  to enable her to make an informed decision each year about renewal. 
He said the fair way to resolve  it would  be for esure to refund to Mrs B the difference 
between her insurance premiums for the years 2012 to 2017 and a notional premium 
estimate of £700, plus interest.
Esure didnt agree that this was fair  it offers different policies through different  brands and 
complex algorithms are used to price each policy for each particular market.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont quote here the Insurance  (Conduct of Business) Rules that apply here, as our 
adjudicator has already  set them out to esure  and Mrs B. But I confirm  that I have taken 
them into account.  Essentially I have to consider whether the renewal  information  sent by 
esure each  year was clear, fair and not misleading.  And that esure didnt treat its customer  
unfairly by taking advantage of the inequality of knowledge between it and Mrs B.
Here Mrs B had been paying a very high premium for her car insurance over the years. I 
have seen a number of renewal letters and they all say the same thing Youve saved money  
on your car insurance. I understand esure to say that that means just the particular policy  
and refers to the fact that it had a substantial no claims  discount. But I think the customer  
reading that would  take it to imply that the policy itself is competitively priced. And thats 
what Mrs B did here. Indeed in its final response  to Mrs B esure said we try to offer 
Ref: DRN22037672competitive renewal quotes to help ensure you remain with us. And the letters  all say that 
there is nothing else to do if the customer wants  to renew. 
When Mrs B contacted esure about her policy  it wasnt until she told the adviser  that she had 
had been quoted a price of between £500  and £600  on a price comparison website that the 
adviser offered  her a policy under another esure brand, for £659.  This included breakdown 
and legal protection cover. Our adjudicator commented that Mrs B was discouraged from 
getting in touch to enquire about  the price or whether there  were  any available alternatives 
with esure.  And its clear that esures  advisers  do seem to have been  able to offer other 
policies to customers when they called up, not just those with the supermarket brand.
In response to that esure commented:  In regard  to being discouraged our staff would not be 
doing their job properly if they were  actively attempting to encourage customers to take 
insurance out under different brands regardless of who the underwriter is, especially since  
we stopped underwriting business  under  [that brand name] quite some  time ago.
Our adjudicator was suggesting that Mrs B was discouraged so far only as any esure  brand  
is concerned. We wouldnt generally tell insurers  to encourage customers to go to 
competitors  other than through  the wording in renewal letters required by the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  (FCA)  transparency  at renewal rules. But esure hasnt stopped 
underwriting this brand.  It may not be offering new policies but it continues to offer renewals 
under that brand.  When the customer rings the number  on the renewal letter  they are put 
through to esure. And esures advisers  had a policy available for sale which  seemed suitable 
and very much cheaper.  Importantly, they do seem to have been able to offer that policy to 
the customer too, regardless of them being on the supermarket branded  policy. 
Esure didnt make any effort in its renewal letters to encourage Mrs B to get in touch, quite 
the opposite. And the price of what had become a legacy policy continued to increase, 
despite the apparent availability of cheaper alternatives. So Mrs B was put in a position 
where she wasnt given  sufficient information, and/or was discouraged from finding it out, to 
enable her to make  an informed decision about whether to renew  the supermarket branded 
policy at the price offered.
Three further points  arise from that phone call  firstly that the adviser said customers were 
only offered discounts  if they rang up. Secondly that the adviser  agreed  with Mrs B that her 
current price was very high. And thirdly that the new policy  would be an esure one  no 
mention of the branding.  
I wouldnt expect an insurer to take advantage of a consumers inequality of knowledge  and 
their lack of contact to raise their price to unreasonable levels,  not borne  out by the risk of 
that particular  consumer needing  to make a claim; the costs  of servicing their policy; and/or 
their commercial requirements to make  a reasonable profit on the policy.  I think esure  did 
take advantage of Mrs B in this case.  The price had gone up considerably over the years 
and esure  was clearly  able to provide this cover to her and other customers for a much 
cheaper price  over £1,600 cheaper. 
Esure may have had commercial agreements  in place  with the supermarket not to offer its 
alternative or own branded products. But thats not what happened when Mrs B called up. 
We havent been provided with any details of the commercial arrangements  with the 
supermarket. But Id struggle to say it was fair or reasonable for an insurer  to keep a 
customer on a legacy  policy at a very high price, when there were clearly alternatives 
available that the customer could not have known about due the inequality of knowledge 
Ref: DRN22037673between the parties  and what  I think  were misleading renewal documents in the 
circumstances of this case.
remedy 
Our adjudicator proposed that we consider the premium from 2012 onwards, ie the first 
renewal after esure  ceased  underwriting new business for the brand. And he estimated a fair 
price for the policy to be £700. That seems fair to me. But esure have pointed out that the 
FCA only introduced the new transparency at renewal rules in 2017. These require 
businesses in essence to advise customers (if they have been  with the business for more 
than four years) that they may be able to get a cheaper policy  elsewhere if they shop 
around. Its saying effectively that we are asking it to apply that rule retrospectively.
Im not suggesting that that rule be applied retrospectively. The rule is intended to reinforce 
what was already required of businesses, who have  always  had to treat customers
fairly, not mislead  them and give them the information they need to make an informed
decision. The alternative policy Mrs B couldve had was available from the same advisers 
who took her call on the branded policy and was underwritten by esure. And esure  has not 
given a sufficient  explanation how the price between the supermarket branded policy  and the 
alternative offered  could  have been  so different.
I note esures view that it uses a complex algorithm to calculate  premiums based on 
hundreds of constantly changing rating factors.  So no like for like comparison can be made. 
While esure  may be able to say that the price for Mrs Bs legacy policy  was correctly 
calculated for her circumstances, and using the parameters  it sets for that policy, it hasnt 
been able to show me that its alternative policy was unsuitable. And I dont  think  its unfair to 
back calculate the premium. By using the likely  2017 premium as a fair price  for the policy, 
this would also be the likely maximum price for the policy assuming it was cheaper  in 
previous years. And the price for this policy went up every year from 2012. 
So I think the fair way of resolving this is for esure  to refund the difference  between  the 
premiums Mrs B wouldve  likely  paid for an alternative policy, estimated at £700, and what  
she actually paid under  this policy, including  credit interest, from the 2012  renewal to
cancellation in 2017. Both the legacy policy and the quote for an alternative policy included 
breakdown and legal protection cover  so the proposed refund just reflects  the difference in 
price of the actual cover  for the car. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to:
refund  the difference between the total premiums Mrs B actually paid under her 
policy with esure  including credit interest, from the 2012 renewal to cancellation in 
2017, and £700.
pay simple  interest*  at 8% per annum, from the date each instalment was paid until 
the date of settlement
*HM Revenue and Customs requires esure  Insurance  Limited  to take tax off any interest  it 
pays to Mrs B. Should Mrs B request  it, esure  should give Mrs B a certificate showing how 
much tax it has taken off so she can reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN22037674Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2203767