K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Miss R and Mr R have  complained that GE Money  Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) 
will not refund any commission it received from the payment protection insurance (PPI) 
premiums for the policy they took out with their loan in April 2005.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Miss R and Mr Rs complaint about commission.  
Thats because GE Money did not sell the policy. However, as it was the lender, it would be 
responsible for the commission element of the complaint. 
Im not upholding Miss R and Mr Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint  them, and Ill 
explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
GE Money  has given  me information  that shows Miss R and Mr Rs loan was taken  out in 
April 2005 and ended in December 2005 . So based on what Ive said above, I dont think  the 
unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer  Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment,  or 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission 
apply here.
So GE Money doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss R and Mr R paid for the 
PPI they had with their loan.
Ref: DRN20267422my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2026742