K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr S says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his card. Capital One has provided a copy of the call script that was in place at 
the time Mr S took the PPI and it shows that advisors were  required to present the policy  as 
optional, and gain consent. While I cant be certain  of how closely  the script  was followed I 
think its a good  indication of what was discussed during the call. Mr S also took the policy 
out several years after he applied  for the card. So with this in mind  I think  Capital One made 
it clear that Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had of making 
his repayments,  which included sick pay and savings. But the PPI would  have paid out in 
addition to, and for longer than Mr Ss sick pay. It would also have protected Mr Ss savings 
so they could be used towards other  essential expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN24137182my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2413718