K822xcomplaint
Mrs G has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy following a one-off incident.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cost of pet insurance tends to increase as the pet gets older, and the cost of medical
treatment increases. Other policies available in the market place will often exclude cover for
any existing medical  conditions the pet has when the policy is taken out or renewed.  So
generally ongoing and recurring  conditions arent  covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mrs G took out, will continue  to cover
any medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy  is renewed each
year. These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions
will continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums  carry on being paid. The
yearly cost of these lifetime policies  can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim
is made.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mrs G. It has
accepted the information  it gave Mrs G about  the policy wasnt as clear as it should
have been. And RSA has offered to pay her £500  compensation for the trouble and upset
shes been caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation
in the circumstances of Mrs Gs complaint.
Mrs G has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made. The claim she made  
against the policy was for a one-off incident. She would like RSA to reduce her future  
premiums. She would also like RSA to be clearer about the increasing  costs of their policies 
to all customers when they take it out.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide,
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate.
While Mrs Gs premium has seen significant increases, including an increase due to a claim  
that appears to be related to a one-off incident, I havent seen any evidence
to suggest RSA has treated her differently to how it would have treated any other
policyholder in the same position.  So, I cant tell RSA to charge  her a lower  premium going
forwards.
As we do not regulate businesses, and look at cases  on an individual  basis, I am also unable  
to tell RSA what information it must provide when promoting its insurance  policies.
I understand this situation has caused  Mrs G distress as she wasnt  expecting such  a 
significant increase  in the cost of her pet insurance  and is now finding it difficult to trust 
another insurance provider.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mrs G the information she needed  to
understand she could end up in the position she now finds herself  in. Where I find
Ref: DRN29828932something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a
consumer has lost out.
Had Mrs G not taken  out a policy that offered lifetime  cover,  shed likely have been in a 
position where she had either no insurance, or a policy that offered less cover. I think its 
unlikely better information  about the possible future costs of the policy would  have
resulted in Mrs G having cover for ongoing  conditions at a fixed  or capped  premium 
this type of policy typically didnt exist. Mrs G has also had the opportunity at each renewal 
to move to a different provider. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mrs G has 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Mrs G for the
trouble and upset  shes  been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mrs G £500  compensation is
fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2982893