K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her two payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policies.
background
Mrs K took out a mortgage with BoS in 2005.  At the same time she was sold a Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  This was a group of policies which contained  accident,  
sickness and unemployment insurance   collectively  known as PPI, as well as life and 
critical illness cover. Mrs K complains  that the PPI elements were mis-sold to her. She says 
she didnt know the cover was optional.
Mr K took out a further advance in 2006  and her previous policy  was cancelled and she 
started a new policy which reflected the increase in her borrowing.
The adjudicator thought  that the PPI policy taken in 2005 was mis-sold, but that the one 
taken in 2006 wasnt mis-sold. The case  has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint 
about the 2005 sale, but not the 2006 sale.  Ill explain why.
2005 sale
Mrs K took out a new mortgage with BoS in 2005. The sale of the mortgage  and PPI took 
place over the phone. BoS hasnt  been  able to provide a copy of the call recording so I can 
understand how it made it clear to Mrs K that the policy was optional, or how it obtained her 
consent. And it hasnt  been able to provide any call scripts which mightve shown  how it 
expected these things to be explained by their representatives. I dont  think its unreasonable  
to expect BoS to be able to provide this evidence. So, on balance, I cant be satisfied that 
Mrs K bought the policy understanding she had a choice about it. 
2006 sale
Mrs K took out a further advance on her existing mortgage in 2006. At the same  time she 
cancelled her 2005 PPI policy and took out a new one to reflect the change in lending.  
Again, BoS hasnt  been able to provide  any information from the sale, other than to note that 
the sale took place face to face in a branch. 
While I dont have any original documents from the sale, this service  has seen copies of the 
documents that wouldve  been in use at the time. I dont  have  any information to suggest the 
usual sales process  wasnt followed. On balance,  in this instance,  I think  its more  likely that 
BoS made it clear that the policy  was optional and obtained Mrs Ks consent for the policy. 
Which means I have looked at the rest of this sale to see if there  may be another  reason  why 
the policy was mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN24419692BoS recommended the policy to Mrs K. So it had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the 
policy was right for her as well as provide her with all the information  she needed to make  up 
her mind  about the policy. Looking at Mrs Ks circumstances at the time I think  that it was 
suitable. I say this because:
Mrs K was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim, such  as those 
related to self-employment;
The policy didnt cover existing  medical conditions. Its possible BoS didnt explain 
this well enough to Mrs K. Mrs K had an existing medical condition  when she took out 
the policy. But it was well controlled  and unlikely to have  caused her to take extended 
time off sick from work.  So I dont think if shed understood  fully the exclusion that 
she wouldve been put off taking the policy as a result;  
Mrs K had some sick pay from her employer, but the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for considerably longer than her full sick pay wouldve 
lasted; 
Mrs K hasnt  told us about any other means  she had to meet her mortgage  
repayments if she couldnt work. So I think the policy  offered useful  cover;
The policy was comparably priced to other  similar cover available  on the market at 
the same  time. And I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable  for Mrs K.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mrs K lost out as a result of anything  BoS mightve done wrong 
in relation to the 2006 sale.
putting things right 
BOS should put Mrs K in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI in 2005. 
BOS should:
Pay Mrs K the amount  she paid each month for the PPI bought in 2005.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, BOS  can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  BOS to take off tax from this interest. BOS must  give Mrs K a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint in regard to the policy she was sold in 2005.  But Im not 
upholding Mrs Ks complaint in relation  to the policy she bought in 2006.
Bank of Scotland plc must  pay compensation as Ive described  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Ref: DRN24419693Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2441969