K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the amount of interest  charged by Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(Tesco) when he repaid  his loan in full. 
background
In 2017 Mr H took out a personal  loan with Tesco. The loan had a repayment term of 60 
months. After approximately 16 months,  Mr H wished to settle  the loan in full so he 
requested a settlement figure from Tesco  and paid back  the relevant sum.
Mr H is unhappy with the amount of interest  Tesco has charged.  He says the charge 
included over half of the agreed interest  for the five year loan - even  though he was repaying 
it within 16 months. He says it wasnt made clear to him before taking the loan that he would 
have to pay an early interest  settlement charge and, had he been made aware,  he wouldnt 
have taken the loan as it was always his intention to repay the loan early. So he says Tesco  
has failed to properly  set out its procedure  for settling loans early and this has financially 
impacted him.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Tesco  is not required to send  a detailed 
breakdown of how early  repayment charges will be calculated when a loan is taken out. And 
he went on to say Tesco had made  it clear  on the documentation it sent before Mr H agreed 
to the loan that, if he repaid in full, Tesco would make an charge of 28 days  deferred interest 
and this may include an amount equal  to 30 days interest. So he thought Tesco had given  
him reasonable notification of the early repayment  charges.
Referring to the calculation itself, the adjudicator said Tesco  told us it calculated the 
settlement figure, including the interest  due, in line with the Consumer  Credit  (Early 
Settlement) Regulations  2004. And so he said the figure charged by Tesco had been 
calculated correctly.
Mr H disagrees  with the adjudicators opinion. He maintains  that he should have been given 
detailed calculations of the consequences of early redemption before he took out the loan. 
So this complaint has now been  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, my decision is to 
not uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr H feels strongly about this matter and my decision 
is likely  to come as a disappointment. Ill explain my reasons for reaching this outcome.
Our adjudicator previously  explained  that the early settlement figure provided by Tesco  had 
been calculated  correctly in line with the appropriate regulations  and, from reviewing the 
information available,  I agree with his view that the settlement figure was correct.  It appears 
Mr H has accepted this. 
Mr Hs main complaint point is that Tesco didnt make it clear  to him when he first took out 
the loan how it would  calculate  the settlement figure  if he repaid the loan early. He says it 
was always his intention  to pay the loan off early  he anticipated he would be looking  to 
repay it in full within 20 months. He says if he had known how the interest rebate would be 
calculated, he wouldnt have taken  the loan.
Ref: DRN27095752But Tesco didnt have to provide Mr H with detailed information about how the interest  rebate 
would be calculated. But it did have to make clear the features of the agreement which might 
make the credit unsuitable for particular types of use. 
From looking  at the documentation  Mr H was sent after his completing his application  - but 
before he signed  to agree to the loan - I can see there is a document  called Understanding 
your loan. In this document is a section  titled Is this loan right for me? and here it explains 
the loan wouldnt  be suitable if the customer wants flexible credit or credit for a shorter  
period. In this same  section it says if the loan was paid off in full early,  Tesco  would charge 
an interest charge  of 28 days  deferred interest  and it may also include an amount equal to 
30 days interest. I think these statements should  have alerted Mr H that this type of credit  
wouldnt be suitable if he was looking  to have the loan over a shorter period of time and that 
he would  be charged  additional interest  if he repaid the loan early.
So when taking  everything into account,  I think Tesco  provided  Mr H with the required 
information about the main features of the agreement and so I cant  say that Tesco has 
acted unfairly. It therefore follows  that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2709575