K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2010.  At the same time they bought  a 
PPI policy  which wouldve covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time 
if Mr C was unemployed.
Mr and Mrs C say that they felt they had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. They say they 
had no need for it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C 
disagree, so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs C dont claim that the PPI was added without their consent. Instead, they say 
that they were  led to believe  that they didnt have a choice about  it if they wanted the 
mortgage.
Nationwide says that Mr and Mrs C knew the PPI was optional and made a choice to buy it. 
Mr and Mrs C say that they were confronted with scaremongering scenarios  about what 
would happen  if they couldnt  pay their mortgage, and this wasnt balanced  by Nationwide 
examining their existing means. They also say that The way the PPI was sold and the timing 
of it firmly establishes to customers  that PPI is a requirement of the mortgage, regardless of 
any follow-up papers.
I cant know what was said at the meeting, but I accept that Mr and Mrs C wouldve been 
warned that their home  was at risk if they didnt continue to meet  their mortgage payments. I 
dont consider this scaremongering   it is a requirement for mortgage  lenders to ensure 
customers are aware of such consequences. So I dont think  this is evidence  that suggests  
Mr and Mrs C were pressured to take the PPI unfairly.
Looking at the paperwork supplied by Nationwide I can see that the PPI was clearly 
described as optional throughout. The application  form was completed electronically and 
then printed and signed  by Mr and Mrs C. It states  that Mr and Mrs C wanted PPI. 
Nationwide has also supplied a copy of what this form would look like if they hadnt  opted for 
it. So, Im satisfied it wasnt  compulsory.
The mortgage offer letter  states  clearly that the PPI is not a condition of the mortgage.  
Indeed it states  you are not require to buy any insurance through  Nationwide.  Under a 
different heading  of optional insurance it states  that Mr and Mrs C had chosen  to buy PPI. 
Ref: DRN20356102In the welcome  letter  for the PPI sent to Mr and Mrs C from Nationwide  it states Should you 
change your mind you have a right to cancel I dont think it would have said this if it was a 
condition of the mortgage to buy the PPI.
Nationwide has also supplied a copy of the renewal  letter, which was sent to Mr and Mrs C 
each year on the anniversary of the policys inception.  Again, this made it clear the PPI was 
optional and said If you do not want to continueyou have  the right to cancel.
I think the paperwork from the time of sale and afterwards made it very clear that 
Mr and Mrs C had a choice about  buying the PPI. I dont think its likely that anything  
Nationwide said during the initial meeting led Mr and Mrs C to believe differently.  And I dont 
think Mr and Mrs C were unfairly  pressured into taking the PPI. 
Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs C personal advice about taking the PPI, so it didnt have  
to check the policy was right for them. But it did need to give them  enough information so 
they could make their own minds  up about it. 
I think Mr and Mrs C at least knew that the policy was designed to cover their mortgage 
repayments if Mr C was unemployed. This much was clear from the policy schedule and 
mortgage offer, along with the cost. They may not have understood the finer detail  but I 
dont think there was anything in the terms and conditions which mightve made  it more  
difficult for Mr C to make a successful claim. So even if they didnt know  everything about  it I 
think they had enough information to make their own decision about the cover.
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs C lost out as a result  of anything Nationwide mightve done 
wrong. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows  that Nationwide  Building Society 
dont have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2035610