K821x#15complaint
Mr P complained about the decision of Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limited (MIC) to 
cancel his motor  policy and their refusal to refund the premium  he was owed.
background
Mr P obtained motor insurance from MIC through a broker. Throughout this decision  I will 
typically refer to MIC/the insurer  although some actions were  taken by the broker on MICs 
behalf. I will also refer to Mr P although his father  has been  acting on his behalf.  
A few months before the end of the policy Mr P was involved in a motor accident and notified 
his insurer. The accident was his fault which would lead to a claim to be paid potentially for 
repairs to his vehicle  as well as the third partys. When he told MIC of his accident it 
identified at least one previous accident  on his record that hadnt been disclosed to it at the 
time hed taken out the insurance.  In fact there were two claims recorded that MIC wasnt  
aware of but it seems  that it has only taken account of one for the purpose of this decision. 
Its apparent that while dates didnt match, MIC was concerned that one of the claims 
recorded may have  been a duplicate so took the safest option and disregarded it.
MIC decided that had it been aware of the undisclosed claim at the time that it offered the 
policy it would have  asked  for a higher  premium.  So it wrote a number of letters  and made 
calls to Mr P to ask him to pay the additional  premium that it calculated was owed. When it 
was unsuccessful in getting in touch  with him, MIC cancelled the policy and sent a letter  
confirming this. It also told Mr P that it wasnt going  to refund any of the premium originally 
paid, which  was owed  to him for the remainder of the year, because there was a claim  that 
needed to be paid for damage to the third partys  vehicle.
Mr P complained to MIC that he hadnt received any warning communication before his 
policy was cancelled. He wanted the remaining  premiums returned for the months when he 
wouldnt now be insured.  And he also argued that he had found  it difficult  to get insurance 
elsewhere at an affordable price and felt that MIC were responsible for that.
MIC responded explaining that several attempts had been made to contact him and it had 
been left with no alternative  but to cancel  the policy for non-payment of the extra premiums 
needed. It also said that it was allowed to retain the remaining months worth of premiums  
originally paid as it had an outstanding claim against the policy.
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint Mr P has asked this service to look at his case. 
Our adjudicator felt that MIC had made  mistakes  in how it had dealt with the dispute.  She felt 
that MIC shouldnt have  cancelled  Mr Ps policy as doing so breached  the rules laid down by 
legislation about  disclosure of information. But while  we were dealing with the case  MIC and 
Mr P came to an agreement that he would pay the extra  premium  asked for and that MIC 
would settle the claim  being made  against  it for several  thousand pounds  worth of damage. 
In doing so MIC also decided  to disregard one of the claims previously not disclosed in case 
of any possible error.  That meant  that after receiving the full premium from Mr P it had now 
refunded an amount back. As a result our adjudicator felt that all that remained was that MIC 
should adjust  its own records to remove details of the cancellation of the policy.  She felt that 
as the legislation hadnt been properly followed, and as the matter  had now concluded with 
the premium being paid,  the cancellation shouldnt  stand against Mr P.
Ref: DRN21856292MIC disagreed with this decision so the matter  has been passed  to me to make a final 
decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the outcome proposed by the 
adjudicator and will explain  why.
First of all I will deal with the issue of the original decision  of MIC to cancel the policy  and 
what led up to it. Its clear  to me that when applying for the policy  Mr P failed to disclose one, 
possibly two, previous  incidents. In fact its apparent from the call recording that he failed to 
disclose at least one other  claim but was asked about it during the call when  the call handler  
found a record  of it. When he made his latest  claim MIC found additional records  that he 
hadnt disclosed. For simplicity Ill stick to referring  to a single undeclared claim as that is all 
that was eventually held against  him. But Im satisfied that Mr P failed in his duty to answer 
questions accurately when asked. The Consumer  Insurance Disclosure and Representation 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) explains  what options an insurer has when a consumer fails to disclose  
information which would have made  a difference to the offer of insurance which they made.
MIC has shown us that the non-disclosure made a difference to the premium  they charged 
Mr P. In a case like this, where  a claim is outstanding, the Act allows  the insurer to settle the 
claim proportionately to the amount  of premium paid. That means that if the premium 
actually paid is less than what should have  been then the insurer  can withhold the same  
percentage of any claim payment it would otherwise be due to make.
In this case MIC asked Mr P for the additional  premium. And not getting a reply to several  
attempts to contact  him it cancelled  his policy. But CIDRA doesnt  allow  the insurer  to require 
payment of the additional premium. While we accept  that it may well be that paying the extra 
is the best outcome, as it allows the policy holder  to remain fully insured, we think  that its 
fair for this to be an option  that both sides agree on once the insurer has explained what the 
alternatives are. Whats  important is that the insurer cant  insist on the payment of the extra 
premium and then choose  to cancel the policy if it doesnt receive the payment.
When our adjudicator pointed this out, MIC argued that they werent able to apply the 
proportional payment approach as there was no cash sum payable  to the consumer, which  
would have allowed  them  to withhold some  of it. Having said that, I havent seen any 
correspondence sent by MIC which  attempts  to explain any options to Mr P. Only demands  
that he get in touch  and then the notification of cancellation. So Im not clear  whether, in fact, 
CIS actually  considered CIDRA at the time. But with a claim from a third party outstanding, 
and with the correct approach being for MIC to continue to insure MR P but to 
proportionately settle any claim, it could have waited and then pursued Mr P for the debt of 
any proportion of that claim that he owed.  
I dont fault MIC for how it tried to contact  Mr P. His father has said that his laptop  had been  
stolen and his mobile phone  damaged by water but I see also a record of MIC trying  to call a 
landline. The reality  is that Mr P only responded when receiving the notification of 
cancellation of his policy. I recognise  that MIC may well have faced difficulties recovering the 
money it was owed later but I need  to reflect that the Act doesnt allow it to demand extra 
money as a remedy. And in doing  so I also reflect that while not being able to get a response  
presented a problem,  if Mr P had responded, had the premium demanded of him, and 
refused to pay it, then I would still have to hold MIC at fault if it cancelled his policy  when the 
Ref: DRN21856293Act doesnt allow that. That being  the case, I dont think it fair for MIC to act in that same  way 
when its attempt to make the demand  for the premiums isnt successful. A remedy was open 
to it in accordance  with the Act both in relation to pursuing Mr P for a proportion of any 
payment to a third party and also in potentially declining to repair  his own vehicle but offering 
a cash value to him to repair  himself. 
Having said all of that Im also mindful  that the adjudicator only required MIC to adjust  its 
own records to remove the cancellation  marker.  Doing  so simply reflects  that if the correct 
procedure had been followed then the policy  would  not have been  cancelled. And, in any 
event, Mr P eventually paid the premium sought,  although I accept that this was likely  done 
for economic reasons  as it prevented  him becoming  liable  for a larger sum.
Mr P remains responsible for the accuracy  of his answers to any future insurer.
Mr P complained that it was MICs actions  that have led him to be quoted higher insurance 
premiums. Ive seen no evidence that this is the case, nor that any loss has actually  been  
incurred as a result. Mr P has a number of historic claims  and related records  that might 
make him an expensive risk to insure.  And it remains the case  that he was at fault for at 
least one non-disclosure  which  MIC has, largely, dealt with appropriately and in some  ways 
generously. That includes its own decision  to classify the non-disclosure as careless  rather  
than deliberate or reckless. Im not in a position  to judge whether it would have been 
legitimate to classify  this case  as the latter. But if it had then, the result  would have been  for 
his policy  to be voided which would have had a far greater long term consequence.
I note that Mr P obtained his insurance through  a broker and may continue  to do so having 
regard to his insurance  record.  If thats the case then its open to his broker,  and Mr P, to 
describe the true nature of the circumstances of his cancellation to a prospective insurer if 
asked. Ive ruled that technically  the cancellation  was incorrect and the record should  be 
amended. It follows that if Mr P later suffers a loss as a result of the action of MIC he 
potentially has a right to complain against MOC for the loss at that point. But, while  I dont 
seek to prejudge any outcome, I point out again that Mr Ps driving record  is likely to be a 
major factor in the price  he is asked to pay for future  insurance.
Finally, I agree that the refund that MIC has now paid is appropriate having regard to the 
position its taken  about which non-disclosure to include in its calculation. As this outcome  
followed form Mr Ps original complaint  about unreturned premiums, and this service  
becoming involved, even though the circumstances  have  changed,  and having regard to the 
technical issue around the decision to cancel the policy, this complaint is upheld in part.    
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. 
Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited (MIC) should adjust its records  to remove the 
cancellation of the policy and repay, if not done so already,  Mr Ps premium  to the value of 
£105.07 plus interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date that he paid the full 
revised premium to MIC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Ref: DRN21856294John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2185629