K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr W says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2001 it was sold 
during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr W aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding 
it to his card. Mr W has told us the PPI was added to his card without his knowledge or 
consent. I dont  know  for certain what was said at the time the policy  was sold, but FICL has 
provided a copy of Mr Ws store  card application  form.  
The form had a separate section for PPI. This section has been  signed in acceptance of the 
policy, in addition to Mr W agreeing to the card itself. As Mr W was agreeing to an important  
financial commitment I would  have  expected  him to have read over the form before signing 
in agreement with both the PPI and the card. So I think  its likely  FICL made  it clear  that 
Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr W got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mr W has told us he was entitled to sick pay from his employer and had savings so he 
didnt need the policy. Mr W hasnt been able to provide evidence  of the savings he had at 
the time.  But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ws sick pay and for longer. It 
would also have allowed him to keep his savings in place to be used towards other essential 
expenses.
 
As Ive said above  I think Mr W chose to take out the PPI  knowing the other means  he had 
available at the time so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of 
Mr Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for him if something 
Ref: DRN24897222went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2489722