K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mr W complain that Nationwide Building Society mistakenly  paid nearly £5000 
into their account. It would leave them in substantial  debt if they are forced to repay it.
background
On 1 July 2018 Miss M and Mr W sent a payment  as a deposit on a house purchase  
overseas. A few days  later Miss M checked  her account. She noticed a message saying the 
payment hadnt  been sent.  Miss M spoke to Nationwide.  And she asked for the payment not 
to be actioned any further. 
The estate  agent  confirmed the details.  So she messaged  Nationwide  to let them  know.  But 
Miss M decided to send  the payment through a different method. When  Miss M checked her 
account the following day she discovered  Nationwide had still sent the payment. She phoned 
Nationwide and it refunded £4960.32 on 9 July 2018. But Miss M and Mr W received another  
credit for a similar amount  on 20 September  2018.  They were expecting  a refund from 
another source. So they spent the money on home improvements. But Nationwide contacted 
them in January 2019 to ask for the return of the second payment. They  are worried they will 
be left in debt.  And they want a fair outcome to their complaint.
Nationwide accepted itd incorrectly sent a payment from Miss M and Mr Ws account on 5 
July 2018. Itd re-credited their account  and attempted a recall  from the recipient.  But itd 
refunded the money twice. And itd contacted Miss M and Mr W when it realised whatd 
happened. Nationwide credited Miss M and Mr W with £150 compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience.  But the sum of £4898.78 would need to be repaid. And Nationwide said 
it would  consider a payment plan if they werent able to return the amount in full.
Miss M and Mr W werent satisfied with Nationwides response.  So they contacted our 
service and our investigator looked into the matter.  She could understand why Nationwides 
letter in September 2018 saying the case was closed mightve caused confusion. But she felt 
it was reasonable  for Nationwide to ask for the repayment of the funds. Miss M and Mr W 
had enjoyed the benefit of money  they shouldnt have received.
Miss M and Mr W didnt  agree.  They  hadnt  been confused  by the closure  letter. Theyd had 
their money back in July. And the letter  just confirmed  Nationwide  hadnt been  able to 
recover its mistaken payment. Nationwide  had made  a number of errors. And the money  had 
been spent in good faith on home improvements  that wouldnt have  taken place if the money 
hadnt been paid to them. So theyve asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how upsetting  this mustve been for Miss M and Mr W. After an initial 
mistake by Nationwide they received their money back. And they thought that was the end of 
the matter. When they received another payment a few months  later they didnt realise it 
wasnt theirs. Miss M and Mr W are concerned  they will be left in substantial debt if 
Nationwide takes  the money  back.  So Ive looked  very carefully  at everything thats 
happened. 
Ref: DRN25544722Nationwide made  a mistake when  it sent the payment from Miss M and Mr Ws account in 
July 2018. And the money was re-credited within  a few days. So I can understand why 
Miss M and Mr W felt that the matter was closed.  
Nationwide didnt receive a reply from the recipient bank. So it wrote to Miss M and Mr W in 
September 2018 to say it was closing  the case. When  the recipient  returned the payment 
shortly afterwards it was mistakenly  credited to Miss M and Mr W even though theyd already 
been refunded.  And Nationwide asked them to return  the payment.
I do appreciate Nationwides mistake has led to an unfortunate outcome. Miss M and Mr W 
were expecting a payment from another source.  So they spent  the money without realising it 
wasnt theirs. But the terms  and conditions of the account allow Nationwide  to recover funds 
thatve been paid in error.  The amount they received was very similar  to the first payment 
from Nationwide. And it had the same description.
Miss M and Mr W say theyve spent the money  on home improvements they might  not have 
considered otherwise. And I appreciate their concern  they will be left in debt if Nationwide 
take the money from their account. I can see Nationwide has offered to consider a payment 
plan if they are unable to repay the full amount immediately.  And I think  thats  the right 
approach. Although I think Miss M and Mr W should  repay the money Nationwide should  
offer them the chance to do so without  causing  any further problems.
Miss M and Mr W were entitled  to a refund when money was mistakenly taken from their 
account. And I think its reasonable Nationwide should also expect to be repaid the amount 
itd mistakenly placed in their account.  
I can see Nationwide has offered Miss M and Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its mistake  has caused.  And I think thats a reasonable response in the 
circumstances. I realise Miss M and Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome. But I wont 
be asking Nationwide  to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2554472