K822xcomplaint
Mr G is complaining that Automobile Association  Insurance Services  Limited  (the AA) didnt 
tell him the excess on his car insurance policy had increased. 
background
In April 2017 Mr G took out a car insurance  policy through  the AA  a broker. In May 2017 
the insurer contacted the AA to say that a claim Mr G had disclosed as a non-fault claim 
was actually a fault claim  and it asked the AA to change the terms of policy to what  it would 
be had Mr G said it was a fault claim. 
The AA says it then sent Mr G two letters  one saying  that an additional premium was 
payable and secondly saying that his excess had changed to £250. Unfortunately  Mr Gs car 
was vandalised  so he contacted the insurer to claim for the damage on his car insurance  
policy. The insurer explained  that the excess was £250, but Mr G said that it should have 
been £100. 
Mr G then complained to the AA that it didnt  tell him the excess had changed from £100 to 
£250. The AA said that it sent Mr G a letter in May 2017  explaining the excess  had changed. 
But it thought it could have made it clearer. So it offered him £35 in compensation. It also 
said it would  refund the £150 difference if Mr G made the claim. Mr G didnt think this was 
enough and asked this service to step in. He also said that he didnt receive the letter  sent in 
May 2017 advising of the change in excess.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I thought  the AAs compensation offer was fair. I 
first explained that I could  only look at the actions  of the AA as the broker of the policy. I said 
the decision to charge  an additional excess was made by the insurer  so I said I couldnt look 
at whether that was fair or not. I noted Mr G had also queried that the policy  would have 
been avoided  had he made  a claim,  but I said couldnt look at that either as this would relate 
to actions by the insurer.
As the broker, I said it was the AAs responsibility  to explain to Mr G if any of the terms of the 
policy changed. I thought that it did write  to Mr G on 1 May 2017  to explain that, following a 
change to the policy, his excess had increased. I agreed with the adjudicator that the AA 
should have made this clearer. It seemed  to me that this was a standard template letter  that 
the AA sent. I said it started off by saying that the change  was following Mr G contacting  it, 
which wasnt true. I set out that, while I didnt dispute that the letter  said the excess  had 
changed, I thought it should  have set out exactly how it had changed.
I saw that the AA sent Mr G a second letter on that day which explained that an additional 
premium was charged. I thought it should have also explained the increase in the excess  in 
this letter  too. 
However, I said I also needed to think about  whether the failure to not make  this clear has 
caused Mr G to lose out. Had Mr G been aware  of this, I said he would have had to choose  
between continuing  with the policy with the £250 excess  or cancelling the policy.  But, had he 
chosen to cancel the policy, he would  have had to pay a cancellation fee of £75. On 
balance, I didnt think its likely he would have chosen to cancel the policy. 
So I said I needed to think whether  the AA took fair steps to put things right.  The AA offered 
to pay Mr G £35 and refund the £150  difference if he chose to make a claim. But I thought 
Ref: DRN24899442Mr G was always going to have to pay the excess of £250 whether the AA made this clear or 
not. I noted Mr Gs comments about  the losses hed incurred due to having to have to pay an 
excess of £250,  rather than £100. But I think he had to pay this because  the insurer  
increased the excess due to Mr G incorrectly saying a fault claim was a non-fault claim. I 
said I couldnt hold the AA responsible for that.
Given this, I thought I had to say that the AA made a more than fair offer to refund the £150 
difference if Mr G made a claim.  As it also offered to pay £35 in compensation, I didnt think 
its offer to put things right was unreasonable. So I didnt think  it needs to pay him any further 
compensation. 
Mr G didnt agree with my provisional decision.  Hes unhappy that I came to a different 
conclusion to the adjudicators who originally reviewed the complaint. He said the £35 was 
paid to him because  the car had already  been collection and returned to him after the excess 
query was raised,  costing  him petrol and wear and tear to the car.. He said the AA decided  
several days after this that it would pay the difference of the excess  which was too late.
He said he queried  with the insurer if it would  have avoided his policy  should  a claim had 
been made. But he hasnt had a response  to this.
Mr G also reiterated that the AA sent the second letter in May 2017 that I referred to which 
advised him of the change in excess,
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive taken Mr Gs further comments into account. But Ive come to the same  conclusion as I 
did in my provisional decision. As I said in my provisional decision,  I can only look at the 
actions of the AA as the broker and I cant look at the actions of the insurer. And this 
includes whether  would  have avoided his policy should  a claim been made.
I note Mr G says that he didnt receive  both of the letters that were sent to him. But Im 
satisfied that its likely that they were both sent. And I cant hold the AA responsible if they 
didnt arrive. But, my role is to assess whether the AA took fair steps to put things right.  And 
in doing so I need to think  about  what would have  happened if Mr G had been  aware  of the 
change of excess.
I set out in my provisional decision that I dont  think Mr G would have cancelled  the 
insurance policy. And I havent  seen anything to change my thoughts  on this. So he was 
always going to have to pay the increased excess on this claim.
I acknowledge Mr G says that the £35 in compensation was paid because he incurred costs 
in having to have the car taken to a garage  and then returned  to him after he learned  the 
excess had increased.  But I think £35 was fair compensation for this.
I still think the AA made a fair offer to pay the difference on the excess  which  I dont think it 
had to do. While I acknowledge Mr G chose to not claim for the damage,  I cant  hold the AA 
responsible for that. Given he was always going  to have to pay the increased excess, I think  
its most  likely he would have always made  the decision to not claim for the damage,  even if 
the AA made the excess change clearer at the outset. 
Ref: DRN24899443It seems  to me that Mr Gs loss in this case is the expenses incurred in initially  having the 
car go to the garage to be repaired and then returned to him. But, as I said I think  the AA has 
paid fair compensation in respect to this. So I still dont think  it needs to pay him further 
compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2489944