K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that BMW Financial Services(GB)  Limited (BMW  FS) didnt  allow him to 
cancel his agreement  after refinancing  his hire purchase agreement.
background
Mr W entered into a finance agreement  in 2013 to acquire a new vehicle. The agreement 
was for two years. At the end of the agreement he refinanced and signed a new finance 
agreement which ended  on 4 January  2018.  At this point Mr W had the option of either 
paying the balloon payment, giving the vehicle back, or again renegotiating a new finance  
agreement. 
Mr W says that he contacted BMW FS and agreed to keep  the vehicle for another  two years 
and entered into a new finance agreement. However  Mr W says that once he had refinanced 
he discovered the value of his vehicle was £4,000 less than the cash price on his 
agreement. He says he exercised his right to cancel but this was refused. 
Since raising  his complaint Mr W says that a default has been  applied to his account 
meaning he has been unable to get finance  to replace his vehicle. 
BMW FS says that Mr W asked for the balloon payment on his agreement  to be refinanced. 
It says Mr W was given  the opportunity to avoid this and return  the car but he chose to 
refinance. It says that as Mr W already had the vehicle this was a refinancing  not a distance 
sale. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She thought  that Mr W had been  provided with 
the information he needed,  including  information about his right to withdraw from the 
agreement. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He said he hadnt  disputed the right to withdraw 
from the finance agreement but this wasnt his complaint.  He said he had wanted to 
withdraw from his purchase  agreement  and had this been accepted the finance  agreement 
should then have been cancelled.
Our investigator responded to Mr Ws comments explaining that as a service we couldnt  
consider Mr Ws withdrawal from a purchase agreement but only his issues  in regard to his 
finance agreement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W initially entered into a HPA to acquire a new vehicle in 2013. At the end of this 
agreement in 2015 he refinanced and entered into a new agreement for the vehicle. This 
was due to end in early  January 2018.  
At end of 2017,  Mr W contacted BMW FS. I have listened to the call and on this Mr W 
explains he has ordered another vehicle  but the delivery has been  delayed. Options are put 
to him in regard to returning the car and talking  to his new supplier about  a loan car. 
However Mr W asks about refinancing the agreement. This option is discussed and the 
Ref: DRN22069062monthly payments  and balloon payment explained. A possible deposit and options  of 
different terms were then discussed. Mr W says he will consider  his options.
Mr W then has a conversation in early January 2018  on which he confirms  he wants to enter 
into a new agreement based on the terms previously  discussed and it was agreed his 
documents would  be emailed and contact would be made about the deposit payment. 
Based on the above I think Mr W was provided with the information he needed before 
agreeing to enter into the new agreement.
Mr W says that he discovered after entering into the agreement  that the value recorded for 
the vehicle was higher than its actual value. I understand Mr Ws concerns but I can see the 
information about the value of vehicle and other financial information was provided to Mr W 
and he signed  the agreement on this basis. I also have  nothing to show  that there  was an 
issue with the valuation.
Mr W said he exercised  his right to exit the agreement. It has been explained which  
regulations could be relevant and I have considered this case based  on the relevant 
regulations but also what  I consider a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mr W said that he was aware of the withdrawal rights under his finance agreement  but it was 
the purchase agreement he was withdrawing  from. It has been explained that this service 
can consider complaints  in regard to regulated activities and so my decision is limited to any 
issues arising from the finance agreement Mr W entered into in January 2018.
As I find that Mr W was provided  with the information he needed to make  an informed 
decision when entering into the finance  agreement I do not find I can say BMW  FS has done 
anything wrong  in this case. 
BMW FS has confirmed that Mr Ws agreement has been cancelled  because the account 
went into default. I can see that a default  notice was issued in May 2018.  As the payments 
on the account werent maintained I cant say that BMW Fs did anything  wrong  by taking this 
action. 
Overall, while  I appreciate that Mr W has concerns about issues aside from the finance  
agreement my decision is about the actions  taken by BMW FS in regard to the finance  
agreement. In this case  based on the information  I have  seen  and the calls I have listened to 
I do not find I can uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2206906