K822xcomplaint
Miss A has complained  that Bright Blue Wealth Coastal advised  her to take her full tax-free 
cash from her pension  and reinvest it into an ISA and an investment account. She says this 
was unnecessary and as a result increased her potential inheritance tax liability.  She has 
raised various other issues relating to the same  advice. 
Bright Blue Wealth Coastal is an appointed  representative of Openwork  Limited,  so they are 
responsible for this complaint and Ill refer to Openwork throughout the decision for 
simplicity.
background 
Miss A met with an Openwork adviser in 2017.  She was 61 and had recently retired. The 
adviser recommended that she transfer  to a drawdown plan and take the maximum  tax-free 
cash (TFC). He subsequently recommended that she should  invest the bulk of the TFC in an 
ISA and investment  account. 
Miss A complained in 2018. She said that she hadnt needed the TFC, and that it should 
have been kept within her pension. She said that the adviser had told her she would lose the 
TFC if she didnt take it. She was concerned that the advice had caused a potential  
inheritance tax (IHT) liability. She also said that she had never received the two suitability 
reports and raised several service  issues too.
Openwork rejected the complaint. Based on testimony from the adviser, they said that 
Miss A had a need for her TFC and wanted hold it on deposit to avoid it falling in value. They  
said they didnt  see any particular downside on withdrawing all TFC upfront and the advice 
given was suitable. They rejected that there had been service issues  and provided  
clarifications to some points.
The complaint was referred  to the Financial  Ombudsman Service. An adjudicator considered  
that it should be upheld. He made the following  main  points:
There was no need to take the full tax-free  cash.  Miss A should  have been  advised to 
retain it within her pension and crystallise  benefits as she needed them
He considered that Miss A could mitigate  her IHT position  by relying on the ISA and 
investment account for her income  needs until the tax-free cash had been spent 
An IHT liability could  arise during the period required to mitigate Miss As position. 
However, this couldnt be quantified.
He didnt believe adviser fees should be refunded, as these  would still have been 
payable if Miss A had been advised suitably.  
He proposed Openwork should  pay Miss A £900 which is £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and £400  for some  tax charges and costs already suffered. 
Miss A was not willing  to accept the recommended redress, and the complaint was referred 
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22965722There has been substantial correspondence in this case,  which I have read and considered 
in full. Miss A raised lots of different issues  during the complaint. These  have been  
addressed by the adjudicator in detail. For most  of those he thought Openwork wasnt at 
fault or their actions  hadnt caused  any losses. I agree with the adjudicator  on his findings  on 
these points and I wont address  these here again.
Miss As main  concern throughout the complaint has been the following:
She doesnt believe it is fair to expect her to mitigate the position the adviser  has put 
her in, with a potential  IHT liability hanging over her for more than ten years.  She 
believes that her tax allowances wont be available for mitigation. 
She believes she will have to pay for future advice  that she might not have needed to 
pay for if she had been advised  correctly in the first place.
So this is what I have  focussed on. Ive recently  shared  my initial thoughts  on this complaint 
with Miss A and Openwork which were  as follows:
I agree  with the investigator that the advice given  to Miss A was unsuitable. I cant  see she 
had the need to take her full TFC lump  sum.  In fact based on the information Ive seen Im 
satisfied the advisers  plan from the outset was to reinvest the TFC lump sum into an 
investment account  and an ISA. Miss A simply wanted to draw an income.  This could have 
been achieved  by taking the tax- free cash in stages  in line with the income she was taking. 
The consequences of this unsuitable  advice are varied, but mainly concern tax liabilities and 
planning uncertainties Miss A might  face in future. Taking all of the TFC out of the pension  
means these funds arent protected  from IHT anymore. In addition any capital  gains from 
investing these  funds or dividends paid might mean she has to pay additional tax which  
wouldnt have been an issue if her lump sum had stayed invested in her drawdown plan. 
Concerned with the advice she had received she changed advisers who charges higher 
ongoing fees.
My initial thoughts were  that the compensation offered so far isnt sufficient.
I appreciate that until Miss A dies, the extent of any IHT liabilities  wont be known. And I think 
its likely  that Miss As capital gains  and dividends on the investments she made with her 
TFC alone might not exceed the relevant allowances. However, Miss A told us she is 
planning to sell her property in Spain and is likely to receive an inheritance  in the near future 
which means shes expecting to have a large  amount (£150-£200k) which  shes planning  to 
invest too. 
She is also planning to start working  again  through her limited  company and the dividends  
that she paid herself  in the past always exceeded the dividends allowance.  Miss A is 
expecting having  to use her allowances in full for other gains and dividends. 
So overall there is a possibility  of additional  tax liabilities  on the TFC sum which  she wouldnt 
have if she hadnt  taken the full TFC at once. She also wishes to use her ISA allowances 
and possible  (quite limited) pension  contribution  allowances for existing and future capital, so 
these allowances  cant be necessarily  relied on to mitigate IHT liabilities.
It's impossible to quantify the exact losses Miss A might encounter over the next few years.  
It will depend on too many  moving factors. She might be able to mitigate some or even all of 
these losses, particularly  around IHT, however this isnt guaranteed  and even if she does, 
Ref: DRN22965723this might take years and shell  likely  need  additional  professional advice to support her with 
this.  
It doesnt seem fair or reasonable to me that Miss A is carrying  all the risk of her or her 
estate having  these additional tax liabilities (without  recourse through this service  if they do 
occur) and likely has to pay for additional financial advice without any compensation from 
Openwork towards  this. In addition to any actual  losses Miss A might  experience,  I think  the 
inconvenience of changing advisers, having  likely to seek  further advice and having her 
pension benefits  not all in one place  together with the worry and distress  of facing additional 
liabilities if she isnt able to mitigate  these, is quite substantial. 
I suggested compensation  to Miss A as follows.
putting things right
Openwork should:  
Refund of all adviser fees charged. This includes the initial  charges of £910 and 
£5,650.95 (Total: £6,560.95) plus the ongoing  adviser charges across  all investment 
products (ISA, investment  account  and retirement account). 
Miss A can use this money to pay for further advice and/or can use this to count  
against future tax liabilities. Bearing  in mind Openworks advice left Miss A in a 
disadvantaged position, I think this is fair in the circumstances.
£400 for tax liabilities and costs which  have  already occurred and which Openwork 
has previously agreed  to cover
£1,000 (increased  from £500)  for the stress,  worry and inconvenience of having  to 
sort out and monitor her financial  situation (likely over a number of years) which has 
been made more  complex than it needed  to be.
Awarding compensation isnt an exact  science and I appreciate the above is simplified and 
likely not perfect. Its possible that Miss A will incur  fewer costs and liabilities. Equally the 
above might  not cover  everything. However, I think given the uncertainties of the complaint 
the above suggested award is reasonable.
responses to my initial findings 
Openwork was disappointed with my findings. They  said they felt the adjudicators 
assessments had been fair and they had agreed to pay his suggested compensation. They 
made the following additional  comments:
They say the advice to transfer  and access income was suitable. But they accepted  
that their advice to take and invest all TFC was unsuitable. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Services approach  to complaints is to attempt to place 
consumers as much as possible in the position  they would be in had the business not 
made an error. However, by refunding all the charges Miss A would be in better 
position than if she had been given  fully suitable  advice.
Miss As investment account  showed  a value of £47,000 when she closed it in 
August 2018.  It wouldnt be onerous to mitigate a potential  future tax liability on this 
amount. They  queried whether this investment amount  even existed over two years 
Ref: DRN22965724later. Miss A should have  accessed this money for required income or should have 
invested it in a tax-advantageous matter  to start mitigating her situation.
Openwork think the proposed redress would be overcompensating Miss A as she 
has suffered negligible (if any) loss to date, has broadly received suitable advice, has 
been charged the same as if she had received suitable advice and has the ability  to 
mitigate any tax liabilities. Tax liabilities might never occur  given the small size of the 
fund in August  2018 and that Miss A was looking to use £20,000 per year in income.
Openwork was happy to settle on the adjudicators proposals (£900) and they offered  
as a gesture of goodwill  to also refund the initial advice charge on the investment of 
the TFC. Even though  they say this fee would have been  payable as part of the initial 
fee of the transfer  advice if Miss A had not been  advised to take the TFC.
Ive considered Openworks comments carefully.  Ive seen Miss As accounts statements 
and I can see that in 2017 Miss A took around £94,000 in TFC of which she kept £3,000 and 
invested £91,000. She put £20,000 into an ISA and £71,000 into an investment account  as 
recommended by the adviser. Before Miss A changed her adviser and closed the accounts 
in August 2018, she had moved another £20,000 from the investment account into the ISA 
(just as the adviser had originally recommended to her). 
So although  Openwork is correct that Miss As investment account held £47,000 in 2018 
they seem  to have  overlooked that her ISA account  held an additional £40,000. So of the 
TFC she took she still had around  £87,000  in 2018. When  she moved advisers  she 
replicated the same structure (retirement account, ISA and investment account, just with a 
different provider).
As some time has passed since the adjudicators  view and I do acknowledge that potentially 
Miss A had already mitigated her situation  by using funds from her ISA and investment 
account rather from her pension, I asked her for an update on her current  situation.
She told me her Spanish property was on the market and will hopefully sell next summer for 
around £120,000. All was delayed due to Covid-19. She was still expecting to likely receive  
an inheritance  of around £80,000 in the next few years as well. She still had around £80,000 
in her stocks  and shares ISA and investment account at the beginning of December 2020.
Until September 2020 she had paid for her living expenses  from her cash ISA account which 
held her savings. She had decided to keep her pension (including the money that came from 
her TFC) untouched and allow it to grow as shes worried  shell significantly be depleting  her 
capital if she keeps  drawing an income  from these funds now.
She has no income at the moment and has started drawing an income  from her investment 
account of £1,200 per month  (since  September 2020). So to date she has accessed £3,600 
from these funds. This is a short-term  solution. Shes expecting to publish her book next year 
and is planning  to look for employed work once she had the Covid-19 vaccination. She 
thinks this will cover any gap until she receives the money from her property sale and 
inheritance which she will then use to provide  her with or supplement her income.
She has moved her ISA allowance every year from the investment account  to the stocks and 
shares ISA and she made maximum pension contributions. For this purpose  she opened a 
second personal pension account which holds about £7,500.
Having considered everything  Miss A has told us I think  she has mitigated her situation by 
using ISA and pension contribution allowances. When she needed  further income she took it 
Ref: DRN22965725from the investment  account, rather than from her retirement  account  which  is what  I would 
expect her to do. She has changed  her plans and is not drawing an income  of £20,000  but 
has lived on savings until recently.  But this is her prerogative. The retirement account 
promised flexibility which also means she doesnt need to take funds if she doesnt have to. 
Its likely  shell support  her living expenses in the next few years  by taking on work,  receiving  
income from her books and from the funds shell receive from her property sale and 
inheritance. 
Even if I assume that shell have to take out some  further funds from her investment account 
over the next few months,  I still think shell be left with a significant sum that without 
Openworks advice would still be in the pension. And it will take quite some time and likely  
further advice  to try and mitigate any tax liabilities on this. The fact remains  that if she hadnt  
taken the TFC out of her pension, the majority of these funds would still be in the pension 
and not form part of her estate. 
As I said in my initial  findings,  we simply dont know what liabilities Miss A will face in terms 
of inheritance tax. If she died in the near future the losses  would likely  be a lot higher than 
the redress I proposed.  And its likely some liabilities  would remain  in several  years  to come.  
Equally, Miss A could enjoy a long life and might  need to access  the funds  that were  made  
up from her TFC sooner than she plans to and no additional liabilities may incur.  
I still think its unfair to leave those risks completely  with Miss A when its Openwork who left 
her in this uncertain  position. Openwork is correct that as a service  we generally try to put 
customers back into the position they would  be in if the mistake hadnt occurred. This isnt 
possible in this case. We cant put Miss As TFC back into her pension. But this doesnt 
mean we cant look at other options  to compensate her.
Its true that Miss A would have always paid the same  charges, whether she had been given 
suitable advice  or not. But I dont agree that my proposed redress would necessarily 
overcompensate her. I think Openwork  should  pay a lump  sum to Miss A which allows  her to 
pay for additional advice to help mitigate  her liabilities as best as possible and/or can be 
used to pay towards possible tax liabilities.  What this sum should  be isnt an exact science 
and I recognise that due to the uncertainties of the situation any suggested amount can 
never be perfect.  But given that Miss A did receive  unsuitable advice from Openwork, I think 
its reasonable for them to refund their charges to Miss A in the circumstances and reduce 
the risk that she or her estate will have to pay for additional liabilities  Openwork caused.
I also remain satisfied that Openwork should pay the actual losses of £400 already incurred 
and agreed by them previously and a higher sum for distress and inconvenience as 
described in my initial findings.
Ive considered everything that Openwork and Miss A have said and I still think my proposed 
redress as set out above is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
For completeness I also want to address Miss As argument that Openwork is responsible 
for losses she likely incurred  when  she changed  platforms and funds were disinvested  and 
had to be re-invested again.  I dont  think it would be fair to hold Openwork responsible  for 
this. An in-specie transfer (where funds arent disinvested and reinvested) might  have  been  
possible and even  if it wasnt,  a change of provider was Miss As choice or that of her new 
adviser. Even if Miss A was dissatisfied with Openwork,  I cant see that a change of provider 
was an absolute necessity.
Ref: DRN22965726my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and request  Openwork Limited to pay Miss A the compensation as 
set out under the putting things right section.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2296572