K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Santander UK Plc wont add his requested  power of attorney, 
Mr W, onto his accounts without Mr W providing Santander some personal information.
background
In January 2019 Mr P went into a Santander  branch  with Mr W to add him onto their records  
as Mr Ps representative, via power of attorney. They provided the bank with the power of 
attorney document as well as proof of ID.
The staff member they spoke to explained power  of attorney wasnt something they process  
in branch and sent the forms to the relevant department to be processed.  After reviewing the 
documents, Santander said a few pages  of the power of attorney form were missing.  And it 
also explained it needed Mr W to fill out an additional power  of attorney registration form. 
This form asked questions about  Mr Ws employment status, national insurance  number and 
some other personal financial  information.  
Mr P was unhappy and said Santander had lost the missing pages  as he was sure when he 
handed it in it was complete. And as a result of the pages going missing he now needed to 
get another copy  certified, which cost him additional  money. And Mr W didnt want to 
complete the additional form as he felt Santander  was asking him for personal  information  
that it didnt need. Mr W said Santander  should  abide by the power of attorney as a legal 
document and add him as Mr Ps representative,  without needing anything else.  He said 
several other  financial institutions  had already done this for Mr P without the need for any 
additional information about  Mr W.
Santander says it needed the form to be completed to comply with money laundering 
regulations, as well as the Know  Your Customer initiative. Mr W says this doesnt apply as 
those regulations only apply to the banks customers and he isnt a customer  of Santander.
Mr W has also said Santander discriminated against Mr P because Mr P suffers from mental 
health issues, which is why he wanted  to nominate a power of attorney  in the first instance.  
As such Mr W believes Santanders refusal  to add him, without getting the additional 
information asked  for, amounts to discrimination against a vulnerable person.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ps complaint, but didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. He said Santander had been able to point to industry guidance which  made 
it reasonable for it to ask for the additional  form to be completed. He also didnt believe 
Santander could  be held responsible for the lost power of attorney document pages. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with our investigators  findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review 
the complaint.  So the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold 
the complaint  and Id like to explain why.
I understand that this has been a very distressing time for Mr P. And its clear  from Mr Ws 
testimony that the idea of providing  the information  Santander has asked for makes him 
extremely uncomfortable.
Ref: DRN22112692However in order for me to uphold the complaint I need to be able to establish that 
Santander has behaved unreasonably in how its treated Mr P. So its important  to clarify 
from the start that banks are broadly allowed to decide themselves how theyd like to 
operate, as long as they meet their regulatory requirements, as well as their security  
obligations.
Santander hasnt  been able to point to a specific regulatory requirement which  makes  this 
registration form necessary. But it has referenced industry guidance from the Joint Money  
Laundering Steering Group.
This guidance outlines that someone who deals with accounts under a power  of attorney 
should be dealt  with as if theyre a direct customer of the bank. And because of this, they 
need to ask questions to confirm the identity of that person. Santander says the form fulfils 
this function, which  is why it wants Mr W to complete it.
Mr W has said this form isnt required,  since he has no financial interest in Mr P and hasnt 
applied for access to his account. He feels very strongly that Santander  isnt entitled to his 
personal information and, as someone who doesnt hold an account with the bank  directly;  
he is not willing to share  it. He has said that the power of attorney itself, legislated  by 
government and a legally  binding document in its own right, should be sufficient. However,  
Santander has said that by adding Mr W as the power of attorney it would give him full 
access to Mr Ps accounts, including the ability to remove  and transfer funds unimpeded. 
And because of this, Santander has an obligation  to ensure the security of Mr P and his 
account, as well as reduce  the risk of fraud  and money laundering as per the relevant 
regulations.
Santander says it uses the information  on this form to carry out an identity check, and that 
this wouldnt be visible to anyone other  than Mr W on his credit file. And this check  would be 
done to ensure the security of Mr Ps account. The bank  is also entitled to decide what  sort 
of checks it wants to put in place to ensure its customers  information and money are safe. 
Therefore, while  I understand both Mr P and Mr W are upset by Santander insisting the form 
be completed in order  for Mr W to be added to the account, I cant say that the bank has 
behaved unreasonably by including  this additional safety measure.
I sympathise with the situation this leaves  Mr P in and I appreciate  he has told us that some 
other banks  have allowed the power of attorney to be logged  without an additional form 
being completed. Mr W also thinks that since the power of attorney is a legal document,  the 
law is being ignored.
However, as mentioned  above Santander  is entitled to put security checks  and processes in 
place to protect its customers.  And I dont  agree  it is trying to supersede the actual legal 
power of attorney, which is still required. But it has asked for additional information and I 
cant say its not entitled  to do that. So I cant ask it to add Mr W to the account  unless he 
completes the paperwork as requested.  
Mr W has said Santanders decision means theyre  discriminating against a vulnerable 
person with mental health conditions. Im unable to consider whether or not Santanders  
actions amount to discrimination  as it is outside of this services remit. Only a court  could 
decide whether  there has been discrimination in a situation like this. But in order to find 
discrimination had taken  place a court would need to see that Mr P has been dealt with 
differently to other  people, because of his mental  health issues.  And Santander has 
confirmed it requires everyone applying for power  of attorney to complete this form, 
regardless of why they want it.
Ref: DRN22112693Finally, I havent seen enough  evidence  to show Santander lost Mr Ps documentation. Both 
Mr P and Santander confirm the paperwork was dropped into a local branch in January  last 
year but it is unclear  whether  or not the form was handed in incomplete  or if pages were lost 
in transit. Without  additional evidence to consider  Im unable  to find that Santander were 
directly responsible for the pages going  missing and so I wont  be asking it to refund Mr P for 
the cost of re-certifying those pages.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  against  Santander  UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2211269