K821x#15complaint
Ms C has complained about the advice she was given  by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer her pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 11 August 2020. The background and
circumstances of the case and the reasons I was minded to uphold it were  set out in that
decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to
consider.
Alexander David Securities Limited  didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.
Ms C said she was happy to proceed with the outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision attached, my final decision is that I uphold
Ms Cs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Ms C as set
out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Ms C to accept or
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN25587382Copy of Provisional  decision
complaint
Ms C has complained about the advice she was given  by St Pauls Marketing  Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David Securities Limited) to transfer her pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. He explained  Ms 
C had said she was cold called and offered  a pension review  which she accepted.  Ms C had said she 
was promised returns  of between 8.25%  and 8.75%  by representatives of St Pauls  Marketing, which 
she was told was better than her existing stakeholder plan.
Ms C applied for the SIPP in October 2016. Ms C then received a letter from the SIPP provider  in 
November 2016 confirming that £16,384  had been  transferred to the new SIPP.
Ms C, through  her representative,  complained to Alexander David in 2018.  I understand Alexander 
David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The representative  subsequently referred the 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators asked Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it 
wanted us to take into account.  Despite  reminders,  he received no response. The investigator 
therefore assessed the complaint on the evidence that had been presented.
The investigator noted  that Ms C had alleged  that she wouldnt have transferred her pension and 
invested in the Just Loans  debentures if not for St Pauls Marketing recommending and arranging it. 
Alexander David hadnt disputed or commented on her complaint. The investigator thought  Ms Cs 
version of events seemed  credible and was consistent with the limited evidence provided by third 
parties. He thought, based on what Ms C had said had happened, St Pauls Marketing had made a 
personal recommendation to her.
The investigator said it was clear a direct comparison  had been made between Ms Cs existing plan 
and the prospective investment with Just Loans in the SIPP, taking into consideration the 
performance of the existing  plan and Ms Cs objectives. He said it was difficult to imagine  such a 
conversation taking place without a recommendation to proceed with the better option,  inferred or 
otherwise. He thought it was likely a recommendation  had been made by St Pauls Marketing  to Ms C.
The investigator didnt think it was a suitable recommendation.  Ms C was in a stakeholder plan with 
1% charges invested  in a UK Equity  Index Lifestyle fund. The fund was diversified into lower risk 
assets as she approached retirement,  with her pension  spread between fixed interest fund and cash 
at the time the fund was switched away in 2016. Ms C had said she was a low risk client,  could not 
afford to lose any of her pension, and had no capacity for loss. Alexander David hadnt disputed this 
and the investigator thought it was credible.
By comparison, the Just Loans debenture was issued  by a single  company  which the investigator 
understood was concerned  entirely with peer to peer lending. The company was only a few years old 
at the time of advice with little in the way of a track  record. Ms Cs entire  retirement provision was 
invested in it. The investigator said the investment was speculative and unsuitable for Ms C. He 
thought the transfer and investment were both unsuitable.
The investigator said that even if it was argued St Pauls Marketing didnt make a personal 
recommendation, as it was arranging the transaction and making a direct offer it was required to carry 
out an appropriateness test in accordance  with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Conduct of 
Business rules (COBS); the debentures were a non-readily realisable  security. Had this been done, St 
Ref: DRN25587383Pauls Marketing would  have likely determined that Ms C didnt have the necessary  experience  and 
knowledge to understand the risks involved  in the Just Loans  investment.
The investigator went  onto say that he also thought the firm had failed to treat Ms C fairly or act in her 
best interests as required  by the FCAs Principles and COBS  2.1.1. Ms C was an inexperienced 
investor with very little capacity for loss. The investigator thought that any competent financial 
professional would have recognised that this transaction was unlikely to be in her best interests.  And 
without the firms involvement  this wouldnt have happened. 
The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He sent his assessment of the it to 
Alexander David. However it didnt provide  a response. The investigator subsequently wrote to both 
parties on 6 January 2020 explaining that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman  for 
review and to make a final decision.   No further evidence  or arguments have been provided.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Ms Cs original complaint. Neither did it co-operate with our 
investigation; it didnt provide its business files or respond to the investigators  assessment of the 
complaint. Theres  only very limited evidence  available to establish  what  happened at the time of the 
transaction.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Ms Cs recollection of events. 
Alexander David hasnt disputed what Ms C said in her complaint to it, or what the investigator said in 
his assessment.
Im also mindful  that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I have seen 
against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature,  involving  seemingly similar circumstances  
and the same  investments.
Clearly I need  to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in each
particular case. But Ive noted that what  Ms C has said about St Pauls role is consistent with what 
other complainants  have  described. So I think what she has said is plausible.  And taking  everything 
into account,  I have found it credible. 
In my experience its unusual  for someone of Ms Cs background  and experience to transfer and 
invest in this type of investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without 
the involvement of St Pauls. Im satisfied that it initiated the investment  in the debenture.  It was aware  
of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated it.
Ms C has said St Pauls told her she would  make better returns by transferring her pension;  the 
investigator said he thought it likely St Pauls had recommended the transaction and it wasnt suitable  
for Ms C, and the firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances, I think  its more  likely than not that 
advice was given.
The investigator also said he thought St Pauls was involved in arranging the transaction  and that it 
was required, but failed, to assess its appropriateness  in accordance COBS 10. He didnt think  the 
debentures were  appropriate  for Ms C.
Again, St Pauls hasnt disputed this. I agree with the investigator  that its more likely than not that St 
Pauls arranged the investment. It was the promoter for the debenture, but Im satisfied, on the limited 
evidence that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging  the investment (and 
recommending it). The debenture  was high risk and speculative and clearly wasnt appropriate for Ms 
C given her background, knowledge and circumstances.
Ref: DRN25587384Ms C has said she was a low risk client, she was renting  a property,  had no cash savings and no 
other pension provision.  She has said she had no previous investment  experience and hadnt got 
capacity for the loss of the pension. I think it was clear that the debenture wasnt suitable  or 
appropriate for Ms C and this should have been clear to St Pauls. Like the investigator, I dont think  
the firm treated Ms C fairly or acted in her best interests as required by the Principles and COBS 
2.1.1. Im satisfied that if St Pauls  hadnt advised Ms C to transfer and invest  in the debenture  or if it 
had told her it wasnt appropriate for her she wouldnt have  transferred and invested in it.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls failures caused  Ms C to transfer and invest  in a product that 
she would otherwise  not have invested into. It follows that Im satisfied its failures  caused the losses 
that Ms C has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint. I intend to order Alexander  David
Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Ms C on the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms C as close as possible to the 
position she would probably now be in if she had been  given suitable advice.
Ms C was approaching retirement age and her existing  pension was invested in a lifestyle fund.  Her 
pension had been switched to cash and fixed  interest  and so was suitable  for her circumstances and 
risk profile at that time. Accordingly, I think suitable advice would have been to stay with her existing 
pension provider and remain  in the same fund. So I think Ms C would have still been with her original 
provider and invested in the same funds but for the actions of St Pauls.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Ms C fairly  Alexander David  should:
Compare the performance of Ms Cs investment with that of the benchmark  shown below  (her original 
scheme). If the fair value is greater than the actual  value , there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual  value is greater  than the fair value , no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest as set out below. If there is a loss, 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  pay into Ms Cs pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges  and 
any available tax relief.  Alexander David Securities  Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation  into the 
pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Ms Cs pension  plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would  have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using 
Ms Cs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement  age.
I think  Ms C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at her selected retirement age, so the reduction 
should equal  the current basic  rate of tax. However,  if Ms C would have  been able to take a tax-free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Ltd should:
Pay Ms C £250 for the distress and inconvenience  Im satisfied the matter has caused her.
Provide details of the calculation to Ms C in a clear, simple format.
Ref: DRN25587385Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from  that interest, it 
should tell Ms C how much it has taken off. It should also give Ms C a tax deduction certificate 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists Ms Cs original 
pension and 
the funds she 
was invested 
in at the date 
she 
transferred  s 
out of itDate  of 
transferDate  of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified  of
Ms Cs 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David Securities Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator. This 
amount should be deducted  from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to purchase the debentures its value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd may wish to require that Ms C 
provides an undertaking  to pay it any amount  she may receive from the debentures in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred  on drawing or receipt  from the 
pension plan.  Alexander  David Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing  up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is the notional transfer value of Ms Cs original plan had it not been transferred.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP by Ms C should be added to the fair value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income  or other  distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted  from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Ref: DRN25587386SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt  
buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Ms C hasnt got the opportunity  to close the SIPP or 
switch to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David Securities  Ltd 
cant buy the investment or it cant be sold sand  it remains illiquid,  it should pay Ms C an amount 
equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation 
calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ms C has said she was a low risk investor and I think her circumstances were  consistent  with 
someone who only had limited capacity for risk. In the circumstances, I dont think  Ms C would  have 
transferred without St Pauls involvement and her existing  pension and funds were  suitable  for her 
circumstances.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2558738