K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Financial Administration Services  Limited  (Fidelity) did not in practice 
provide a switching  option, as it claimed,  but merely a sell and buy (back)  option, unlike 
comparable platform providers, which resulted in him losing money. It also gave him 
incorrect information over the phone about  the switching process. He wants  it to credit his 
account with the 217.85 units hes lost as a result of the buy and sell not taking place at 
the same  price.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld,  explaining  why he 
felt Fidelitys offer of £75 was reasonable given it had only made one error, and that this 
hadnt resulted  in a loss.
Mr T then expanded on his concerns, saying:
He didnt understand the difference between a sell and buy instruction compared to 
a switch
He didnt think there had been  a need  for Fidelitys switching process  to involve a sell 
and buy process because the shares are the same in both I and S class
Fidelitys letter of 9 February  2019  should have explained how the switching process  
works
Fidelity responded  to these points, saying:
If Mr T had placed a sell instruction, he would have had to wait for the proceeds to 
settle (usually 3 business days) before placing his buy into the alternative fund
The new share class  was an alternative  fund and not a replacement  of the previous 
share class. Rathbone were  not closing the previous version,  so a conversion was 
not applicable. Units had to be sold from the fund Mr T held and the proceeds used 
to purchase units in the fund he had chosen
It offers  an execution-only platform and therefore wants to be sure that all 
customers are fully aware of all terms when placing a deal, so it does not provide 
excerpts
Mr T made  the decision to switch  before his telephone calls,  so the calls had no 
impact on his decision to deal (and therefore  the loss of units). Fidelity is not 
responsible for his decision or the timing of that decision.
Based on this further information, the investigator still did not feel the evidence  indicated that 
Fidelity had done anything wrong.  He said the onus was on Mr T to check  Fidelitys  
switching process before  placing  his order if he was unclear about how it worked. He also 
was satisfied that the new share  class was an alternative fund and so a switch was required; 
and that this was carried  out in line with Mr Ts instruction  and in accordance  with its day 
one/two processes.
Mr T did not agree, and said:
When placing a deal online Fidelity  offers  three options - Buy, Sell or Switch. So he 
could have used  Sell to dispose  of the Class  "I" shares,  then Buy on the following 
day to invest in the Class  "S" shares, i.e. two transactions  requiring two days  to 
Ref: DRN20374552complete, which  is how Fidelity did the conversion. So what  is the point of the Switch 
option, with a two day transaction, if the result is the same? 
At the time he concluded,  incorrectly, that Switch must surely be a seamless, neater 
way of doing the deal as a single process, in exactly the same way as Hargreaves 
Lansdown had converted his Rathbone  Global  "1" class  shares  to "S" class shares a 
week or so earlier
Fidelity's argument about a conversion  not being  applicable  is flawed. To say that a 
conversion is not applicable is incorrect. Hargreaves Lansdown did not close  the 
previous version  either. Just like Fidelity, Rathbone's Global I Class fund is still open  
on HL's platform,  but not for new investments
HL clearly, concisely and professionally explained the transaction process, unlike 
Fidelity
Fidelity could have  easily added "you'll  be out of the market for one day" in their 
letter. That would have been helpful  but, of course, not necessary according to 
Fidelity
Yes, he made the decision to switch outside  of office hours  and called first thing next 
morning to check this would be done in one transaction  in the same way HL had 
done
He was told the deal would be done  on the same  day. His mistake was assuming 
Fidelity would do the deal the same way that HL had
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mr T was not fully aware  of how Fidelity  would deal with a Switch 
instruction, and that he may well have assumed this would be a seamless  process involving 
no potential losses, particularly as HL offers this option for some  shares.
But my role, and that of this service, is to assess whether the evidence clearly  indicates that 
a business did something wrong, made  a mistake or treated a customer  manifestly  unfairly. 
In this case I dont believe  there  is such evidence to reach this conclusion.  As Mr T admits, 
Fidelity does outline how it treats a Switch instruction and I am satisfied that it followed this 
process. The fact that a different platform does  things differently does not mean  Fidelity  is 
not entitled to act in the way outlined in the terms and conditions.
As the investigator  explained, Fidelity offers a non-advised service, meaning  customers 
need to fully familiarise themselves with the way it operates, including how it treats a Switch  
instruction. The fact that Mr T was clearly unaware of Fidelity  approach  does not mean it 
can be held responsible for any consequential  losses.
Fidelity did not, unlike HL, decide to automatically  switch customers  funds to the new fund 
so a comparison between  how each platform provider dealt with transactions  out of the old 
fund are not relevant. 
I am also satisfied that there is a material difference between a Switch instruction  and a Buy 
and Sell instruction  (given the need for proceeds  to settle before they can be reinvested),  so 
I dont believe Fidelity  was wrong  to offer a distinct Switch option.  Fidelitys misleading 
advice occurred after Mr Ts Switch  instruction so did not result in a financial loss. I 
therefore believe its £75 offer was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN20374553my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2037455