K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001. Miss H says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. Of course I cant know for sure what took place during the sale, so Ive 
thought about everything Miss H has told us and looked to the documents  from the time 
of the sale to help me decide  what is more  likely  to have  happened. I appreciate what 
Miss H says about  being young and nave and just accepting a product  which Miss H 
now assumes was PPI - because  she was told it would improve her chances  of being 
approved for credit. She says she didnt know what PPI was and the words  insurance 
and sickness cover were never  mentioned. However, Ive seen a copy of the credit  
application form. This had a section for PPI. This provided Miss H with two equally clear 
options to take or refuse PPI. There was nothing on this application form which  would 
indicate that PPI would improve  Miss Hs chances of being  approved  for credit. And 
although Miss H says the words  sickness cover and insurance werent mentioned,  I note 
that the section  for PPI set out that this insurance  cover  will cover  your Barclaycard 
repayments if you are unable to work due to unemployment , accident, sickness So I 
think Miss H should  reasonably have been  aware of what PPI was and I havent seen 
sufficient evidence  to conclude that Miss H was told specifically  that taking PPI would 
improve her chances of getting  approved  for credit and that not taking it would mean its 
likely she wouldnt  be approved.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays  got a high level of commission and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because 
Barclays didnt tell Miss H, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN27615692To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss H has said - including what she has said about her 
existing repayment  provisions and that she was living at home and didnt care about  how her 
repayments would be met if she couldnt  work.  But these points dont change my decision.  I 
have already found that Miss H chose  to take out PPI. The PPI would have paid out in 
addition to and for a longer period of time than Miss Hs employee sick pay and redundancy 
pay.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2761569