K820x#14complaint
Miss T has complained that Ageas Insurance Limiteds market value for her car is too low. 
Shes also unhappy that Ageas didnt  provide  her with a courtesy car. 
Mr M is representing  Miss T in her complaint.
background
Miss T bought a car insurance policy through a broker. Her insurer,  Ageas dealt with a claim 
she made in January 2019. 
Ageass engineer said that it wasnt economical  to repair Miss Ts car. It was categorised  as 
N which  meant it had non structural damage. 
Ageas said it would settle Miss Ts claim as a total loss based on the market value of her 
car, which it said was £1,286.50. Ageas  used  the motor trade  guides  to reach its valuation.
Ageas said that Miss Ts policy didnt provide the option to have a courtesy car if her car was 
a total loss. 
Mr M  on behalf of Miss T  asked us to look at her complaint as she remained unhappy. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. He thought  Ageas 
had dealt with her claim reasonably and in line with the policy.  
Mr M didnt  agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Miss Ts policy says that the most Ageas will pay in the event of a claim is the market value 
of her car at the time of loss. It says it will use insurance industry  recognised guides as well 
as searching for available vehicles for sale to the general public in deciding  a market  
valuation. We dont  decide a market value,  but we can look at whether an insurer  reached its 
decision in a fair way and in line with the policy.
Ageas used two motor  industry trade guides  which Ill call G and C to find an average  
valuation for Miss Ts car. The guides are based on extensive nationwide  research of likely 
selling prices. We find they are more  reliable than adverts as they can provide average  
valuations based  on the same make, model,  age, condition and mileage as Miss Ts car. 
We checked all four of the main motor trade guides.  The valuations  for a car similar to 
Miss Ts ranged  from £1,049 to £1,503. 
The valuations Ageas used ranged from £1,070  (G) & £1,503  (C). So I think  Ageas decision 
to pay a market value of £1,286.50 was fair as its within  the range of the main  motor trade 
guides. 
Ref: DRN20159892Because Ageas paid a total loss settlement for Miss Ts car, the salvage of the car would 
then usually become  Ageas property. So if Miss T wants to keep her car, Ageas is entitled  
to deduct a salvage fee to reflect what it would have  otherwise received from a salvage 
agent.
Ageas said if Miss T wants  to keep her car, the salvage deduction it will take from the total 
loss settlement is £257.30. This is 20% of the market  value  and therefore  within  the range of 
what wed consider  reasonable. 
Miss Ts policy clearly says that if her car is declared  a total loss, she doesnt  have  use of a 
courtesy car. I understand not having a courtesy car caused Miss T inconvenience because  
she needed the car for hospital  appointments. But I cant  say that Ageas has been  
unreasonable because it acted within the terms of Miss Ts policy. And I can see that Ageas 
offered a market value  for Miss Ts car within two weeks of the incident being  reported to it. 
So I think Ageas  dealt with the settlement claim in a timely way.
I understand Miss T will be disappointed  with my decision. But overall I think  Ageas has 
acted reasonably. This means I dont  think  it needs to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2015989