K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained about  her home  insurer U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) regarding  a 
settlement it made to her following her claim for a burst pipe repair.
background
Ms A found the mains  water supply pipe for her home had burst.  The water was switched off. 
She tried to call UKI but was told to call back on Monday 5 February 2018 (when the home  
claims line was open).  
When Ms A called back she told the advisor  several times how cold she was, with no heating  
and hot water. The advisor initially told Ms A shed have to repair  the pipe herself,  but then 
accepted this was something  it would cover. 
Ms A had told the advisor that her contractor was ready to start work.  The advisor, once 
accepting that UKI would cover the pipe repair, told Ms A that she should  wait for its 
plumber, the request  would be urgent  as she had no heating but when its plumber would 
attend couldnt be said. Ms A was told if she used her contractor it might cost her more than 
what UKI would  pay. 
Ms A went ahead with her contractor and the repairs were done the following day 
(6 February  2018). The cost was £3,137.28  (including £380 for tracing and accessing the 
leak), and there was another  bill for replacing  the paving that had been dug up to lay the 
replacement pipe (£1,500). UKI reviewed Ms As charges. It initially  said its cost for carrying 
out work  like this was very low as, per a business  agreement, its contractor caps  its costs.  
Ms A was unhappy.  
UKI reviewed the initial call. It felt it shouldve been  clearer with Ms A  that it hadnt told her 
the full extent of its limit. Nor had it told her she could be placed in alternative 
accommodation until its contractor completed  the repairs and, given  there was no heating or 
hot water, this should have been an option offered to Ms A. Because it hadnt done any of 
that UKI felt it would be unfair for it to restrict its settlement to what  it would have cost it to do 
the work.  So it asked  its contractor to advise what a reasonable settlement, based  on Ms As 
costs, would be.
However, UKI had also noted that some  of the work  Ms A had completed hadnt been  done 
to fix the leak  rather Ms As plumber had replaced  the whole pipe because he felt it might  
develop leaks in the future. So UKI didnt think it should have to pay for any part of Ms As 
costs that related to preventative work   as the policy  doesnt  cover Ms A for that. 
UKI said its final settlement for the claim would be £1,316.40, plus £380 for trace  and 
access, but less the £350 policy excess. Meaning  Ms A would receive £1,346.40 against her 
total cost incurred of £4,637.28. UKI also paid Ms A £650 compensation. Ms A complained 
to us.
Our investigator noted what UKI had paid, that Ms A had been warned about limits during 
the initial call and that some of the costs shed  incurred  related to uninsured (preventative) 
work. She felt payment  in full for trace  and access work was fair as was the payment  of £650 
compensation. She didnt think UKI should  pay anything more.
Ms A remained unhappy. 
Ref: DRN26296062I reviewed the complaint  and told UKI that I felt it should pay more. I noted  that whilst  it had 
asked its contractor to review the settlement  based  on Ms As costs it had consistently  based 
settlement calculations on what it would have cost its contractor to do the work. So I didnt 
think UKI had made a fair settlement taking into account that UKI itself had said it should  pay 
based on Ms As costs.  I said it could have one last chance to review  the costs  but pointed  
out I felt its total settlement (net of excess)  should  be around £3,200, plus interest. UKI 
responded by saying  it shouldnt have to pay based  on Ms As costs  because shed had the 
chance to use its contractor and been warned  about  receiving  only a limited  settlement if she 
didnt. I pointed out to UKI that the claim, by its own admittance, had moved beyond  that 
point. UKI made no further response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepted during this claim that it should settle based on Ms As cost for insured work.  
I dont think tis reasonable  for UKI to seek to revert to a different position now.  
Because UKIs contractor kept reassessing  the costs  based on its charges, UKI hasnt  
shown its settlement  which needed,  by its own admission, to be based  on Ms As costs   
was fair and reasonable. So Ive decided what I feel the fair and reasonable cost would be.
Ms A was told that her claim would need to be validated. This means  UKI needed to check  
the work  Ms A was having, or had done, met the terms of the policy.  When Ms A did the 
work her plumber replaced  the whole pipe that had been affected by the leak  rather than 
repairing or replacing just the affected part of the pipe. Seemingly this was because  the 
plumber felt the rest of the pipe would fail in the short term. Unfortunately for Ms A her policy 
doesnt give her cover  for repair for that reason. And Ive seen no evidence that makes me 
think a good repair of the failed section of pipe couldnt be achieved. The fact that the rest 
might or would likely  fail later isnt something UKI is liable for under the policy.
Ive looked at Ms As invoice for the pipe replacements. The drive was excavated along the 
whole length of the old pipe, and there  was a cost for removing  this pipe and replacing it with 
UPVC as well. The whole  length then had to be re-paved. If the pipe had been repaired or 
locally replaced, there would still have been  some of these costs incurred  or some different 
ones anyway (for the repair instead  or removal and replacement). I have no way of knowing 
what those costs would have been. But I bear in mind the length  in question  is relatively  
short, and it wouldnt take much more to dig out 4 meters than 1 meter, for example. But 
I accept that the cost of re-paving the larger area would differ quite  a lot, because  of the cost 
of materials being  used. Taking these very broad and loose parameters into account  I think  
its fair to say £1,000 can be deducted  for the cost of uninsured work. 
Ms As overall cost was £4,637.28. Deducting the £1,000 from that leaves a sum of 
£3,637.28. From that UKI is entitled to deduct  the policy excess  of £350. That leaves 
£3,287.28 to be paid in total by UKI. Any amount of this UKI has already paid wont have to 
be paid again.  But any amount it does  pay now will be subject to interest*. Interest will be 
due on the amount outstanding as that relates to Ms As bills for work from the date the bill 
amounts were paid until settlement is made.  
Ref: DRN26296063I think UKI got this claim wrong and Ms A suffered some frustration because of that. 
However, UKI paid £650 compensation. I think that is fair in the circumstances.  Im not going 
to make it pay anything more.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, as Im satisfied that U K Insurance  Limited didnt settle Ms As 
claim fairly. However,  Im not going  to make it pay the entirety  of Ms As bills. I require 
U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms A a total of £3,287.28 to settle her claim, less any claim 
settlement amount it has paid already, plus interest*. Interest* will be due on any amount 
outstanding as that relates to Ms As bills for work  from the date the bill amounts were  paid 
until settlement is made.  
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If U K Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Ms A, it should 
tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Ms A a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2629606