K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that the delays in dealing with their Paragon  Bank Plc mortgage 
application led to the vendors pulling out of the sale. They  want their conveyancing fees paid 
and compensation  for loss of income.
background 
On 17 July 2018 Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  broker submitted an application  for a Paragon 
buy-to-let mortgage  as theyd found  a house  of multiple occupation (HMO) property they 
wanted to buy. 
On 25 July a security assessment valuation was carried  out on the property and based on 
that report Paragon  told Mr and Mrs Ws broker on 26 July that it was unable to proceed with 
the application. It said:
We are writing to confirm that we are unable to proceed any further with this application.
The property is in poor condition and not suitable for letting so it is outside  our lending 
criteria.
It is understood that it is the purchasers intention to refurbish being re-letting. There is 
some dishing  of the roof covering and no timber trusses within the roof space. The 
property can be reconsidered  once it has been  refurbished. The applicant  should have 
the roof structure inspected by a structural engineer  and any repairs carried  out prior to 
reapplying for lending.  It should also be noted that the box room is too small to be 
considered for rental purposes  on a HMO basis.
Discussions were ongoing over the next few weeks about what was meant by refurbishment.  
Paragon sent a further letter to the broker on 21 August which  said:
The fact that the property is judged to be in poor condition and in need of further  letting 
[sic] is due to the fact that the roof appears  to require replacement.
We would  need  the applicant to obtain a Structural Engineers report to reconsider our 
decision.
The vendors  had a structural survey  carried  out on 23 August. Mr and Mrs W say that raised 
no issues, but Paragon  wasnt  satisfied with it. On 6 September is said:
It is noted that the report received is a visual survey and does not give any further details 
than the surveyors  assessment.
The property cannot be reconsidered until the works required  have  been  completed.
And on 11 September it said:
Further to your call to the regional manager I can confirm that we require a Structural 
Engineers report regarding the dip in the roof.
Ref: DRN21841982All recommended works will need to be completed and the property will need  a full 
refurbishment to include  a new bathroom and kitchen  and full redecoration before we can 
reconsider the property.
Mr and Mrs W say the vendor pulled out of the purchase due to the delays, and their solicitor 
charged them extra fees for the time the case had been open. Unhappy with what had 
happened, they complained to Paragon.
Paragon apologised  for saying a new bathroom  and kitchen were  needed  when they werent 
and offered £150 compensation for that mistake, other than that it didnt uphold the 
complaint. It also refunded the valuation fee.
Our adjudicator thought Paragons offer was fair in the circumstances as he was satisfied 
Paragon hadnt  done anything else wrong.  Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and so the matter  has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I trust Mr and Mrs W wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point 
its not because  Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
Paragon doesnt  have the expertise to value property,  so it employs the services  of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified  and competent surveyor 
 a requirement that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal  Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors.  
Mr and Mrs W say they lost the property they wanted to buy due to the delay in telling them  
what work needed to be done. Ive considered this point carefully.
A surveyor appointed  to carry out a mortgage  valuation isnt a specialist in all areas that may 
come up with a property. Thats why the surveyor recommended a report be obtained  from a 
structural engineer. Its unfortunate that the report the vendors obtained was only a visual  
structural survey; that is, any coverings werent removed and  as such  [the property] could 
not be fully inspected.
Whilst Mr and Mrs W say the report showed  there  was nothing to worry about,  and that there 
were only issues due to overuse of the loft space, thats not true. The report is, at best, 
inconclusive, giving  three most likely  causes for the roof dishing rather  than any definitive 
answer. 
It also recommends that further investigations, and remedial  strengthening works, be carried 
out. I quote, from the report:
 intrusive investigation is recommended to check  that the existing structure  has not 
been altered in an inappropriate  manner
Ref: DRN21841983Investigation would  entail stripping parts of the fireboard finishes and loft flooring to 
firstly record then analyse the structural elements.
In the short term, intrusive investigation  of the roof and floor timbers  should be 
undertaken along with assessment for structural adequacy.  Any shortcomings should be 
identified along  with any remedial strengthening  works.
It is unfortunate the report couldnt  give any assurances and so recommended  further  
investigations be carried out. Mr and Mrs W have  said Paragon werent clear what 
refurbishments were needed,  but Im satisfied that Paragon has been  clear throughout that it 
needed a definitive structural report about  the roof and any repairs  identified in that carried  
out before  a mortgage application could be considered. As Mr and Mrs W hadnt even 
provided a definitive report  then Paragon  wasnt able to proceed. All mentions of other  
refurbishments  such as a new kitchen and a new bathroom  are moot as even if those 
had been agreed upon and done, there was still the issue with the roof.
Whilst this was a long drawn  out process, having  considered everything I dont think 
Paragon could have  done any more. It told Mr and Mrs Ws broker on 26 July The applicant 
should have the roof structure inspected by a structural engineer  and any repairs carried  out 
prior to reapplying  for lending. And once that report was submitted it said,  on 6 September,  
that the report wasnt sufficient as it didnt give any further information.
Mr and Mrs W have  said their broker told them to look for a mortgage  elsewhere as it was 
unlikely that Paragon would change its mind,  but they chose to continue  appealing as they 
thought Paragon had made a mistake. They say the delays led to their solicitor  charging 
extra fees due to the time the file was open.
Mr and Mrs W explained to our adjudicator  that theyre experienced landlords.  That being 
the case Id expect them to be aware  that mortgage  finance is never guaranteed, and by 
instructing a solicitor  to start legal  work  before a formal mortgage  offer is in place is risky. 
Paragon was clear  on 26 July that it wasnt  willing to proceed - which  was only nine days  
after the application had been made   so I cant hold the lender liable for Mr and Mrs W not 
putting the legal work  on hold at that point.
I appreciate that the process may have been frustrating but I cant reasonably conclude that 
this was the fault of Paragon. Paragon offered £150 compensation (for the confusion about 
what was meant by refurbishment) and a refund of the valuation fee to Mr and Mrs W. I think  
this offer is more than fair in all the circumstances of the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider  the offer made by Paragon  in its final 
response letter to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I leave it to Mr and Mrs W 
to contact Paragon  Bank  plc directly if they wish to accept it (if they havent already done 
so). 
Ref: DRN21841984My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means Ill not 
be engaging  in any further discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 September 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2184198