K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, irresponsibly  increased  his credit card 
limit which was unaffordable.
background
Mr L says Aqua has increased the credit  limit on his credit card on four or five occasions  
over the last few years. He says he has a gambling  problem  and the increases were  
unaffordable and irresponsible  in the circumstances.  Mr L also says he used his credit  card 
for deposits for gambling and had other  credit  at the time which  Aqua  should have 
considered before allowing the increases. He would like all of the interest and charges hes 
paid refunded and Aqua to pay 8% interest  on that amount. He would also like Aqua to 
remove any adverse data from his credit  file.
Aqua doesnt accept  making a mistake  and says it increased the credit limit on Mr Ls 
account from 2014 in line with the account terms and conditions. It says before each 
increase it wrote to Mr L and told him he could contact it to reject any increases. It also says 
it checked each  increase  first using its internal information and information on Mr Ls credit 
file. Aqua says it was unaware of any gambling  problems.
Mr L brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator  didnt think  Aqua had made  a mistake or 
acted unfairly. The adjudicator thought  that Aqua had written to Mr L before each increase 
and given him the opportunity to reject them if he wanted. The adjudicator  also checked Mr 
Ls credit file and thought Mr L had made regular monthly payments and there  wasnt any 
other adverse data recorded on it that should  have alerted  Aqua to any problems. The 
adjudicator didnt think Mr L had told Aqua about  any gambling problems and that 
appropriate checks had been carried out.
Mr L has asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr L will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Aqua wrote to Mr L with details of the proposed  increases to his credit limit 
on five occasions  between 2014 and 2017. Im also satisfied that Mr L had the option of 
rejecting any of the increases if he wished  to so but he didnt. So I dont  think Aqua made a 
mistake by increasing the credit limits in those circumstances and I think it carried out 
checks internally and on Mr Ls credit  file before doing so.
Ive also looked  at Mr Ls credit file and I think it shows that Mr L made regular  repayments  
to Aqua and that there isnt any information on the credit file that suggests the lending was 
unaffordable. So I cant  fairly say the lending was either unaffordable  or irresponsible.
I appreciate Mr L says he has a gambling  problem. But I dont think  he told Aqua  about  that 
problem and so I dont think it could have considered that when it offered Mr L the credit  limit 
increases.
Ref: DRN24113502I accept that Mr L may be in financial difficulties now. In those circumstances I would expect 
Aqua to deal with Mr Ls position positively and sympathetically. And I hope Mr L will 
approach Aqua so that it can deal with him in such a way.
Overall I dont think Aqua has acted  unfairly or made  a mistake and so I cant reasonably 
order it to refund any interest, charges or pay Mr L the interest  he would like. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2411350