K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit  card in November 1999.
background
The policy was added  to Miss Cs credit card account when she applied  for the card online 
via the EGG website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Miss Cs main concern  is that she didn't need PPI as she had other cover set up and she 
could've relied on friends to help out in the event of money  problems. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think Egg made Miss C aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Miss C completed, she had to select the Yes option  to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. So I think shed have known at the time that she couldve 
declined PPI if she hadnt wanted it. And she wouldve had to choose  one of those options in 
order for her application to proceed. Its completely understandable that she mightve 
forgotten some of these details so long after the event. But, on balance,  I find that Miss C 
knew she had a choice  about protecting her card repayments and she wanted to do so at the 
time. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt  have to check if it was suitable  for her. 
Its possible some of the information  Egg gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, next to where Miss C was asked to decide  about the PPI, the cover 
was broadly described, the cost was set out and there was information about  the benefits  
PPI offered.  I think Miss C couldve  have  benefitted  from having  the policy. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event that Miss C was too ill to work. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Miss Cs credit card repayments  if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Although Miss C mentioned having  other cover in place,  this doesnt affect my decision. 
Looking at the information shes given  us, I havent seen anything to show  that the PPI she 
took out with her EGG  card duplicated  existing cover. It looks  to me like other insurance 
shes mentioned  provided a different  sort of benefit  and paid out in different  circumstances  to 
PPI. 
Relying on friends  to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking 
out PPI as everyones circumstances  can change unexpectedly. 
Ref: DRN21692932So I can see why she mightve wanted  to have  PPI. Having PPI wouldve meant Miss C 
could be sure shed  be able to more than cover her Egg card monthly repayments whatever 
her circumstances.
Miss C was eligible  for the policy. There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Miss Cs case.  So, I dont think having  more information 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve affected her decision to take it out. PPI provided  
Miss C with the protection broadly described  on the website which  shed indicated  she was 
willing to pay for.  
I think, when it was trading as EGG, Canada Square  Operations  Limited  couldve explained 
the policy cost better than it did. But, the policy seems to have been affordable for Miss C 
when she took it out. And, looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss C, I think  it 
unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better information  had been provided. On 
balance I think shed  still have taken out the policy. 
This means  Canada Square Operations Limited  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Miss C.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss C 
because: 
Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  tell Miss C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2169293