K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr D says National Westminster Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think its likely NatWest made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. As the PPI 
was taken out such a long time ago, NatWest  hasnt got any of the paperwork,  which  
isnt surprising. But this alone  isnt enough  for me to say Mr D wasnt  given a choice 
about taking out the PPI. And from what I know about how NatWest  sold this type of PPI, 
I think its unlikely Mr D would have been given the impression  he had to have the PPI to 
get the mortgage. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr D got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its likely  he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr D paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest  treated  
him unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr Ds PPI was less than half of what he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ds commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think NatWest treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr D back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN27814092my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2781409