K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) gave her loans that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mrs H took out 5 loans  from Cashfloat.  They are shown in the table below:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing  Date Loan Amount InstalmentsApproximate 
Monthly  
Repayment
1 06/10/2015 350 3165
2 10/01/2016 300 3137
3 18/06/2016 200 2145
4 05/10/2016 500 4193
5 04/02/2017 500 4192
Mrs H says Cashfloat should never have lent to her because she was in financial difficulties 
and couldnt afford to pay back what  she was borrowing.
Cashfloat said it gathered information about Mrs Hs income,  outgoings, short term lending 
and also carried out credit checks to verify these amounts. Cashfloat says from the 
information provided, the loans were affordable for Mrs H.
Mrs Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He concluded  Cashfloat  
had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1-4. He went  on to conclude  that it should  
have carried out further checks for loan 5 and if it had done this, it would have seen Mrs H 
couldnt afford it. So he asked Cashfloat to pay Mrs H compensation. Cashfloat didnt agree 
with that assessment so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Cashfloat, at the time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate  checks to 
satisfy itself that Mrs H would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mrs H would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mrs Hs indebtedness in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Ref: DRN29985762Did Cashfloat act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Cashfloat did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs H and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Cashfloat was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks to see whether Mrs H 
could afford  to pay back the loans before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs H was borrowing and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Cashfloat had to do.
Loans 1-4
Cashfloat says before it lent to Mrs H for Loans  1-4, it asked about her income,  her 
outgoings, short term loans and also carried out credit checks. It said, once it did this that it 
could see Mrs H had enough  disposable  income to afford the monthly repayment.
I can see for each loan that based on what Mrs H told Cashfloat, the monthly repayment 
amounts were affordable. These were her first four loans  with Cashfloat as well. So for these 
two reasons I think the checks it carried out were proportionate. I think  at this point for loans 
1-4 it was reasonable for Cashfloat to rely on Mrs Hs declared information.
Loan 5
But by loan 5, I think Cashfloat should have been  concerned by the pattern and frequency of 
Mrs Hs borrowing to make further checks. I think it should then have looked  closely  at     
Mrs Hs finances and verified in more detail than it had done, on what shed told it.
I think Cashfloat should have been carrying out a full review  of Mrs Hs finances before 
agreeing to lend to her Loan 5. I think Cashfloat should have examined Mrs Hs financial 
circumstances in some detail  perhaps by asking her for evidence of her income and 
outgoings through bank  statements. So I dont think the checks  Cashfloat  did here were 
enough.
I can see within her bank  statements provided to us, that Mrs H was regularly borrowing 
from other payday lenders. The amounts she was repaying each month  along  with her 
regular financial expenditure were much  greater than her income.  I think  that if Cashfloat had 
carried out proportionate checks it would have  discovered this information.  It would  have 
been clear that Mrs H was relying on short term lending  to meet  her normal living expenses 
and to repay other credit.
In conclusion, I think Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks for loans 1-4. But I dont 
think this was the case for loan 5. Proportionate checks  would have shown Cashfloat that 
loans 5 wasnt affordable. So I dont think Cashfloat  should have agreed to give Mrs H loan 5 
and it needs to put things  right.
My final decision
I dont think Western Circle Ltd should have agreed to give Mrs H, Loan 5 so I uphold her 
complaint. So for this loan Western Circle Ltd should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loan 5.
Ref: DRN29985763Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle Ltd to take off tax from this interest. 
Western Circle Ltd must give Mrs H a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2998576