K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W dont  think its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use their 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  compensation to reduce the debt from which  they were 
discharged when their protected  trust deeds  came to an end in 2011.
background 
Mr and Mrs W took out a series of eight  loans with RBS between 1997 and 2003  each loan 
refinanced the previous loan. The first two loans were taken out in Mr Ws name  only while  
the last six were in joint names. They took out PPI alongside these loans to protect their 
repayments. 
In 2007 Mr and Mrs W entered into protected trust deeds. This is an alternative in Scotland 
to bankruptcy  (called sequestration in Scotland). It is a legally binding  agreement between  a 
consumer and their creditors, which is administered by a trustee.
When Mr and Mrs W entered  into the trust deeds,  RBS made  a claim for several thousand  
pounds. RBS didnt chase  for these outstanding sums but it confirmed it wrote off the 
accounts as a result of the trust deed. While RBS didnt chase for the outstanding sums the 
debt still existed. So a substantial amount of debt was left unrecovered from Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W complained to RBS about  the mis-sale of these  policies. RBS upheld the 
complaint about  all the PPI policies and offered to refund the PPI premiums and the extra  
interest that Mr and Mrs W had paid to date together with simple interest to compensate 
them for the time theyd been out of pocket. Mr W signed the acceptance forms for the six 
joint loans. RBS then used his half of the compensation  to reduce the balance of the 
outstanding debt. RBS has said that when it receives acceptance by Mrs W for the joint 
loans and Mr W for the first two loans in his name only it will use the compensation due to 
further reduce  the amount  outstanding.
But Mr and Mrs W dont  think  the PPI compensation they were  offered should be used by 
RBS in this way. They say that as the protected trust deeds long since  ended,  they dont 
owe the money to RBS.  They  have asked that the compensation  be paid directly to them.
Our adjudicator said that she didnt think this complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought that it 
was fair to set off the compensation  against  the sums owed  to RBS. She said that RBS had 
acted in line with our expectations.  Unhappy  with the adjudicators  view,  Mr and Mrs W 
asked that the matter  be referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision so the matter  was 
passed to me.
In October  2019 I issued  my provisional  findings  on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  that I was aware of and had taken into account the 
relevant law. But I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Having done this, I thought  it was fair 
for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the money Mr and Mrs W borrowed and 
didnt repay.
Ref: DRN27120412I did however note that RBS had not responded to Mr Ws correspondence in a timely way 
and I awarded £200  for the trouble and upset this had caused.
Both parties  have now responded to my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs W disagree with my initial findings. Theyve pointed out that RBS mis-sold the 
PPI in the first place  and would have received commission  on the sales,  so they still think it 
unfair for RBS to use the compensation the way it has. Mr and Mrs W have said that other  
businesses have acted  differently in similar situations and paid the consumer the PPI 
compensation directly.  They have also pointed  out that RBS wrote off the debt many years 
ago and have  asked if legally RBS can take action to recover  the debt now,
RBS has clarified some  figures  I quoted  in my provisional decision but otherwise  has agreed 
with my initial findings. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs W but having done  so it remains  my decision 
that it is fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding debt. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly RBS has clarified that its claim in the trust deed was actually £12,875.61 and it has 
used the compensation total of £12,738.37 to reduce the debt to £137.24.
Mr and Mrs W have  asked whether RBS are legally  able to recover the debt due to 
legislation that limits the time it can chase the outstanding amount. But in this case  RBS did 
not actively chase  Mr and Mrs W to settle the debt. Mr and Mrs W approached RBS to 
complain about  the PPI and RBS used the compensation to reduce  the debt. So I dont think  
the Limitations  Act applied in this case.
And while some other businesses may have taken a different approach, RBS has chosen to 
use the compensation to reduce the outstanding debt, and in this decision I am only looking 
at whether what RBS has done is fair. 
Whilst it is true that RBS mis-sold the PPI, the compensation it calculated includes the entire  
cost of the PPI plus compensatory  interest.  So by reducing the outstanding debt by this 
amount it effectively returns Mr and Mrs W to the position theyd  be in if the PPI had not 
been sold.
Within my provisional decision I mentioned that there  were  some court cases about to whom 
PPI compensation  should be paid when a consumer  has been discharged from a protected 
trust deed.  One of the court cases,  Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56. 
The court said RBS couldnt  use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from 
which they were discharged when the trust deed  came to an end. But I explained that this 
was being appealed by RBS  and that the outcome may change.
Since my provisional decision, the appeal  has been heard at the Inner House of the Court of 
Session. In short, RBS lost the appeal and the court reaffirmed the legal position  that RBS 
Ref: DRN27120413couldnt use the compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt  repaid after the trust 
deed ended. The court said when the trust deed  ended the debtor was discharged from her 
debts, so there was no longer any debt owing  from her to the bank which  could be subject to 
set-off.
At this moment it isnt known whether RBS intend to appeal the decision further  to the 
Supreme Court  so there  is a possibility the outcome may change.
However, as explained  within my provisional  decision  I have considered  the relevant law. 
And when  initially  providing my provisional  decision,  I did so when  the law had already found  
in the consumers favour. RBS losing the appeal confirms  the legal position within Scots  law 
about what happens when consumer is discharged from their trust deed  (although  Im 
mindful as Ive said above, RBS maybe  appealing  this further  to the Supreme  Court). But as 
I also explained with my provisional  decision, whilst I take into account  the relevant law  Im 
not bound  to follow it. I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  as required  of me through  FSMA 
Section.228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion it would be unfair for RBS to pay compensation 
directly to Mr and Mrs W  when  Mr and Mrs W, thanks to the trust deed, now wont ever 
have to repay the monies borrowed and left unpaid.
I note RBS has agreed to my suggestion to award Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation 
directly for the trouble  and upset caused  by not answering their correspondence in a timely 
manner.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I find that its fair for The Royal  
Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr and Mrs Ws compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce 
the amount they owed and didnt  repay  when their trust deeds  came to an end. 
I also direct  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr and Mrs W directly  £200 for the 
inconvenience and upset they experienced due to the banks service failings.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs W dont think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use their payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  the debt from which  they were  discharged  when 
their protected  trust deeds came to an end in 2011.
Ref: DRN27120414background
Mr and Mrs W took out a series of eight loans  with RBS between 1997 and 2003 each loan refinanced 
the previous loan. The first two loans  were taken out in Mr Ws name  only while the last six were in 
joint names. They took out PPI alongside these loans to protect their repayments. 
In 2007 Mr and Mrs W entered into protected  trust deeds. This is an alternative in Scotland  to 
bankruptcy (called sequestration in Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer  
and their creditors, which is administered by a trustee.
When Mr and Mrs W entered  into the trust deeds, RBSs total claim  was £16,782.94. RBS didnt 
chase for these outstanding sums but it confirmed it wrote off the accounts  as a result of the trust 
deed. While RBS didnt chase for the outstanding sums the debt still existed.  So a substantial  amount 
of debt was left unrecovered from Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W complained to RBS about  the mis-sale of these policies.  RBS upheld the complaint 
about all the PPI policies and offered to refund the PPI premiums and the extra interest that Mr and 
Mrs W had paid to date together with simple  interest to compensate them for the time theyd been out 
of pocket. Mr W signed the acceptance forms for the six joint loans. RBS then used his half of the 
compensation totalling £6,423.34 to reduce the balance  of the outstanding  debt to £10,359.60. RBS 
has said that when it receives acceptance by Mrs W for the joint loans  and Mr W for the first two loans 
in his name only it will use the compensation due to further reduce  the amount outstanding.
But Mr and Mrs W dont think the PPI compensation they were offered should be used  by RBS in this 
way. They say that as the protected trust deeds long since ended, they dont owe the money to RBS. 
They have asked that the compensation  be paid directly to them.
Our adjudicator said that she didnt think this complaint should be upheld.  She thought  that it was fair 
to set off the compensation  against the sums  owed  to RBS. She said that RBS had acted in line with 
our expectations. Unhappy with the adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs W asked that the matter  be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision so the matter  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
As RBS has upheld Mr and Mrs Ws PPI mis-sale  complaints, in this provisional decision Ive just 
looked at whether what its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. I havent looked  at how the 
PPI policies came to be mis-sold. Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is that RBS has set-off the amount of 
compensation to reduce the loan amount that hasnt been fully repaid rather than paying the 
compensation directly  to them.
So in this decision I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mr and Mrs Ws 
PPI compensation offer to reduce the much higher amount of debt which they were not required to 
repay back to it (and was written off by RBS) after their protected trust deeds were  closed in 2011.
Ref: DRN27120415And in this case the relevant  law I need to take account of is Scottish law. In recent years there have 
been a number of cases looking at what happens to PPI compensation after a trust deed has been 
discharged. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
So in this case the Supreme  Court said that the PPI compensation should  not be paid to the trustees 
for the benefit of the creditors. It said it should  be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case.
In this case I am aware of and have  taken into account the relevant  law. But I must apply an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable  in the particular circumstances  of Mr and     Mrs Ws 
complaint. Having done  this, I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce  the money  
Mr and Mrs W borrowed and didnt repay.
Just because Mr and Mrs W entered into protected trust deeds and they were  discharged  from the 
debt when the trust deeds  ended, doesnt make a difference to what is fair. I think  it would be unfair to 
tell RBS to pay Mr and Mrs W compensation  when  they dont now have to repay  the borrowing which 
is still outstanding.
At the start of the protected trust deed,  the outstanding amount Mr and Mrs W owed RBS was a little 
over £16,782.94. It is important to note that when  a consumer grants a trust deed,  the creditor simply 
pools together any debts the consumer owes it  so it effectively becomes  one amount that is owed. 
And a business will look to see if it owes the consumer anything,  and then adjusts the amount that is 
owed. This would then be the final amount that it puts forward as what is owed  to it as a creditor in the 
trust deed.
While it is the case that RBS agreed to the protected trust deeds, had Mr and Mrs W   or their 
trustees  realised theyd been mis-sold the PPI while the trust deeds were active, then RBS would  
clearly have been entitled to use the PPI compensation  to reduce what they owed it. Or, alternatively, 
it could have  been paid to the trustees  for the benefit  of all their creditors. Importantly Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have got this money  directly. 
The fact that Mr and Mrs Ws protected trust deed had come  to an end before this offer of PPI 
compensation was made doesnt,  in my opinion, make  a difference  to what  is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances here. I dont think anyone would  think it fair to require  RBS to repay  the PPI 
compensation directly  to Mr and Mrs W when they dont now need  to pay back to RBS a bigger 
amount which  they borrowed  from RBS.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation  its offered to 
reduce the outstanding  debt which was written off by RBS following the closure of Mr and Mrs Ws 
protected trust deed.
I note that Mr and Mrs W have said that the sale of the PPI itself caused them an additional financial 
burden which  may have contributed to their financial difficulties and ultimately having to enter the 
Ref: DRN27120416protected trust deeds. Ive thought about this, but Mr and Mrs W took out a chain  of eight  loans over 
six years and the PPI formed a relatively  small part of the loan amounts. So I think that if Mr and Mrs 
W hadnt  been sold the PPI to begin with, its likely  given the amounts involved  that theyd still 
have entered  the trust deeds, but owed less. And this is the position RBSs offer puts them in.   
Finally I note that Mr and Mrs W have  said that RBS handled  their complaint poorly.  RBS has offered 
£75 for service failings. Mr and Mrs W have declined  this offer. This was a complicated case involving 
eight different loans over six years, some in joint names and others in Mr Ws name only.  So it would 
have been important that Mr and Mrs W received clear answers to their complaints. I can see that in 
particular Mr W didnt  receive  a response  to his complaints about the two loans in his name and that 
when he called RBS for copies his requests were  not actioned. I think this would have caused Mr and 
Mrs W some inconvenience and upset and I think a fair amount of compensation  would be £200. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is that I am currently minded to decide  that its 
fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr and Mrs Ws compensation for the mis-sold  PPI to 
reduce the amount they owed and didnt repay when  their trust deeds came to an end. 
I am also minded to direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr and Mrs W directly £200 for the 
inconvenience and upset they experienced due to the banks service  failings.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2712041