K820x#14Complaint
Mr E complains that Origen Financial Services Limited provided a flawed recommendation in 
respect of the potential  transfer of his employers Defined Benefits pension scheme (DBS).
Background
Mr Es former employer wrote  to him in 2017  setting out the options available  in respect of 
the benefits he held in its DBS. It also offered to pay to have a financial adviser review the 
DBS so that he could explore the possibility of transferring his benefits  away to a personal 
pension. The business who would  be providing  the advice was Origen Financial Services  
Limited (Origen).
Mr E engaged Origen to carry out a review. Origen considered Mr Es financial 
circumstances and objectives at the time,  to determine if he might  be better off transferring 
his benefits from the DBS to another arrangement. It presented its recommendation in a 
Retirement Options report dated  12 January 2018.  It recommended Mr E remain  in his DBS 
as it thought it was unlikely  hed be better  off by transferring his benefits to a personal 
pension  Mr E accepted  this recommendation.
In June 2018 Mr E was informed that his employers parent company, which  Ill refer to as 
N, had entered  into a Company Voluntary  Arrangement (CVA). He was told his DBS would 
be assessed to enter  the Pension Protection Fund  (PPF).
Mr E complained to Origen, saying that it ought  to have  known  N was in financial difficulty  
which was evident  from the most recent  accounts filed  and highlighted this to him in the 
report. He thought Origen ought  to have recommended  he transfer out of the DBS for this 
reason.
Origen didnt agree  that it had misled  Mr E. It said it had engaged an independent business, 
D to carry out a creditworthiness check of N, which determined N was in a strong, stable  
position with a strong likelihood of continued  operations. Origen said Ds assessment was 
based on the information available to it at the time and it couldnt have predicted that it would 
enter a CVA.  It maintained its advice that Mr E remain in the DBS was suitable based on his 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
Mr E referred his complaint to our service. He said it was unreasonable for D to conclude  N 
was in a strong position given it had posted a loss of £23 million and its asset base was 
reduced to around  £500,000. He said if hed known this information he wouldve transferred 
his benefits out of the DBS, and he now faced a possible reduction of benefits at retirement.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she thought Origens advice was suitable for 
Mr E. She thought Origen was entitled  to rely on the findings of D as to Ns creditworthiness  
and in any event,  it had highlighted to Mr E that the pension  scheme  was underfunded. She 
didnt think this had given Mr E any concern at the time and overall there were no compelling  
reasons to advise  him to transfer  out of the DBS.
As Mr E didnt accept  this, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN24144732My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
The key issue to determine here is whether Origens  recommendation that Mr E remain in 
his former  employers DBS was suitable.  Mr E acknowledges  the regulators position that 
advisers should start by assuming that a transfer  out of a DBS will not be suitable.  But he 
believes if Origen had carried out its own due diligence of N, it wouldve recommended he 
transfer out of the scheme.  Or at the very least he said the financial position of the company 
ought to have been drawn to his attention  so he could  make an informed choice.
Given the regulators starting position  and Mr Es circumstances and objectives at the time of 
the advice, I think  Origens recommendation was suitable. I say this based on the 
information gathered  by Origen at the time, which includes the fact-find  and risk tolerance 
questionnaire. This shows Mr E had no immediate need to access  any of his pension  funds, 
he wanted to ensure  his future  retirement income  wasnt put at risk and he didnt  specifically 
require flexibility in retirement. Mr E had an interest  in a limited  company  which  he intended  
to sell in the future. He thought this would provide him with sufficient funds to enjoy  a 
comfortable retirement, with the income from his DBS providing the bedrock  of his target 
retirement income.
Origen provided a transfer value analysis service  (TVAS) report with its recommendation. 
This showed that based on the transfer  value being  offered to Mr E, if he wanted  to retire at 
his preferred age of 63, his investments would need to grow  by approximately 16% per year 
(the critical yield)  to purchase an annuity that would match  the benefits provided  by his DBS.  
Given that Mr E didnt want to take unnecessary risk with his pension funds, preferring 
security over higher  growth, a growth  rate of 16% per year wouldnt reasonably  be 
achievable. So, I dont  think  it wouldve  been reasonable to recommend he transfer his 
guaranteed benefits away  from the DBS as he would almost certainly be worse off as a 
result.
Mr E says that irrespective of what Ive set out above, Origen ought to have recommended  
he transfer his benefits  away from the DBS because of Ns financial position.  He believes 
Origen failed to carry out its own proper due diligence of N. But Im satisfied Origen did 
enough. It engaged the services of D, an independent business authorised  by the industry  
regulator to conduct business credit checks, to carry out a creditworthiness  check of N. It is 
common practise in the industry for financial  advisers to engage specialist businesses like D 
to verify the creditworthiness  of a company as part of its due diligence. And I think  it was 
reasonable for Origen  to engage D to carry out the check  here.
D provided a detailed report, which took into consideration the most recent financial 
accounts (for the year ending December 2016). It stated  in its view, N was in a very stable  
condition and had a strong  likelihood  of continued operations.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Origen to rely on Ds expertise here. I say this because 
D was regulated and a reputable company and because the report addressed the financial 
issues facing the company  and still determined it to be strong. I dont think there was 
anything that would  have alerted a financial adviser (who is not an expert  in general 
business creditworthiness) that the DBS may go to the PPF. And I dont think it needed to 
carry out any further assessment of Ns financial position, particularly as this is only one 
Ref: DRN24144733consideration of many  when providing pension  transfer advice. And as Ive said above, 
Origen didnt recommend  Mr E transfer his benefits away from the DBS as it concluded that 
Mr E would most likely  be worse off if he did so. I think that conclusion was reasonable.
Im also mindful that Origen provided  appropriate  warnings about  Ds assessment:
This measure does  focus on the current position  of [N] however, you will need  to consider 
whether the scheme is going to be able to pay your pension for the rest of your lifetime. 
While we can review the current state  of the company it is very difficult  to foresee what 
events could unfold during your lifetime.
With this in mind, Mr E couldve reviewed Ns accounts himself if he had concerns about the 
ongoing viability of the company. However, this didnt appear  to be of concern to him, 
despite having been told the pension scheme was underfunded and would require significant 
extra contributions from N over the following  years  to meet its liabilities. I cant  see that he 
asked the adviser  about the implications  of this or questioned the companys financial 
position.
Origen wouldve  known  that N had posted  a loss in its most recent accounts, having been 
provided with the extensive report from D. But it wasnt required to come to its own 
conclusion about  the creditworthiness of N. As Ive said above,  I think it was entitled  to rely 
on Ds opinion that N had a strong likelihood of continued operations. I also dont think it 
needed to highlight the information available in the accounts to Mr E, given  this information 
had already been taken  into account in Ds report and was also available  to view online. 
I understand why Mr E feels  hes been  treated unfairly given how soon N entered  the CVA 
after the advice  was given. And I know this leaves him in a difficult  position.  But I think 
Origen provided suitable advice overall, having carried  out the checks  I wouldve expected  
into the creditworthiness of N.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2414473