K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint against Standard Life Assurance  Limited is about  a transfer that was 
arranged from his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to then buy an annuity.  He says it 
was mis-sold and he has lost out financially as a result.
background
Mr A contacted Standard Life in September 2011  to discuss  his pension options.  He said he 
would likely  fail a health test at work and would be made redundant. He asked if he could 
draw his pension  early due to ill-health. And he was told that it might  be possible but 
Standard Life needed more information  from him. 
Mr A called Standard  Life again in October 2011.  He said hed been  made redundant and 
wanted to transfer  his pension. He said the other pension was offering an ill-health pension 
of £395 a year. He said he wasnt using the services of a Financial Adviser.
Standard Life contacted  Mr A again to discuss the matter near the end of October  2011.    
Mr A said hed already  arranged the transfer. He said hed called the OPS and they had sent 
him the relevant forms which he had sent to Standard Life. It was agreed Standard Life 
would call him again when it received the paperwork.
There was a further call where the transfer  was discussed. The Standard  Life employee 
strongly advised Mr A to obtain advice as it was a transfer from a final salary scheme. He 
said this type of transaction was complex,  and he explained that Mr A would lose guarantees 
and other  benefits  provided by the OPS by transferring.
In a further call Mr A was told he met the criteria  for ill health, and he went  through annuity 
quotations. He was told that the figures could change  on a daily basis, but as an estimate 
and based on a value of the plan as £13,651.22 he would get a tax-free lump sum of 
£3,412.80.
The transfer value  of £13,879  was received  by Standard Life in February  2012.  
Mr A subsequently became concerned about the transfer and complained to the firm. 
Standard Life didnt uphold his complaint and he referred the matter to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  However  she didnt think  it should  be upheld.  She 
noted that Mr A had approached his occupational  pension scheme  to see what  pension it 
would pay to him at that time. And the benefits payable by Standard  Life were comparable  to 
those from the OPS in financial  terms. However the Standard  Life plan would pay a tax-free  
lump sum  whereas the OPS wouldnt.  So she thought this would have been more  useful to 
Mr A given his circumstances at the time.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators assessment. He said the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had already reprimanded Standard Life for its sales practices, and we hadnt 
taken his mental health difficulties into account. He said he shouldnt  have been allowed to 
go ahead  with the transfer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN21104602I understand that Mr A was in a very difficult position  at the time that he arranged  the transfer  
- he had a number of problems both with his mental health and financially. So I accept he 
may not have been in a good frame of mind  at the time he decided to transfer.  
However Mr A hadnt reached the age of 50 in 2011 (the age at which  he could ordinarily 
have taken his pension at that time) and his options were  limited. Whilst Mr A thinks  that he 
was mis-sold and he was led to make the wrong decision that has now caused him loss, I 
dont think there was a clearly more beneficial way forward for him. 
Mr A contacted his OPS  and they provided information about  the ill-health pension  that it 
would pay if he took his benefits  directly  from it in 2011. It said he could take a pension  
immediately of £360.94 per year (and this included  a dependants pension following his 
death of £274.64 a year).  
The yearly  pension payable from Standard  Life was lower   about £315 (£26 a month).  
However it also paid an immediate tax-free  lump  sum to Mr A of around  £3,500.  
Mr A was told by Standard Life that it operated a non-advice  based  service. And as it was 
dealing with him direct it could provide  information  but couldnt  provide advice. Im satisfied it 
made this clear to Mr A, and it urged him to seek financial  advice. 
However I accept that Mr A wasnt in a good  place; if he was suffering from depression and 
had mental health  difficulties,  this might have affected his judgment and ability to make 
sensible decisions. It may have caused  him to make a poor decision that he wouldnt 
otherwise have made, particularly given he wasnt receiving financial advice. 
But although  I accept  that was a risk, I dont think his difficulties did actually cause  him to 
make a poor decision in the particular circumstances of this case. As Ive said, his options  
were limited.  And although I understand Mr A would find a higher pension now very welcome 
(if he hadnt  transferred and taken benefits  in 2011), Im satisfied, like the investigator, that at 
the time the £3,500 paid as a tax-free  lump sum would have been very useful. So I dont 
think the evidence  suggests that Mr A made an ill-informed decision at the time given all his 
circumstances.
Standard Life did review the annuity in 2018.  But this was because it had failed to take into 
account his health when  the annuity was arranged  and if it had he would have been 
eligible for a slightly  higher  pension. It paid Mr A the back  payments plus interest and 
increased his annuity  to what it should have been  £361. This would have been almost 
identical to the starting  yearly pension paid by the OPS. So although Standard Life made a 
mistake, it was not about the transfer,  or Mr A taking his benefits early; it was about the 
amount of annuity  he was entitled to be paid. And it has now put that matter right.
I realise that Mr A will be very disappointed with my decision. And I dont want  to 
underestimate all his difficulties. But taking everything into account,  I dont  think  he was led 
into making a poor decision   despite all his difficulties. And I dont think Standard Life made  
an error in allowing the transfer  given Mr As particular circumstances at the time.
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN21104603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2110460