K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains Arvato Financial Solutions  Limited (AFS) have treated him unfairly. He says 
it hasnt properly communicated with all parties  and as a result his credit file has been 
adversely affected.  
background
On 27 August 2013, Mr H took out a loan with a third party  provider. On 16 October 2014, 
AFS bought the debt from the original lender and began to contact Mr H to discuss 
repayments.
Mr H says he was experiencing financial and health difficulties at the time he took out the 
original loan. He feels the lender was irresponsible in lending to him at that time. He says he 
has tried to raise this complaint with AFS but it failed  to address his concerns. Mr H then 
paid off the loan but AFS failed to update the original lender and then, despite his best 
efforts, continuously failed  to communicate with him or the original lender.
This left Mr H feeling very frustrated and upset at not being  able to resolve the situation.  He 
feels the whole situation has been mismanaged and he has been treated unfairly. He wants  
AFS to remove the default from his credit  file and provide a response  as to why it hasnt 
dealt with his complaint.
AFS says it acted in good faith when  it bought  the debt from the original lender. It wasnt  
made aware  of any disputes or complaints.  After  purchasing the debt,  it pursued  its legal 
right to collect the outstanding debt. It says it only received one email correspondence from 
Mr H on 7 February 2019, to which it responded on 19 February 2019 requesting further 
information. It says it didnt receive a response.
In its final response,  issued 23 April 2019 after Mr H contacted this service.  It explained  it 
couldnt look into any complaint regarding irresponsible lending, as it wasnt  the original 
lender. It also said it had updated the credit reference agencies  regarding  a partial 
settlement of the outstanding balance.  It explained  whilst it had agreed to the partial 
settlement and wouldnt be pursuing Mr H for the balance, it could only record  it as such with 
the credit  reference  agencies. In order to have the debt settled in full Mr H would need to pay 
the full balance. It didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
An adjudicator looked into things for Mr H. He explained he couldnt  look into the issue  of 
irresponsible lending  as AFS hadnt  been the original  lender so he looked at how AFS had 
communicated with Mr H and reported  any information to the credit  reference agencies. He 
concluded AFS had acted  fairly  and reasonably and so he didnt ask it to do anything  further.
Mr H disagreed. He feels strongly that AFS mishandled the debt and were impossible to deal 
with. He feels the credit report remains incorrect as the defaults and arrangements  were 
recorded incorrectly. He asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information afresh 
from both parties. Having done  so, Im in agreement  with the adjudicators  view.  I know this 
will disappoint Mr H. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN23841532Firstly, I appreciate Mr H has been  waiting sometime for a decision for and I thank him for 
his patience. Its important to gather  all the relevant  information regarding a complaint and 
this can take some  time. Id like to reassure Mr H, Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill concentrate  my comments  on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I think  is more 
likely to be the case based on the information available.
I understand Mr H feels very strongly about the irresponsible lending  aspect of this 
complaint. As the adjudicator explained  this isnt something, I can look into here, as AFS 
wasnt the original  lender.  I understand Mr H has taken this up a separate  matter with the 
lender in question. So, Ill only be looking at AFS and whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in this matter.
Ive looked carefully  at the system notes provided  by AFS and there is only one email  
correspondence dated 7 February  2019. Mr H has also provided a copy  of the same email. I 
can see AFS responded on 19 February 2019 requesting further information,  which  it doesnt  
appear to have received. From what I can see, AFS responded in a reasonably timely 
manner to Mr Hs correspondence.
The system notes show five payments of £4.00,  which from the information provided appear  
to be the payments Mr H made through a debt management company. From what  hes said 
this became problematic and the debt management company went  into liquidation. I can 
appreciate this must have been  very frustrating for Mr H, but I cant  fairly hold AFS 
responsible for issues with the debt management company.  Mr H then made a partial  
settlement of the outstanding debt. This left an outstanding balance of £426.23 to pay before 
the loan is fully repaid. AFS agreed to write  off that balance and it has said it has no intention 
to chase Mr H in order to recover  it. 
I understand that as Mr H has reached  a settlement with AFS he would like his credit  
reference file to show the debt has been settled. AFS are required to update  credit  reference 
agencies with accurate  and up to date information. Ive seen the correspondence from AFS 
to confirm it has updated them to show the debt has been partially settled.  This is line with 
the guidance from the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO).  It shows how lenders should  
record information to the external credit reference  agencies. The guidelines  say if a debt was 
defaulted but later partially satisfied, it should  show the default and reflect how the debt was 
settled. Im satisfied AFS have informed the credit  reference agencies correctly  and so Im 
not able to ask it to remove the default or change the status  of partially  settled as that is a 
true reflection of the account.
On balance, I havent seen anything to suggest AFS hasnt communicated  to with Mr H or 
the credit  reference  agencies  in a fair and reasonable manner  and so I wont be asking it to 
do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN23841533Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2384153