K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has mishandled  
refinancing a credit agreement for a car he had via a Personal Contract Plan.
background 
In April 2015 Mr M obtained a car via a Personal  Contract Purchase  (PCP)  with VWFS  for 
42 months.  
In August  2018  VWFS wrote to Mr M to advise there was only a month left of the contract 
and gave him options about what actions were  now open to him. It said Mr M could either 
exchange the car for another or keep his current car. If Mr M wished to retain the car he 
would need to pay the final balloon  payment  of £1,800 which  he could pay either as a lump 
sum or he could refinance this remaining balance. 
Mr M wrote to VWFS  and said he would  like to refinance the balance  over a 24 month 
period. He also said that he would be out of the country until September  2018. 
Mr Ms application was processed and a link was sent to him via email  so that he could 
access the finance documents. The finance was agreed but this was subject to Mr M 
providing proof of identity  and returning  the application to VWFS. 
The link was sent to Mr M but 10 days later VWFS hadnt received his signed documents  so 
it phoned him and left a voicemail  message. The link was also emailed for a second  time. 
The following  day Mr M called VWFS and asked that it speak with his wife, Mrs M. Mrs M 
told VWFS that an attempt had been  made  to take the balloon  payment from their bank 
account and that they were unhappy  this had happened. VWFS  apologised and offered £30 
as compensation  for this error. Mrs M requested that the finance paperwork be sent as hard 
copies in the post.
At the end of September  2018 a letter  went to Mr M informing him that the account was now 
in arrears by £1,800.  
At the beginning  of October 2018 VWFS sent Mr M the finance paperwork in the post. This 
letter advised Mr M he had 14 days to send it back and warned that failure to do so may 
result in the £1,800 payment becoming  due immediately. 
Two days later Mr M contacted VWFS and queried the arrears letter. VWFS  said this was 
sent because  there  had been attempt to collect the £1,800 from his account which  had 
failed. It agreed that if this was recorded on his credit file VWFS would correct that once the 
balance had been paid. 
However, VWFS then sent Mr M a letter saying his account balance had been  cleared and 
he was the owner  of the car. VWFS says this letter was sent because the attempted 
collection of the balloon payment from Mr Ms account was shown as successful and the 
letter was generated automatically. This was incorrect as the payment wasnt taken and a 
letter was sent the following day confirming that the £1,800 was in fact still outstanding. 
One week later Mr M sent back the finance  documents but he didnt include a copy of proof 
of identity. VWFS wrote to him asking that this be provided for the application  to proceed. 
Ref: DRN21923302One week later VWFS  sent Mr M his annual statement  which confirmed the £1,800  was still 
outstanding. 
In October  and November  2018 VWFS attempted to make contact with Mr M by phone, letter  
and email. Mr M didnt provide a copy of his identity  document and so at the end of 
November VWFS closed his refinance application. And a default notice was sent to him 
advising he needed to make payment by mid December  2018 to avoid termination of his 
agreement. 
Mr M wrote to VWFS  and complained that he found its letters  and documentation  confusing 
and stressful, saying  hed received a letter confirming the account had been cleared and  
would now have to seek legal advice. 
VWFS opened a complaint but then closed it as the necessary documents hadnt been  
provided for the refinancing to proceed. In January 2019 the agreement was terminated. 
Mr M complained to this service. He said hed believed that the letter  telling him the account 
had been settled had been VWFS waiving the outstanding payment due to its poor service. 
He says he provided the documentation required and found the letters sent from different 
departments confusing.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.  He said although 
he could understand why Mr M wouldve found  the correspondence  confusing at times  the 
outstanding balance on the car was still due. VWFS  had issued a letter explaining that the 
debt had been settled by mistake and provided  £30 compensation for trying to take the direct 
debit in error. 
The investigator said VWFS had provided evidence of its attempts to make  contact  with Mr 
M and he thought  it would have been reasonable for Mr M to have made  contact with VWFS  
and ask what was required, particularly if hed found  the various letters  confusing. 
The investigator also said there wasnt any evidence the proof  of identity had been sent to 
VWFS. And he didnt  think VWFS had acted  unreasonably so he wouldnt ask it to do 
anything more. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said he didnt receive  the hardcopy of the 
finance paperwork in the post and that he had provided proof of identity as required. Mr M 
says his wife spoke with VWFS  on several  occasions and was told not to worry as the 
monthly payments  had been accepted. It had been  confusing to receive letters demanding 
the payment of the full £1,800 and then a letter saying  the account had been  settled. He had 
never received written  confirmation  saying the letter informing him the account  had been 
settled was sent in error. Mr M said wasnt fair that charges had been added  to the 
outstanding balance as this was the result of VWFSs handling of the matter.
As the parties cant  agree the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says the information provided by VWFS  about  its contact with him and his wife wasnt  
accurate. Ive seen  the contact notes provided by VWFS which I think  appear 
Ref: DRN21923303comprehensive. I havent seen any evidence of letters sent by Mr M or his wife and I cant 
see that VWFS ever received the missing documentation to allow it to proceed with Mr Ms 
refinance application.
Its agreed that Mr M requested the refinance option for his car and this process was started 
in September  2018. I can see that Mrs M informed VWFS that they had sent the forms back 
when she phoned  to complain about  VWFS attempting to take the balloon payment from Mr 
Ms bank account at the end of September 2018. During this phone  call VWFS  apologised 
and offered the £30 compensation. It also told Mrs M it had been having difficulty making 
contact with them and that the paperwork hadnt  been received. It was agreed that refinance 
paperwork would be sent out in the post.
A few days  after this call VWFS wrote  to Mr M to tell him the account had been settled. 
VWFS says this was an error following the unsuccessful attempt to collect  the payment from 
Mr Ms bank account and the system  wrongly recording that the payment had been taken.
I havent seen  a letter from VWFS to Mr M explaining that this letter  was sent in error but 
from the day after this letter  until January  2019  Mr M was sent a number of letters  and 
statements setting out that the account  was in arrears of £1,800.  VWFS also attempted  to 
call Mr M and sent emails and three other  letters about the missing  proof  of identity. Mr M 
didnt raise his confusion over the October letter saying the account was settled  until 
December 2018.
I appreciate Mr M was sent letters and emails about the missing proof of identity and also 
letters and statements about the outstanding balance which wouldve been confusing, but I 
think it was clear that there was an outstanding balance on the account  after the letter  sent 
saying it had been settled.
I also think it wouldve been  reasonable for Mr M to have raised any confusion  before 
December 2018.  The letters,  emails  and call attempts  by VWFS show that there were 
concerns about  Mr Ms account and that the refinance agreement hadnt been  set up. This 
was also confirmed by the two statements sent in October and November and the default 
notice that was sent at the end of November 2018. 
Looking at the history  of contact Im unable to say that VWFS didnt  make  reasonable efforts  
to speak with Mr M. I appreciate he says there were conversations between  Mrs M and 
VWFS in an effort to sort this out that havent been noted, but I dont have any evidence  that 
the required proof of identity was ever received by VWFS despite its efforts  to obtain it. I also 
cant say that other than the one letter it sent early in October  2018  that VWFS gave Mr M 
the impression  that his account was settled and he wasnt required to take any action.
I think it was reasonable  in the circumstances for VWFS to close Mr Ms refinance 
application at the end of November 2018  and terminate his agreement  in January 2019.  Im 
not asking VWFS to take any further action  and Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  I 
appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr M and that he will have to deal with another  
company to resolve the matter.  I would expect this matter to be dealt with sympathetically 
and any repayment  plans set to be appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN21923304Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2192330