K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  didnt redeem two 
secured loans when their property was repossessed and sold.  Mr and Mrs P would like a full 
explanation of Halifaxs actions
background
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with Halifax and two other secured loans. They  also had a 
second charge  with another lender  I shall call Lender A. Lender  A repossessed  and sold Mr 
and Mrs Ps property in 2014 and paid off the Halifax mortgage on the property. The two 
secured loans which had balances of in excess of £25,000 each werent redeemed and were 
now unsecured. 
In April Halifax wrote  to Mr and Mrs P to say that it wasnt going to ask them to pay one of 
the loans ending 676 and its balance  was updated  to zero.  But although the bank indicated  
that it might do the same  with the second loan, it didnt do so. The bank wont say why one 
loan has been  cancelled and the other  not. Mr and Mrs P say that both loans should  have  
been redeemed.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she didnt feel that 
the bank had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs P disagree and asked for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P would like to know  more about what their house was sold for in 2014,  why it 
didnt pay all their secured debts and why Halifax has written off one of their debts. The 
problem they face is that Halifax didnt sell the house but the second charge  holder  Lender A 
did. The usual process is that Lender  A would  enquire from the mortgage holder what  
charges it had on its property, Lender  A would have to pay the first charge but would only 
pay off the further  charges if it had any surplus  money. 
As Halifax didnt sell the property it doesnt  have the answers to Mr and Mrs Ps questions 
about the sale of the property. I see that in its letter of 6 July 2016 Halifax told Mr and Mrs P 
that if they had any queries about the sale of the property that they should contact Lender A.
After the sale of the property, the secured loans werent redeemed and so they would then 
be unsecured loans owed by Mr and Mrs P. Halifax decided  to write off one of those loans  
but wont say why for what  it calls business sensitive reasons. As the writing-off  of the loan 
obviously benefits Mr and Mrs P I cant say that Halifax has caused  them  any loss if it 
doesnt disclose  its reasons  for doing  so. So, I dont think its unfair of Halifax not to do so. 
The other loan still appears to be due by Mr and Mrs P. Clearly if they are in financial 
difficulties, Halifax should be positive and sympathetic to Mr and Mrs P. But for the reasons 
set out, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN26987702my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2698770