K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained National Westminster Bank Plc is expecting  her to pay a debt after a 
cheque bounced  on her account.  She didnt pay in this cheque  or make the transactions out 
of her account using  the money.
background
Miss R opened an account  with NatWest in October 2018 as she wanted  to take the benefit  
of the switching offer and use the insurance package. She used the account in the normal  
way for most people  of her age  with regular small card transactions  and irregular payments 
into the account.
On 1 January  2019 Miss R contacted NatWest as she was having difficulty accessing her 
online banking. At this time she was able to read out her long card number. The following 
day after another call, NatWest  ensured  she could access  her account. A cheque  for £5,600  
was paid into her account  on 7 January.  On 11 January Miss R phoned NatWest to complain  
about three large payments  made  out of her account. She said she hadnt made these.
Miss R told NatWest shed lost her debit  card on 31 December. She also told them shed lost 
her phone. After  reviewing the evidence, NatWest  felt Miss R had allowed these transactions 
to be made  from her account. As the cheque had bounced, NatWest was now expecting  
Miss R to repay  the debt on her account.
Miss R was very upset  she wasnt being  believed and worried about  how she was to pay 
what NatWest said was owed. She brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence which included NatWests  logs showing when Miss R 
accessed her online  banking. He felt overall  Miss R had allowed a third party to use her 
account, pay in a cheque and make  payments out of it. He then went  on to consider whether 
NatWest should  have done more  in either identifying the cheque  as potentially  fraudulent  
earlier and chasing  the £5,300 paid out of Miss Rs account to three other bank accounts. He 
eventually decided not. He wasnt going  to ask NatWest to do anything further.
Miss R was concerned  at the impact  of this on her. Shes asked an ombudsman  to consider 
her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making 
here. So when  we look at whether a bank  has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
Ref: DRN29538912themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened and whether NatWest were  correct to hold Miss R 
liable for the debt on her account, Ive looked  at the evidence of the transactions including  
the cheque, as well as what both NatWest and Miss R have shared with us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each  partys testimony and how the transactions  
were made were covered in our investigators  views of 6 September and 11 October 2019. I 
dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects 
which form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Miss R and NatWest  Ive read the file 
thoroughly and considered all the issues raised.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Miss Rs mobile and online banking records show regular checking throughout the 
period of the disputed transactions.
There was a change  in IP addresses  being  used from 6 January onwards until part-
way through 11 January 2019.  Although  the IP address Miss R used to access  her 
account often  differed,  there  was a marked difference  during this period.
A cheque was paid into Miss Rs account  on 7 January  2019.  Although  Miss R has 
said her debit card went missing, this doesnt  alone explain why an unknown party 
would know her sort code and account number to credit  this cheque to her account.
In any case she definitely still had her debit card on her on 1 January as she was 
able to read out the long card number. She couldnt  have done  this if shed lost her 
card the day before  as shes claimed.  I did consider whether it was likely Miss R had 
remembered the card number. But Miss R separately told us she had a record of her 
PIN on her phone so that suggests she may have struggled to recall a 16-digit 
number without a prompt.
On 8 January  two new payees were set up on Miss Rs account. On 9 January  two 
small transfers were made  to these new payees. On 11 January two payments of 
£1,000 and £2,000  are made to those two individuals.  A further payee is set up and 
£2,300 is sent to that account.
Miss R retracted her story about  having  lost her phone when she brought her 
complaint to our service. Ive considered she felt pressured by NatWest to explain 
what had happened and didnt mean to tell them this. I accept this may well have 
been the case. She also changed  her story about  whether  her card was missing.
Its clear that at the time Miss R reported  what had happened to NatWest,  they didnt  
take any immediate  action to try and reclaim  her funds. They say this was because  
this was their policy.
However as it turns  out they were still able to successfully  find £250 from one of the 
payee accounts many months  after so I do wonder what  may have happened if 
theyd taken action  sooner.
NatWest didnt think there was anything unusual about the cheque to suggest  they 
should have taken a closer look at this. I agree with them.  I may have taken a 
different view, however, if thered been a series of cheques paid in. This might have 
caused alarm bells to ring.
This issue   regardless of the part Miss R played in it  will have a long-lasting  
impact on her and leave her with a large  debt to pay whilst  she is young and 
potentially vulnerable.
Ref: DRN29538913It is not unusual  for young people to be persuaded to get involved in something  similar  to 
what happened here. They allow someone else to use their account to transfer fraudulent  
money in and then give their card and PIN (along with online banking details) to allow cash 
to be withdrawn or transferred. Whats happening  here is money laundering.
In similar  cases  what we see is people, purporting to be friends,  persuade  in some cases 
using more forceful ways  than others   account  holders. Theyre  generally told nothing will 
go wrong, and as they dont make the transactions themselves, banks cant  hold them liable  
as no money will be left for the bank to take. 
This isnt true. The relevant  legislation is the Payment Services  Regulations which talks 
about the payment service user  Miss R in this context   making or authorising  someone  
else to make transactions.
Theyre generally also not told of the risk if something goes wrong   so for example, the 
cheque bounces and the account-holder  is left with a substantial debt. This debt  and the 
default that follows will stay for six years  and will have an impact  on the account-holders 
ability to get credit.
I have reviewed whether  there were potentially other scenarios which could  explain  what  had 
happened. Yes, someone could  have taken Miss Rs card and accessed her online banking 
details from her phone.  But I dont know why they would target  her as they couldnt have 
known she wouldnt say anything to her bank until 11 January. Its clear whoever used 
Miss Rs account didnt think theyd be found out as they made two trial payments on 
9 January and felt comfortable in waiting  two days before making the larger  transfers.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I believe Miss R authorised these transactions. 
This doesnt mean she made them herself,  but I do believe she knew about and authorised 
them. I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further.
I appreciate Miss R is not going to agree with this outcome but overall based on the 
evidence I think this is the most likely  scenario.
I am aware  of the difficulties she will now have in having to repay  NatWest.  They  will carry 
out a financial  assessment  to decide what she can fairly and reasonably afford to repay 
towards this debt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Rs complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2953891