K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs W and Mr H payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs W and Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  17 years ago and almost none  of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall  in 
detail everything  that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is.
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mrs W and Mr H have  said they were  told they had to have PPI to get their mortgage.  
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of this. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has 
done something wrong, fairness requires that the person  making the allegation should 
present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt  do something,  especially when it was such  a long time ago. It would be 
more usual for the PPI to have been mentioned in the documents  at the time, and I think its 
more likely this is what happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice, even if Mrs W 
and Mr H dont now remember it. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say Mrs W and 
Mr H were told they had to have PPI.
 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but, 
as Ill now explain,  I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland probably recommended  the PPI to Mrs W and Mr H, and this means 
it had a higher  standard to reach  during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs W and Mr Hs particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs W and 
Mr Hs situation at the time. I say this because:
Ref: DRN24759592Its likely  Mr H (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
Finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr H received  any employer sick 
pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition  to 
any redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when Mrs W and Mr H would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other  living costs.  
This all would have  put Mrs W and Mr H in a more secure  position,  if theyd eventually 
lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment.
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. 
So, overall, I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation 
was suitable.
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mrs W and Mr H took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mrs W and Mr H would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation  
changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2475959