K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited sold him insurance that wasnt  
suitable, and now he cannot claim for repairs to his house.
background
Mr C took out property insurance in 2014 using an aggregator website and was re-directed 
through to One Calls online system to complete the purchase. One Call was acting as a 
broker for this sale. The policy  automatically renewed through  One Call over the next four 
years.
In 2018 Mr C noticed some damage to the roof of his property which he believed  was due to 
subsidence. When he tried to make a claim to the insurer he was informed that his policy  
didnt include cover for subsidence. Mr C says he wasnt told this by One Call when he took 
out his policy,  so he thinks the policy was mis-sold  to him.
One Call said it was clear  in the policy  documents  that there wasnt cover for subsidence   
and Mr C was given  the opportunity to review possible policy  wordings during his online 
application. It has also said he was provided  renewal documents each year,  including a 
policy schedule which details the endorsements that are applicable to his policy.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said this exclusion should have been brought to 
Mr Cs attention and he didnt find that the documents were clear  enough.  He said One Call 
should pay for a loss assessor to inspect  Mr Cs property, and if the damage was caused  
by subsidence,  it should pay the claim.  However,  he also thought  the cost of a policy that 
included subsidence  cover would have likely been higher than the policy he was sold, and it 
would have likely included a subsidence  excess Mr C would have  had to pay in the event of 
a successful subsidence claim. So, he thought if subsidence was found to be the cause of 
the damage, One Call only needed  to cover the repairs  less the further costs  Mr C would 
have paid had he been sold the appropriate  cover.
Mr C accepted the investigators view, but One Call didnt. It said it didnt think  it could have 
made the exclusion any clearer on the policy. It said it was Mr Cs responsibility to ensure 
the cover  met his needs.  And as the policy had renew on four subsequent years, it felt
Mr C had ample opportunity to read the policy terms.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 May 2020.  I explained that I was thinking  of coming to 
a slightly different outcome to that of our investigator.  In my provisional  decision I said:
policy sale
The regulators rules,  which can be found  in its handbook, required One Call to provide 
Mr C with information in a fair, clear, and non-misleading  way so that he could make  an 
informed decision about buying and renewing  the policy. The rules  also explain that the 
information must be appropriate to the type of customer that typically  buys  the policy  in 
question; and take into account the complexity  of the policy, and matters such as 
exclusions and limitations. Ive kept these  rules in mind.
Ref: DRN24589692Mr Cs policy  excludes any claims relating to subsidence, heave and landslip. This service 
considers such restrictions to be significant.  Im therefore of the view that this exclusion 
needed to be brought  clearly to Mr Cs attention so that he could make an informed 
decision when first taking  out the policy and at renewal.
One Call said that, when taking out the policy online, it provided details of the 
endorsements. Its provided an example page from its website to demonstrate this. On this 
page I can see where the endorsements are listed  but only the title of the endorsement is 
given. And it appears  there were seven  endorsements  listed on Mr Cs policy. I think it 
would have been quite easy for Mr C to have missed this important information. Im not 
persuaded that including one line in a list of seven other clauses sufficiently makes it clear  
cover for such damage was excluded.
Ive also seen the policy schedules that were provided to Mr C following his initial 
application in 2014 and after each renewal. These documents are six pages  long and the 
list of endorsements  to the cover are detailed on page five. As with the online information, 
only the title of the endorsement is provided  and is shown  as: 010 SUBSIDENCE,  
LANDSLIP, HEAVE  EXCLUSION.
Ive thought about this carefully.  I dont  consider  that placing important and significant 
exclusions or conditions  so far down a document is reasonable. There doesnt  appear to be 
any signposting at the beginning of the document to draw  attention  to this important 
information. And Im not satisfied this one line is a clear enough explanation of the significant 
change to the cover. Im aware there  is further mention of the endorsement on the final 
page, but this still doesnt  make it clear that there isnt any subsidence  cover. One Call said 
Mr C would have had access to an online document vault  where  the policy wordings are held
 so he could  have checked  what cover  he had. But this is relying on the consumer to look in 
different places in order to find out what this endorsement means and how it applied  to their 
policy  I dont agree that it is fair to place this responsibility on Mr C. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded he was given  information relating to the subsidence endorsement in a fair, clear, 
and non-misleading  way.
Mr C told us his property  had suffered from subsidence  previously. And he wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  if he had known  it didnt include this cover. As Mr Cs property had a 
history of subsidence, I consider its more likely than not Mr C would have wanted this to be 
included. So, in conclusion,  Im persuaded that the policy has been mis-sold to him and he
would have otherwise taken out a policy which included subsidence cover.
the cause of damage and next steps
Mr C said he first noticed damp in a bedroom  and a gap along the roof that joins to the main  
wall of his property. He thinks  this is subsidence related as it is in the same  area that the 
property suffered damage before. But this type of damage could be caused by other  events, 
not necessarily subsidence.  Mr C has provided a copy  of an invoice  for his roofing repairs, 
which included stripping off tiles and putting in a lead soaker.  It also refers to putting  in 
flashing to prevent weather entering the property. If it was subsidence damage,  I consider it 
unlikely that roofing repairs  would be enough  to reinstate the stability of the building.
The invoice is also silent on the cause of the damage, and given the nature of the repairs,  on 
balance, I consider it more likely that the damage  could  be maintenance related than due to 
damage caused by subsidence.
Ref: DRN24589693When making a claim, the onus is on the policyholder to show, on balance, the damage has 
been caused by an insured event. At this stage, Im not persuaded Mr C has shown there 
is, or was, subsidence damage and his repairs related  to that. Therefore, based on the 
information available so far, I cant reasonably  decide One Call needs to incur costs
investigating a potential subsidence  claim.
This means  Im not intending to decide One Call needs to do something more at this stage. 
However, if Mr C provides One Call with a report from an independent expert  which 
supports his belief  the property is suffering from subsidence, One Call needs to consider this 
information and if appropriate, investigate further as if Mr C held the necessary cover.
If those investigations  lead One Call to the conclusion that Mr Cs property is suffering from 
subsidence, it follows that it should  reimburse Mr C his report costs as part of any claim 
settlement. It should also consider his invoice  for the repairs  already completed and any 
further remedial  works  that are required to rectify the underlying cause.
If a claim is accepted, I also agree with our investigator that One Call should cover  what 
his costs would have been had he held the necessary cover during the period of cover the 
damage was discovered. To determine  those  premium  costs  and the subsidence claim 
excess, One Call should take the average  of three quotations that would have been 
available to Mr C at his last renewal prior to the damage being discovered.
If Mr C does decide to submit a report to One Call for its consideration, and subsidence  isnt 
considered by One Call to be the cause of the damage, it wont be responsible for Mr Cs 
report costs. However, if Mr C is unhappy with any decisions made by One Call after he
submits a report, he can make a further complaint.
cover moving forward
Ive also considered the issue of Mr Cs ongoing insurance  cover.  Once the 
investigations mentioned  above are completed, if the property doesnt  have subsidence 
related damage but Mr C would like to change his insurance policy to one that includes 
subsidence cover, One Call should cover  any financial loss if Mr C wishes to cancel his 
existing policy early.
If subsidence is found at the property, and Mr C wants to change  his cover  once the 
remedial repairs have  been completed, or if he can do beforehand, One Call needs to 
again cover  any financial  loss (be that a cancellation fee for his current policy  or due to an
increased premium whilst subsidence repairs are ongoing).
One Call responded saying  it disagreed with the provisional decision. It said the online 
journey outlines  the codes for the endorsement  but that a PDF document  is also provided  
which details all the endorsements for the consumer to review  prior to the purchase of the 
insurance. As this document is available before the contract comes into force, One Call says 
Mr C would have had time to review  this document to make  an informed decision.  
Mr C also replied. He said he accepted  the decision but commented that the roof repairs  
were not intended  to reinstate the stability of the building but were completed on an 
emergency basis to stop water  ingress into his property. He also asked  if One Call can 
refuse the claim if he obtains a report to show that there is subsidence.
Ref: DRN24589694my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what One Call has said but Im afraid this doesnt  alter my outcome. As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  this is a significant  exclusion and therefore  it needed  to 
be made clear to Mr C at the time of purchase. But I dont agree that it was. Mr C had seven 
endorsements on his policy  and so I think it would have been easy to miss this important 
information in such a list when he took out this cover  online. I dont consider providing  this 
one line of information in a list with other  endorsements to be sufficiently  drawing this to Mr 
Cs attention.
Ive also considered the endorsement summary that One Call has provided.  This document 
lists all the possible endorsements  that could be applied to a policy and is 26 pages in 
length. So even  if Mr C did see the title of the endorsement during the online purchase,  
which as I previously explained I dont think was very clear,  he would have had to click on 
the link to the summary and scroll through to the relevant endorsement  to find out more. 
In the summary  document,  the description  of this endorsement is as follows:  PERIL  9 IN 
SECTIONS ONE AND TWO IS DELETED AND OF NO EFFECT. This is the same 
information as provided on the back page of the policy schedule which  I mentioned in my 
provisional decision. Im not persuaded this makes  it clear that there  is no subsidence cover 
available. To check exactly what this meant, Mr C would then have  had to check the policy 
wording, which  was elsewhere. And it is not fair to make  it Mr Cs responsibility to do so. Im 
still of the opinion that this policy was mis-sold as Im not satisfied  One Call provided  
information in a clear  enough way to enable Mr C to make an informed decision. 
I would like to thank  Mr C for providing  additional comments  regarding the damage to his 
property. I appreciate that the repairs he has completed to his home may not be all that is 
required to resolve  any underlying issue  of subsidence. But based  on the information that 
has been made available, it is not enough  for me to conclude  for definite that subsidence is 
the cause. So, it would  be unfair  to instruct One Call to pay the claim without such evidence. 
 
However, as I mentioned  in my provisional decision,  if Mr C does provide a report  from an 
independent expert  which supports his belief that there is subsidence  damage, One Call 
needs to investigate and pay the claim if these investigations lead it to consider there would 
have been a valid claim if he had held the necessary cover. But if Mr C is unhappy with the 
decision reached by One Call following the submission of his expert report,  he can still make  
a further complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  
One Call Insurance  Services Limited  should consider a subsidence claim as if Mr C held the 
necessary cover  but only after hes provided  an independent report  which supports theres  
subsidence damage at his property.  It should also cover any financial loss Mr C incurs  
should he decide to switch to a suitable policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Ref: DRN24589695Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2458969