K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund disputed  cash  
withdrawals made from his current account  that he didnt authorise.  
background 
Mr R applied for a new Nationwide current account  online  in early March 2018.  When 
applying for the account, Mr R was told that he would receive his new debit card and details 
of his PIN within seven  to ten days. Mr R says he also requested a switch. 
On 20 March 2018, Mr R transferred  £3,000  into his Nationwide account. Between 21 and 
26 March 2018  eleven ATM  cash withdrawals were debited from this account totalling 
£3,000  the same amount Mr R had deposited.  
Mr R says he didnt receive the debit  card nor details of the PIN. He adds that he was 
abroad when these withdrawals took place. Because of this he didnt authorise any of the 
transactions. 
Mr R says he checked his balance online when returning to the UK as he still hadnt received 
his debit card or PIN details. Upon  doing this he realised the funds had been  withdrawn  
fraudulently and so contacted Nationwide. Mr R also reported the matter to the Police.  
Nationwide investigated  the matter and declined Mr Rs claim because: 
the account was brand new and Mr R had credited  the account the day before the 
fraud commencing;
only one balance enquiry was carried out before all the funds  were  withdrawn raising  
the suspicion that the individual  in possession of the card knew that only one credit 
was being received  into the account and;
it would  expect a fraudster to have carried out several balance  enquires to see if 
further funds were credited into the account  to maximise their financial gain 
Nationwide also looked into a customer service issue Mr R had raised. Nationwide upheld  
that part of the complaint and paid Mr R compensation for the trouble and upset it had 
caused. 
Our investigator thought it was most likely that someone known to Mr R made  the 
transactions but did so without his authority. They also concluded that Mr R hadnt been 
grossly negligent.  So because of that they upheld the complaint and said Nationwide  should 
refund the disputed  transactions.  
Nationwide disagreed with this, and in addition to the points  it made previously, it said:   
the investigator hadnt considered  the possibility that someone else carried  out the 
transactions with Mr Rs authority;
that Mr R had previously made  a claim with another bank for fraudulent activity on a 
bank account  he held with it. So he ought to have  taken a higher level of care in 
protecting his Nationwide account;
it considers Mr R depositing a substantive amount of money into an account he had 
not yet received the debit card nor PIN on unusual,  especially  as he was about to go 
on a trip abroad  and as there were people going  in and out of his home;
Ref: DRN22245102why hadnt  Mr R reported not receiving  the debit card or PIN any sooner 
As Nationwide  hasnt agreed  with our investigator, the complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr R liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not that he made  or authorised them himself. Im satisfied from 
the banks technical evidence Mr Rs genuine card and PIN were used to make the disputed 
transactions. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  
Nationwide to hold him liable. So that means I also need to think about  whether the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not that Mr R consented to the withdrawals being made.  
Ive thought very carefully about this and having  done that I think  this is a finely  balanced 
matter. Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or unclear I need to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what  I think  is most likely to have happened.  
Mr R has been consistent in saying he didnt receive either the debit card or PIN in the post. 
Hes explained he has several  trusted  individuals enter the home on a frequent  basis  - 
ranging from carers to family members. He says that none of these  individuals wouldve 
intercepted his post, taken the card and PIN details, and then carried  out these transactions  
fraudulently. 
Mr R says its most likely  the postman intercepted his post given theres  been  incidents of 
post going missing  in his area before. But Mr R hasnt been able to provide  any evidence of 
this. I also think its less likely a postman would have  been able to take two separate letters 
sent at different times.  That is what Nationwide say it did, and from what I know,  this is 
general industry practice. 
So that would mean its more likely either Mr R did receive the card and PIN, or someone  he 
knew who had access to his home  did, and they went onto to withdraw  the money from the 
account with or without  his authorisation. 
Mr R has sent me copies of his boarding  passes  which show he left the UK on the 
25 March 2018  and returned  on 4 April 2018.  Hes also given me a copy  of his credit card 
statement which shows transactions taking place on the 25 March 2018  in the place his 
boarding pass  shows  he travelled  to. So Im satisfied he travelled abroad  on the dates he 
said he did. 
That would mean seven transactions amounting to £2,000 out of the £3,000 were already 
withdrawn from Mr Rs account before  he had left the UK over a period of four days. This 
also means that the card and PIN were sent by Nationwide whilst Mr R was still in the UK. 
Ref: DRN22245103So if someone did intercept the card and PIN, they would likely have done so without Mr R 
detecting his post had been stolen from his home   and likely on two separate  occasions 
given the CHIP and card were sent out individually. 
Mr R has said he trusts  everyone that regularly  comes  into his home. But that isnt enough 
for me to rule out the possibility that someone  he knows,  and visits his home,  couldve 
carried out these  actions. 
Nationwide have argued that its unusual  only one balance  enquiry was carried out at an 
ATM before the funds were withdrawn, and that no further attempts to withdraw cash were  
made after the £3,000 had been cleared. It adds  that this isnt consistent with behaviour  you 
would expect to see from an opportunist  fraudster.  
Having thought about this, I think this adds further  weight  to the notion that someone Mr R 
knew reasonably  well carried out these transactions. Thats  because  they wouldve had to 
have known about his plans to travel and possibly that he didnt intend to deposit any more  
funds into this account during this time. 
This scenario gains  further weight when  you consider Mr R contacted the Police to report 
fraudulent activity. After  all if he had made some of these transactions  himself or it was done  
by someone he knew  and had authorised, they risked any ensuing Police investigation 
incriminating them. 
The risk this would pose to Mr R substantively diminishes the likelihood  of him carrying  out 
part of these transactions himself or authorising someone else to do so. In turn that leads me 
to further think its more likely than not that someone  Mr R knew  carried  out these 
transactions and did so without his consent.  
One of the other key issues Ive had to answer in deciding  this case is why Mr R would 
deposit such a substantial amount of money  into a new bank account he hadnt yet received 
the debit card or PIN for, especially when he was about to leave the country.   
Mr R says he did this because he wanted  to ring-fence the money as it was meant for a car 
purchase that he had been saving up for. Ive considered why hed do this especially without 
a debit card or PIN and with some knowledge  about  postal issues  in his area.  But people 
manage their money in different  ways, and often save  in ways to mitigate against their own 
spending behaviours. 
I also note that the online  statement from the account Mr R transferred the funds from 
includes the words  car pay in the payment reference which is consistent with what  Mr R has 
told us. Its also not uncommon  for someone to transfer money into an account they havent 
yet received the card or PIN for. Nor have I seen anything that might have made Mr R think 
his new Nationwide  account wasnt secure. 
Mr Rs explained that when opening the Nationwide account he also opted  to do a switch - 
this means Nationwide wouldve worked  with his other bank to transfer over all his funds  and 
regular payments without  Mr R having to do anything else himself. Mr R says he opened this 
account to avoid fees he was being  charged  on his other current  account and the way it 
operated fitted  better with his beliefs.  
Ref: DRN22245104But Nationwide dont  have  any record of a switch being requested nor of any issue  being  
raised with it by Mr R about  it not being  processed  in this way. Given  the reasons Mr R has 
given for opening  this account, its surprising he didnt raise this with Nationwide. But the 
word switch was used  in the payment reference when Mr R transferred the £3,000.  And in 
any event, none  of this indicates  in any way whether he consented  to someone carrying out 
the transaction in dispute here. 
Nationwide have argued that this type of dispute on a new bank account  fits in with broader  
fraud patterns its seen.  But I must  make  my decision on the individual  circumstances and 
evidence available  relating to this complaint.  
Nationwide has brought to my attention that Mr R had made a claim for fraudulent  activity  on 
another of his bank accounts  and because of that he ought to have taken better  care. Ive 
not placed much weight  on this because:  
Ive not been able to get any information about  this from the other bank nor have 
Nationwide given  me anything substantive;
Mr Rs explained that it was a very different matter  to what Ive considered  here; 
I dont think this shows  Mr R has a history  of making similar claims that would 
diminish his credibility or make me question his integrity 
I dont have the full online  records which would show if Mr R logged onto his mobile  or a 
computer to check his balance whilst these transactions were taking place despite having  
asked Nationwide  for them. But the records Nationwide  has given me show  a login some 
time before the transactions were carried out, and then one at the point Mr R says he 
realised what had happened and contacted Nationwide.  
To my mind,  this adds further  weight  that another party carried out these transactions  
without Mr R s consent - given he reported  the matter as soon as he says he knew about it. 
So, after weighing everything up, and for the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided  its 
most likely Mr R didnt  authorise the transactions he disputes. And because of that 
Nationwide cant hold Mr R liable and will have to refund  the disputed  transactions. 
Nationwide could hold Mr R liable if he had acted with gross  negligence. But given what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  here - and given theres  nothing  to show any degree of 
carelessness on Mr Rs part - I dont need to consider this any further.  
Finally, its not entirely clear if the customer service  element Mr R had complained to 
Nationwide about  has been resolved. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Nationwides 
compensation is fair for the trouble and upset he wouldve  suffered.  
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. I now direct Nationwide Building Society to 
refund Mr R £3,000  of disputed transactions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Ref: DRN22245105Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2224510