K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement  with 
Close Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He wants to reject the car.
Background
Mr B entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers  in August 2018 to 
acquire a used  car. He says he collected it on 17 August and the same day the engine  
management light (EML) came on. He says he contacted the dealership about the issue  and 
then emailed it with the various problems he had experienced. He says it was agreed he 
would take the car to a local garage and the cost of repairs would be covered. 
Mr B says the main  issue was the car mis-firing and parts  were  replaced to try to address 
this. Following the repair Mr B collected  the car but another warning light came on and the 
car broke down. Further diagnostics  were carried out and Mr B says he was told the car 
would be ready  for him when he returned form holiday. On 13 September, Mr B emailed  the 
dealership saying he wished to reject  the car as he was told it would be fixed  for his return  
from holiday and this hadnt happened. He says the dealership then said the local garage 
had mis-diagnosed  the fault. Mr B says he explained  the correct  checks  had taken place and 
then he didnt hear anything back. Mr B then contacted  Close Brothers.
Mr B sent the diagnostics  report to Close Brothers and it said it wanted to inspect the car. He 
says he had to chase Close Brothers for information  and he was then told that because of 
the time taken he couldnt reject the car but that Close Brothers would  pay for the injector to 
be fixed. Repairs took place but following this Mr B says there were still issues with the car. 
On 21 January 2019, Mr B says he was told to collect the car but says he hasnt used it as 
he doesnt feel safe. He says the EML is still on and more repairs  are needed.
Close Brothers says that Mr B raised his complaint  in September 2018 and at that time the 
issue had been  diagnosed by his garage as a faulty  coil pack and the dealership  had paid 
for repairs. It says Mr B said issues remained with the car which was identified  as a faulty 
injector.
Close Brothers says that when it became  involved it discussed the case with the other 
parties involved and concerns  were raised about the diagnosis from Mr Bs local garage. It 
says it was suggested the car be brought to the dealer due to the concerns about the 
diagnosis or the injector could be repaired as full and final settlement. It was agreed the car 
would be repaired at the local garage. It says it was told the repairs were successful. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. They said that issues  arose with Mr Bs car almost 
immediately and while repairs had been attempted issues were ongoing. They noted the 
comments by the dealership about  faults being  mis-diagnosed but based on the evidence 
they were satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. They 
recommended that Mr B be allowed to reject the car and have his payments  refunded  as 
well as being paid £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had been 
caused.
Close Brothers didnt  accept our adjudicators view. It said that its independent  inspection  
report didnt diagnose  the faults  because it didnt have diagnostic equipment but it 
paraphrased the information from the garage. It said before its involvement the coil packs 
were replaced but that it was best practice to replace both coil packs and injectors  at the 
Ref: DRN23197212same time and so its was the garages fault that the first repair failed. It said that one repair  
would have been needed had this been  carried out properly  and that following the repair  to 
the injectors Mr B had reported an issue with the vanos unit. It said it hadnt seen any 
evidence to show this fault was present or developing at the point of supply or linked to a 
point of supply  issue. It raised concerns that the failed repair  attempts were  by Mr Bs 
garage. It said without  further evidence beyond Mr Bs testimony it didnt accept the rejection 
of the car. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B acquired a used  car through a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers. Under  
the regulations,  specifically  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Close  Brothers can 
be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. Satisfactory 
quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a 
reasonable person would expect taking  into account  all the circumstances. In this case  the 
car was over nine years old and had been  driven  almost 68,000  miles.
Mr B says he experienced an issue with the EML coming on the same day as he collected 
the car. It was agreed this would be looked  at by his local garage and an issue  with the coil 
pack was identified. Given this issue was noticed  so soon  after acquisition  and that a fault 
was confirmed, if could  have been  reasonable for Mr B to have been allowed to reject  the 
car at this time, under  the 30 day short term right to reject. However  Mr B agreed to the 
repairs and had these  resolved the issue this could have been a reasonable remedy.  
However after the initial repair attempt Mr B experienced further issues. Following the 
replacement of the coil pack it was found that the injector was faulty. 
Mr B emailed the dealership on 13 September saying he wanted to reject the car. Although  
the conditional sale agreement was entered into on 9 August it seems the car was delivered  
until 17 August and also part of the first 30 days it was in for repairs.  Therefore Mr B said he 
wanted to reject the car within the first 30 days and following a repair attempt. It would have  
been reasonable to have discussed this at this time.
However further repairs were discussed  and Mr B contacted Close  Brothers about the issue 
he had experienced. Close Brothers  had an inspection report carried out which confirmed 
the issue with the injector would have been present at the point of supply.  
While I note the comments  made about a possible mis-diagnosis by Mr Bs local garage  and 
that the injectors should possibly have  been  replaced at the same time as the coil pack,  the 
dealership authorised the initial repair attempt and this wasnt successful. The injector was 
then replaced but Mr B says the car still has issues. 
I understand Close Brothers comments that it doesnt have further  evidence  to show  the 
current issue with Mr Bs car is due to a fault present at the point of supply. However, the 
contact notes provided by Close Brothers  confirm that following the replacement  of the 
injector it was told that the car was still mis-firing and a new issue was found.  Given  the 
continued mis-firing I find it reasonable to accept that the repair  wasnt  of satisfactory quality. 
The notes about  this issue are from December 2018, less than six months from acquisition 
and following a period in which Mr B had minimal use of the car (the inspection report  carried 
Ref: DRN23197213out in November 2018 recorded a mileage of 68370,  suggesting Mr B had driven less than 
400 miles). Given find it more likely than not that the current issue was present or developing 
at the point of supply.  
Overall, given when  the issues  first arose,  I find it reasonable to accept that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Mr B has allowed a repair  attempt that wasnt  
successful therefore  I find It reasonable that he is allowed to reject  the car. The conditional 
sale agreement should be cancelled with nothing further owing. Mr B has confirmed he didnt 
pay a deposit.
Mr B hasnt been able to use the car as intended due to when the issue  first arose and the 
time the car was in for repair. Given the limited  usage, the timing of the issues and Mr Bs 
request to reject the car I find it reasonable that he is refunded the rental  payments  he has 
made. I also find it reasonable  given the distress  and inconvenience this issue  has caused  
that Mr B is paid £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Close  Brothers Limited should:
1.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
2.collect the car at no further cost to Mr B;
3.pay Mr B £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused  he has been caused;
4.refund  all the monthly payments  made  to date by Mr B; and
5.remove any adverse information  from Mr B's credit file.
Item 4 is subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If Close Brothers Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2319721