K821x#15complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that her claim against  Creation Financial Services Limited for a faulty 
solar power battery system under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) has 
been declined.
background
In October  2016, Mrs W and her husband,  Mr W, contracted  with a supplier, E, for the 
installation of a solar power battery system. Mr and Mrs W say they were told by Es 
salesman that the battery would be fitted  by their own team  of installers  and that the battery  
would enable them  to store enough  free energy from their solar panels to meet their homes 
needs.
Mrs W paid £1,248 of the £4,995 cost of the battery  and installation on her credit card with 
Creation. Mr and Mrs W have said that the battery  never worked properly. It tripped within  10 
days of being  installed. E came out and re-set the system, but this tripped again shortly  
afterwards. E told Mr and Mrs W that there  was no fault and that theyd just need  to re-set 
the system from time to time.
Mr and Mrs W attempted to reject the battery  system,  although E refused  to accept that 
anything was wrong. So, they brought  a claim to Creation under Section 75 of the Act. They  
sought to make it equally responsible with E for the battery failure  and requested that it be 
removed, the electrics reinstated and that they be refunded the full cost. Creation rejected  
their claim and the subsequent complaint that they brought to it. Creation  said that there  was 
insufficient evidence  to show the battery wasnt working. So, Mrs W brought  a complaint to 
this service.
Mr and Mrs W recently obtained a report from a solar engineer  who said that when he 
attended the battery wasnt  working.  He didnt  want to take it apart as this might void any 
warranty. But as far as he was concerned, the installation  looked fine, but the battery was 
dead. He also found that their solar panel inverter was failing and quoted  Mr and Mrs W for 
its replacement.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ws complaint be upheld. She found that the battery 
was likely never to have worked properly. And so was more likely than not faulty  from the 
time it was installed. She recommended that Creation remove  the battery, reinstate the 
electrics and refund the cost of installation  plus interest. She also awarded £100 for the 
trouble and upset  Mrs W had been caused.  Creation didnt  agree  and has requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
Amongst other things, Creation said that:
theres insufficient evidence that the battery  wasnt working since it was supplied;
the proposed  resolution isnt in line with the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 as a repair  
needs to take place  before a replacement is provided;
the investigator referred  to the system being self-funding which  isnt relevant here;
the experts report is insufficient and was provided three  years  after installation;  and
the fault identified was a tripped switch and not a faulty battery.
Ref: DRN26227552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be disappointed  to hear that I agree with our investigator that this complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Fundamentally, Creations  concern appears to be that the battery has not been shown to be 
faulty. And if it is, then a repair  would be a more appropriate remedy  than decommissioning  
the system.
The timeline of events here is that the battery  system was fitted in October 2016. Within 10 
days the battery was no longer working.  This was reported to E who sent out an engineer a 
few days later. The engineer stayed for about five minutes and re-set a trip switch. The 
problem re-occurred a few days later.
Creation thinks that this proves the battery was working and that the problem could well be 
with something else in the Customers  electrical  system. But I disagree. Its my finding that 
the battery  system was more likely than not faulty from the moment it was installed.  Mrs Ws 
contract with E was for a battery system to be fitted.  And she could reasonably  have 
expected that to work with her existing electrical installation  and the solar  panels that she 
already had. Thats what E had contracted with her to install. And it will have  had the 
opportunity to inspect  her current  system  before it did so.
Mrs Ws evidence  is that the system  has never worked. It also hasnt lived up to the 
salesmans representations that this would allow them to store enough of the electricity 
generated by the solar panels  for all their needs.
Ive considered the relevant provisions  of the Consumer Rights  Act 2015.  And I dont agree 
with Creation that Mrs W is under any obligation to prove the reason why the battery system 
is faulty. Ive found  that it didnt work from almost immediately after its installation. And there 
is an experts report that says the system was installed correctly  but describes the battery as 
dead. I appreciate  that this report was obtained  a few years  after the installation. But even 
without the report,  its clear that the battery has never worked properly. And Creation has 
declined the opportunity it was given to get its own report.
E was given  an opportunity back in November 2016  and then over the following  months to 
come in and fix the problem. Its engineer  just re-set a tripped switch. And said that if that 
was to happen again it would be Mrs Ws responsibility to re-set the switch.  But nothing was 
done to identify why the switch was tripping in the first place. So there has already been an 
opportunity here to fix the problem and that hasnt been taken up.
Its also noteworthy that E went into insolvent liquidation a few months  after the battery  was 
fitted. And there is evidence from the salesman that E instructed him to make 
representations about the package on offer that have turned out not to be true. So, I do think  
it was fair and reasonable for Mrs W to reject the system  and request a refund.
Creation has said that Mrs Ws rejection of the system  took place after the six-month  period 
provided by the Consumer Rights  Act 2015. But thats not the case. Mrs Ws representative 
was appointed in November 2016 and was in correspondence with both E and Creation over 
the months following that.
Ref: DRN26227553So, Im satisfied that Mrs W did identify the problem and that she gave E an opportunity for it 
to be fixed before she then rejected the system  within  the six months set out in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2016. Both E and Creation could  have  taken the opportunity to send in 
their own expert to examine the system  and identify  any fault that was causing it to trip. But 
they didnt.
Im sorry  that our investigator appears  to have confused one of the issues  in her written  
opinion. This isnt a complaint about  a misrepresentation that a solar panel  system would be 
self-funding. But Mrs Ws representative has alleged there were some misrepresentations 
about the sale of the battery  system. These included that it would be fitted  by Es own 
professional installers,  rather than the sub-contractor that turned up to do it. And, that 
together with the solar panels, it would provide enough free energy  to run their house.
I have considered this aspect of Mrs Ws complaint. But given my finding that she was 
entitled to reject the system, I dont  propose to go into much  detail about it here. Suffice  to 
say, there  is evidence that the use of Es own fitters was important to Mr and Mrs W. And 
there does  appear  on the face of it to have been  a misrepresentation. However, I dont 
consider that this on its own meant  it would have  been fair and reasonable for the entire 
contract to have been unwound.
The self-funding which our investigator intended to refer to was that the system would 
provide sufficient energy to run the house.  That clearly hasnt happened as the battery 
wasnt working. But I cant say from the evidence available that this was a misrepresentation 
- given that if it had worked, it may well have  stored  enough electricity to provide  for most of 
their needs,  depending on how much electricity  they used. But again, this is academic in 
terms of my previous findings.
Under Section  75 of the Act, Creation is equally responsible with E for the customers  loss. 
And the appropriate  remedy here is that they be put back into the position they would have 
been but for Es failings.  Here, Ive found that the battery system  installed was, more likely 
than not, faulty  from installation.  An opportunity was given for it to be repaired, although the 
fault continued to be apparent. An expert has said that the battery  is dead and theres no 
evidence to the contrary that something else in Mrs Ws home has caused  the problem - as 
Creation alleges  may be the case.
In determining what is fair and reasonable compensation,  I have considered whether it would 
be appropriate to require that Creation attempt a further repair.  But both E and Creation  
were given ample opportunity to repair this in early 2017. And the system hasnt worked 
since it was installed.  Mr and Mrs W understandably no longer want  it. And havent since  it 
failed to work immediately  after installation. So, I think that the fair and reasonable outcome 
here is that which our investigator recommended.
I also think that Mrs W has clearly experienced some trouble and upset as a result of the 
way in which Creation dealt  with her claim - in particular, Creations requirement that she 
prove there was a problem with the battery, when it had clearly been shown not to be 
working. So, I think £100 compensation for the way this made  her feel is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint against Creation Financial Services Limited. I 
require that it:
Ref: DRN26227554refund  Mrs W the full purchase  cost of the battery system;
pay 8% simple interest* a year on that sum from the date it was paid to the date of 
repayment;
make  arrangements for the battery  system to be decommissioned and removed and 
for an electrician to certify that any electrical work done  is safe;  and
pay Mrs W £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*HM Revenue and Customs require that Creation deduct tax from the interest  payable  to Mrs 
W. Should Mrs W request  it, Creation should  provide confirmation of how much tax it has 
taken off so that Mrs W may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2622755