K820x#14complaint
Ms W has complained about the amount by which BUPA Insurance Limited  increased the 
premium for her private medical  insurance  policy.
background
In 2017, Ms Ws policy renewed for a premium  of £3,566. In 2018, BUPA invited her to 
renew the policy for a premium of £4,524,  an increase  of nearly 27%.
Ms W complained about the increase. BUPA gave a broad breakdown of the various  factors 
behind it. These were a general increase to reflect overall claims costs and Ms Ws age 
(which together  accounted for an increase  of nearly  13%); location (the premium had 
increased by 17% due to the fact that Ms W had moved during the course of the policy year); 
a change in insurance premium  tax (which increased the premium  by nearly 2%); and Ms 
Ws personal claims (which had the effect  of reducing the premium by 6% through the 
operation of the policys Low Claims  Bonus).
Ms W was dissatisfied with BUPAs explanation. She considered  the increase to be 
extortionate. She referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She thought  BUPAs  
explanation was reasonable and was satisfied  it had acted  fairly.
Ms W didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. She questioned the actuarial  basis  for BUPAs  
pricing decisions. She disputed that her change of address should have resulted in such  a 
change in her premium. She wanted  BUPA to reduce  her premium to a reasonable amount.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  this fairly and consistently,  in accordance with 
its internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally  interfere. We are not a 
regulator and we cannot tell a business how much  to charge for its products.
BUPA has provided  Ms W with a breakdown of how it arrived at her premium.  Im satisfied 
that its explanation is reasonable.
Ms W is dissatisfied.  She wants BUPA to provide further information to show why it decided  
on its level of increase to reflect overall claims costs and her age. However,  I dont consider 
that BUPA is required to provide this information  because it is commercially sensitive. 
Similarly, I dont  consider it needs to provide her with information  to show why her change  of 
location was judged to be a greater  risk than her previous address. In the end, it is up to 
BUPA to use its commercial judgement to decide how much weight to place on these  factors  
and I cant reasonably tell it to do it differently.     
Ref: DRN28115562As it is, BUPA has provided evidence from which Im satisfied it has calculated Ms Ws 
premium accurately and fairly. It has treated her the same as anyone else in her position.  I 
sympathise with her over the fact that her premium  has increased so significantly but, in the 
end, it is up to Ms W to decide whether the policy represents good  value for money.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2811556