K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG (trading as ETI International 
Travel Protection) unfairly declined their application  for travel insurance.
background
In August  2018  Mr and Mrs R applied for a travel  insurance policy with Staysure 
(underwritten by ETI). Theyd  had travel insurance with Staysure in the past. But this time 
their application  was declined. Mr R was told Staysure couldnt  insure  him as he was 
participating in a medical trial. 
Mr R explained that he was asked to take part in the trial as hed undergone a successful 
battle with cancer in 2010. He said the trial consisted of using oestrogen patches, the same 
as those used  by women who require hormone replacement therapy (HRT).  And that hed 
had no side effects  and his medical  results had been very good.  He got a letter from the 
consultant running  the trial, and a copy signed by his GP confirming he was fit to travel.  But 
ETI said that it still couldnt insure him. 
Mr R says he had to pay a broker £2,150  for travel insurance cover for the cruise he and Mrs 
R had booked. Based on the price  theyd paid for cover with Staysure in the past, he feels  
theyve been left out over £1,500 out of pocket  as a result of ETIs decision not to insure  him. 
Mr R argues that ETI wouldve insured him if hed stopped the trial. But says he wasnt  
willing to do this as he wouldnt  have been allowed back on to it at a later date. He feels ETI 
has discriminated against him, disregarded the opinion of medical professionals, and is 
acting to deter those  wishing to help others.
Our investigator appreciated ETIs decision to decline cover had caused Mr and Mrs R 
difficulties. But thought it was reasonable for it to make decisions about  who it would cover 
under its policies.
Mr R said he felt our investigator had misunderstood  his complaint. He explained that he 
understood the insurer was entitled to refuse  cover. But said that having  previously  been  
insured with them hed booked and paid for this cruise on the basis of misleading 
information. He feels its current  adverts  are misleading. And says it suggested he could use 
an alternative to the word  trial to obtain cover. 
Mr R also says the policy document he has doesnt  make any reference  to medical trials 
under the exclusions. And that it says there will be no additional charge to persons having a 
variety of medical conditions, including those receiving HRT treatment. 
Our investigator didnt  feel the policy document showed Mr R should  have been able to take 
out the policy. And noted the advert  he had referred  to stated that cover  was subject to 
medical screening.
Mr R asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman. So it is now for me to make a 
decision on this matter.  
Ref: DRN23504642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Rs frustration about the difficulties  they experienced obtaining 
travel insurance for their trip. But ETI is entitled to make commercial decisions about who it 
wishes to offer insurance cover to, and on what  terms.
I should note that we are an informal dispute resolution service that deals with individual 
complaints. Its not my role to scrutinise a businesses commercial policies. However I can 
see Mr R has made  reference to guidance given  by the Association of British  Insurers  (ABI). 
And when  making  my decision I have had regard for this, together  with the relevant industry 
rules and guidelines. 
When Mr and Mrs R made their application  to ETI the ABIs paper on Clinical  research 
trials and insurance  was relevant (although the ABI has since withdrawn it). This guidance 
was clear that participation in medical trials  might  affect someones  ability  to get travel  
insurance cover. 
Mr R has stressed  his good health,  and the fact the trial didnt consist of any medication not 
already being  used  for other purposes. But ETI has shown  us evidence that its standard  
policy is not to offer cover to anyone participating in a medical  trial. 
Mr R argues that the medical trial isnt related to a current illness.  And I can see he 
submitted medical  evidence to try and persuade ETI to make  an exception to its policy  in his 
case. He provided  it with a copy of a letter from a consultant involved in the trial who said he 
did not envisage  Mr R needing further treatment  in the near future  and could see no reason 
why use of oestrogen  patches should  preclude  Mr R from travelling. 
ETI has said that in the past it has made  occasional  exceptions  to its policy and offered 
cover to persons  participating in a medical trial. But it referred  Mr Rs case to its underwriters 
and upheld its decision to decline cover  here.  I can understand  why Mr and Mrs R were so 
disappointed about this. But ETI has explained that its decision  was not linked to Mr Rs 
medical scoring. And Im satisfied the example its given  to show  us when it might consider 
making an exception  to its policy on medical trials  is sufficiently different to Mr Rs situation.
I recognise Mr and Mrs R are dissatisfied with ETIs policy. But Im satisfied that this policy is 
applicable to all of ETIs potential customers. And ETI s evidence  persuades me that it 
hasnt treated Mr R, as an individual, any differently to the way it would another person in his 
situation. So I havent found  that it acted unfairly  when  it declined Mr and Mrs Rs application 
for travel insurance cover. 
Mr R has suggested that having previously been insured with Staysure  he and Mrs R 
booked and paid for their cruise on the basis of misleading information.  He says Staysure 
say to contact them  after booking the holiday. And he feels  its adverts are misleading and 
has referred to consumer protection legislation.
Ref: DRN23504643Its not my role to make a decision on advertising  standards, so Mr and Mrs R may wish to 
consider taking this point  up with the relevant regulator (which  I understand would  be the 
Advertising Standards Authority)  if they want to pursue it further. But I have  considered the 
points theyve made when reaching  my decision on this complaint. And again Im not 
persuaded ETI acted  unfairly.
Its clear Mr and Mrs R expected to get travel insurance through  Staysure (ETI). And I can 
see theyd previously had cover for a trip they took in December 2014. But the fact a 
company has offered  someone insurance cover in the past doesnt  guarantee that it will 
again in the future. Nor does it place it under any obligation to do so.
I cant see that the advert Mr R has shown  us directs a customer  to make contact with 
Staysure only after booking their trip. Or indicates that it wouldnt be possible to discuss  
insurance cover arrangements beforehand. The advert makes no reference to medical trials. 
And whilst it says that pre-existing medical  condition cover is included  in policies, I dont 
think it offers any assurances that cover will be approved. As our investigator pointed  out, 
the advert does say policies are subject to medical screening.
Mr R has provided us with a copy of a Staysure policy wording which I can see doesnt make 
reference to medical  trials. However  this document differs from the policy wording ETI has 
shown us was applicable at the time of his application in August 2018 (policy wording dated 
May 2018).
Its not unusual  for insurers to make changes to their risk appetite and approach over time. 
And it follows that Ive given more weight to the policy wording ETI has provided  to us as it is 
the one that would have  been issued to Mr and Mrs R had they been  offered cover at this 
time. This wording clearly sets out under  the general  exclusions (section  1(e)(ii)) that cover 
doesnt apply  in respect of claims arising  as a result of receiving  medical treatment under a 
medical trial.
I should also clarify that the policy wording is only applicable to people who have been  
granted policy cover. I wouldnt necessarily expect it to contain details of ETIs underwriting 
criteria, or who it does or does not wish to offer insurance cover to. 
I note the wording Mr Rs provided  to us lists Hormone Replacement Therapy  (HRT)  as a 
medical condition  potentially covered without charge. HRT isnt specifically mentioned  in the 
policy wording provided to us by ETI. But even if it was, Mr R wasnt  using the oestrogen 
patches for the purposes of undergoing traditional HRT. So Im afraid this wouldnt persuade 
me that ETI acted unreasonably when declining  cover  either.
Mr R has told us he feels ETI suggested he could  use an alternative to the word trial when 
applying for cover. And that if he did so his application wouldve been successful. Ive 
listened to a recording of the medical screening call Mr R had with Staysure, and I can hear 
the advisor explained Staysure couldnt  cover  anyone participating in a medical trial or 
research. When Mr R asked if theyd cover  him if he cancelled the trial the advisor explained  
that wouldnt make a difference as hed been  participating in it for the past couple of years.  
Ref: DRN23504644The advisor then told Mr R there was a slight chance  Staysure  could cover  him, but that they 
required more details,  and needed to confirm  exactly what  Mr R meant when he used the 
word trial. Mr R explained  what the trial consisted  of in more  detail,  and the advisor checked 
and said they felt they could cover what they understood  him to mean by this  which was 
that he visited a cancer  research centre  to be given  [oestrogen] patches and undertake 
blood tests.
Later in the call both Mr R and his wife referred to his medical  trial again.  The advisor 
explained that because the term trial kept coming up on the call and Staysure didnt cover 
people participating in medical trials  theyd  need  to get it reconfirmed that they could offer Mr 
R cover. At this point the advisor passed  the phone to their manager who listened  to Mr R 
explain the trial again. The manager said that Staysure werent able to offer cover as the 
patches he was using werent a known and existing treatment for they type of cancer  hed 
previously had, and so constituted a new trial / medical research.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs frustration here. This call went  on for over an hour, and it was 
no doubt disappointing when the final outcome  was that ETI declined  to offer them  travel  
insurance cover. I do appreciate Mr Rs desire to maintain complete honesty with the insurer. 
And I think hed made it clear he was participating in a medical trial at the outset, and the call 
could perhaps  have been concluded more quickly. But I do also feel that the advisor was 
genuinely trying  to help Mr and Mrs R. And I can appreciate that as this isnt a traditional 
medical trial in the sense that Mr R is not receiving treatment for a current  illness,  the advisor 
may have  initially felt it possible for cover to be offered.  But ultimately Im satisfied  ETIs 
shown us that its standard policy was followed correctly when cover was declined.
I know Mr and Mrs R feel very strongly about  his matter. And Ive no doubt they will be 
disappointed by my decision. But Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive 
outlined above.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 May 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2350464