K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about WDP Insurance Limiteds  service when he made a claim under  his 
mobile phone insurance  policy. My references to WDP include its agents.
background
Mr J made  a claim on his mobile  phone  policy at the end of October  2018. WDP, the insurer, 
accepted the claim but Mr J says he didnt receive a fully working phone until the end of 
December 2018.
In summary,  the first replacement phone WDP  sent was faulty meaning the phone didnt 
receive a signal most of the time. At the beginning of December WDP  sent another  
replacement phone but Mr J was unable to update the software  on the phone.  Another  
phone was sent which had similar  problems. In mid-December WDP  emailed details to Mr J 
telling him how to download the software but Mr J told WDP the handset  still wasnt  giving 
him the option  to download  the latest software.  Hed also contacted  the phones 
manufacturer who told him that from the serial number the phone  wasnt  manufactured for 
the UK market so it wasnt compatible  with the software available for the UK. At the end of 
December 2018  WDP sent Mr J a fully working phone.
Mr J complained and WDP accepted it had given poor service. It offered £65 compensation. 
Mr J complained to us as he didnt  think  that was enough.
Our investigator recommended WDP pay an additional £100 compensation. 
Neither party agreed. Mr J said he was looking  for £300 given WDPs poor attitude, his 
stress and all the time hed spent contacting WDP. WDP said two of the phones  werent  UK 
units but all were open to EU networks  so Mr J should  have  been  able to use the phones. It 
suggested that if the manufacturer  had stopped supporting the phone with specific  software 
that might  have caused the problem. WDP  said it wasn't responsible  for software  issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  I require WDP to pay Mr J £165 compensation in total.  Ill explain 
why.
If WDP accepts  a claim it needs  to provide Mr J with a working replacement phone  in line 
with the policy terms. 
WDP hasnt denied responsibility  for the first phone's fault that left Mr J with signal problems 
for a month. It may not be responsible  for software issues  with the other  phones. But I dont 
think it can fairly say it provided a fully working  phone if the phone's manufacturer has 
stopped supporting the necessary software for the phone to work  properly. Under  the policy  
terms it can provide another, like for like, phone model without the software problem.
Im also not persuaded that the problem was solely with the software. Mr J had no difficulties 
with the final replacement phone, and I understand that was the same  phone model as the 
Ref: DRN25986632others. So its probable  there was a fault with the previous handsets instead of, or as well as, 
any software issues.
The policy says that if WDP doesnt deliver a replacement phone in certain  timescales it will 
pay Mr J £20. Its fair for that to mean that a working replacement will be delivered and WDP 
failed to do so on three  occasions. It might be that WDPs compensation offer was based on 
that policy term. Whether it was or not, the offer isnt enough for Mr Js situation.
As well as having the inconvenience of not having  a fully working phone for nearly two 
months, Mr J had to keep moving his personal information off one phone  to another and 
spend time trying to configure each one. WDP appears to have  left it to Mr J to research the 
software issues through websites, and eventually with the manufacturer. He also had the 
inconvenience of having to frequently contact  WDP about the problems for each  phone. 
WDP accepts Mr J didnt  get a manager  call back as it said he would. 
WDP gave Mr J poor service. But I dont generally award compensation based on time spent 
by a consumer  and there's no reason to do so in this case. I understand Mr J was very 
inconvenienced, annoyed and frustrated  but there's no basis to award Mr J the £300  
compensation he requests.
Im satisfied that an additional  £100 on top of WDPs offer is a reasonable amount. Its not 
clear if Mr J received the £65 offer payment,  if so WDP must  pay the balance so the 
payment is £165  in total.
Mr J has mentioned that he thinks the policy  was mis-sold. Our investigator  correctly 
explained Mr J would  need to make a separate complaint if he wanted to take that further.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require WDP Insurance Limited to pay Mr J £165  compensation  in total for his distress  and 
inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2598663