K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) charged him for 
a replacement windscreen which he thinks is unfair.  He would like to be charged for the cost 
of a repair.
background
Mr P says he had a car through a lease agreement  with MBFS. He says when he was due to 
return the car it was inspected and the inspector found a very small chip on the windscreen.  
He says the inspector told him MBFS would likely  charge  to replace the windscreen but that 
the damage was repairable.
Mr P says he got a quote online to repair the screen  for £139.70.  He says he is happy to pay 
that but not the £457.91 that MBFS is charging.
Mr P says he contacted  MBFS  via a web chat service. It advised him to allow collection of 
the car so he didnt  incur a cancellation fee. And then to dispute the charge when he got an 
invoice. Also to take photos of the damage which he did.
MBFS said that the windscreen needed to be replaced as there was a chip in the drivers 
zone. It did offer to reduce  the amount charged  by 20% as a gesture of goodwill to £366.32 
.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She found that damage to the windscreen did fall 
outside normal wear  and tear. But that it was reasonable to repair  not to replace the screen. 
She recommended that MBFS only charge for the costs of repair not replacement.
Mr P said he was happy to pay the cost of the repair.
MFBFS didnt  accept this view. It queried  the quote  that Mr P had got to repair the 
windscreen and asked if the company  that gave the quote had seen the screen. It also said it 
was of no benefit for MBFS  to replace the screen  if it didnt  need  to do so as it wouldnt be 
cost effective as it doesnt charge for labour.
Our adjudicator confirmed  that Mr P got his quote  to repair  the screen online. And that MBFS 
had told him on a webchat  that he could repair the damage if there was no crack. And there 
didnt seem to be any evidence of a crack she felt the screen  could be repaired not replaced.  
So felt it was fair Mr P only be charged  for the cost of a repair.
MBFS didnt accept this. It said that chips on windscreens are not acceptable  if they obscure 
the drivers line of vision which the chip on Mr Ps screen did. 
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that when Mr P returned his car towards the end of his lease 
agreement that there  was some damage to the windscreen.
The inspection report on the noted a chip of up to 5mm in the A zone stating that the 
windscreen would need to be replaced.  
Ref: DRN22652092Ive looked at the Vehicle  Return Standards which form part of the contract Mr P signed. And 
also The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association Guidelines (BVRLA)  on fair wear  
and tear which MBFS use to consider if damage should be chargeable.
These make it clear  that chips on windscreens  that obstruct the drivers line of sight  are not 
acceptable. As the chip was noted as being  in Zone A (the drivers line of sight)  I am of the 
view that the damage to the windscreen was not fair wear  and tear and was chargeable.
The main  issue seems  to be whether the windscreen should have been repaired or replaced.  
Mr P says the inspector who carried out the inspection on the car told him the damage was 
minimal and that it could  be repaired.  He says he was advised to call MBFS to discuss this.  
I cant be sure what the inspector told Mr P. But the remedy he noted  on the report was 
replace not repair.  Mr P signed that form and didnt add any note to say he had been 
advised the chip was repairable.
I have seen details  of a web chat Mr P subsequently  had with MBFS. Its clear from that 
transcript that the issue was referred  to MBFS Defleet Department. Its advice was that 
providing there was no crack then Mr P could get the chip repaired rather than having the 
whole windscreen  replaced.
Mr P is then further advised  that he would likely incur a cancellation fee if he cancelled the 
collection due that same day. But if he allowed collection he would be sent an invoice. He 
could then dispute any charges. However  Mr P was also told that if he allowed the car to be 
returned it is likely the screen would be replaced.  
At this point Mr P had a choice of repairing  the car or returning it knowing it was likely MBFS 
would replace the windscreen. He chose  to allow the collection to go ahead.
I accept MBFS  point  that there was no financial reason for it to replace the windscreen if if 
didnt need to do so. However looking at all the information I have I am not persuaded that 
the windscreen needed to be replaced. I dont  feel that MBFS has evidenced there was a 
crack  the photos it has sent us arent  clear  enough to help. And the inspection report  
doesnt mention  a crack. The web chat transcript however does make  it clear that unless  
there is a crack the windscreen could be repaired. So I feel its fair that Mr P covers the cost 
of the repair  not a replacement windscreen.
Mr P got an online quote for repair of £139.70 and he says he is happy  to pay that amount. I 
think MBFS has made a fair point  when it says the quote was given without the benefit  of 
anyone actually seeing the damage.
However I havent been able to ascertain, to my satisfaction, what MBFS would have 
charged for a repair. So on that basis I feel Mr P has made efforts to find out what a repair 
would cost. In the absence  of any other  information  I think  its reasonable that Mr P pays 
£139.70
my final decision
In full and final settlement  of this complaint Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited 
should only charge Mr P £139.70 for the replacement screen.
Ref: DRN22652093Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2265209