K820x#14complaint
Mr C brings this complaint  on behalf  of his business.  To keep things simple, Ill refer only to 
Mr C in my decision.
Mr C complains that broker  Quote It Ltd (QI), an appointed  representative of Genesis  Risk 
Solutions Limited, didnt  pass  on what hed told it to his insurer.  He says this led to his claim 
being rejected  and his insurance being cancelled.
background
In June 2017 Mr C called  QI because he wanted contractors insurance for his business 
equipment. Mr C accepted the quote QI got from an insurer  for a Contractors Combined 
Insurance policy, and cover was arranged soon after.  At about the same time Mr C added 
other equipment to the policy, and then paid a deposit to QI. 
Mr C paid for the rest of the premium by taking out finance with a third party provider, and 
this was arranged  by QI. But, soon after, the finance  provider said it couldnt provide finance  
because Mr C already  owed it money.  The provider  eventually  agreed to provide finance  on 
the basis that Mr Cs previous debt was added to his new finance agreement. 
In September  2017, Mr C didnt make his contractual monthly  repayment  to the finance 
company. At around the same time Mr C made a claim on the policy  for damaged 
equipment. The insurer appointed loss adjusters,  who visited  Mr C in October 2017 and 
carried out an investigation. 
The loss adjuster found Mr C had been a director of a company that went into liquidation in 
2015 with County Court Judgements (CCJs) against it, and included  this information in their 
report. QI says it then discussed this with Mr C. It says it told him he didnt disclose this 
information when  he asked for the quote,  and that he should have done.
Soon after, QI looked into Mr Cs credit history  further. It found  that in 2016, another of his 
companies had gone  into liquidation  with CCJs against it. And it also discovered that 
between January and February 2018,  the finance  provider obtained three CCJs against 
Mr C, as he hadnt kept up with his monthly  repayments. QI says Mr C didnt tell it about 
these CCJs either. 
In February 2018  the insurer avoided Mr Cs policy. In other  words,  treated it as if it had 
never existed. It did this because Mr C hadnt told it about  his previous liquidated companies 
and CCJs. And as a result of avoiding the policy, it refused his claim.
Mr C has told our service  he didnt  have any CCJs when he took the policy out. He also 
says he told QI about  his liquidated companies, but it didnt pass  this information to his 
insurer. He says this failure led the insurer to avoid the policy and reject his claim for 
damaged equipment. Mr C says this placed a severe financial strain on his business 
because not having the equipment repaired meant it was unable to fulfil large contracts  and 
had to hire replacement equipment. And Mr C says the finance provider sought a winding up 
petition against his business because of the outstanding debt, though  this has now been put 
on hold.
Ref: DRN21576582Mr C didnt think this was fair so he contacted our service. The investigator put Mr Cs 
complaint to QI. It said Mr C hadnt told it about  his previous companies and CCJs, and it 
hadnt done anything wrong.  After looking into things, the investigator thought it was most  
likely Mr C didnt  tell QI about  the two liquidated companies or CCJs. In view of this, he 
didnt think QI had done anything wrong.
Mr C disagrees  so his complaint has been  passed  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
I know this isnt the answer  Mr C wants so Id like to make clear  that Ive considered  
everything Mr C and QI have said and all the evidence theyve provided. But my decision will 
only address what I see to be the crux of the complaint, so I wont  refer to every  point  Mr C 
and QI have raised.
Brokers like QI have  to collect information  from customers that allows  them to make  a fair 
presentation of risk to the insurer on the customers behalf. And their customers need  to 
provide the information theyre asked  to provide and this must  be accurate.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he did provide the information  QI had asked  for and 
needed, and this included telling QI about  his previous liquidated companies and CCJs. He 
says it failed to pass  this information on to the insurer and this is what led to his policy  being  
avoided. Mr C says all this was discussed  when the finance company  initially said it couldnt 
provide finance  in July 2017.
For its part, QI says it Mr C didnt tell it about his liquidated companies and CCJs, despite  it 
asking Mr C about these  things. It says that while it knew Mr Cs existing debt with the 
finance provider  would  be added to his new finance  agreement, it didnt know  what  the debt 
was for since data protection meant the finance provider couldnt share any details with QI. 
QI says Mr C discussed this matter directly with the finance provider instead.
From the credit  reports  QI has provided, I can see that when Mr C took out this policy,  he 
had nine CCJs and two previously liquidated  companies, one in 2015 and one in 2016. He 
then had a further four CCJs in 2017 and 2018 when the policy  was in place. As a director  
of the liquidated companies and his current company, I think its most  likely Mr C knew  about 
the CCJs and liquidations. 
In order to make a decision about his complaint, I need to consider whether Mr C disclosed 
his liquidated  companies and CCJs to QI when he took out the policy. Unfortunately,  QI 
doesnt record its calls.  But it has provided  a copy of the fact find it says its agent completed 
with Mr C over the phone at the start of his policy. This shows  Mr C should  have  been  asked 
whether he was involved in any company that went into liquidation and whether  he had any 
CCJs in the last six years. The fact find records Mr C said no to the question about these 
things. And I think this shows its most likely  QIs agent did ask Mr C about CCJs and 
liquidations and that he didnt mention the ones hed been  involved in. I say this because I 
have no reason to believe  the agent didnt complete the fact find by asking the questions, as 
Ref: DRN21576583this is normal procedure  and theyd have had no real reason not to do this; especially as 
they knew a copy  would  kept for future reference. 
QI doesnt seem to have  sent a copy of the completed fact find to Mr C to check, but at the 
start of the policy it did email him copies  of his policy documents  and asked him to check  
they were correct. The policy documents made it clear the policy  was provided on the basis  
that Mr C hadnt been  the subject of CCJs or insolvent liquidations, amongst other things, 
and hadnt been a director of a company that had gone into insolvent liquidation. 
Ive asked Mr C why he didnt contact QI after he received that email,  as it contained 
incorrect statements about him not being involved with previously liquidated companies etc. 
Mr C said he didnt notice this error, as he wouldnt have been looking for it. And he said he 
wouldnt have expected QI to add these  statements to the policy  documents after hed told it 
about his liquidated companies  when finance was initially  refused. 
But based  on the emails Ive seen,  I think QI sent the policy  documents  to Mr C for checking 
before finance  was refused. And I think the fact Mr C didnt point  out the information 
provided was incorrect  adds weight to my view that he didnt actually mention his CCJs or 
involvement in liquidated  companies  to QI when he was asked about this. And theres 
nothing else in the evidence Ive seen   other  than Mr Cs own testimony  which  suggests  
he did provide  information  on these things  to QI. And  as Ive already explained  I dont 
think there was any other way QI could have known about these things. 
In summary  and taking  everything into consideration, I think  its most likely QI werent aware  
of Mr Cs previous liquidated companies and CCJs at the start of Mr Cs policy.  Therefore, I 
dont think QI failed  to pass this information on to the insurer. This means its not appropriate  
for me to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C on behalf  of 
his business to accept or reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2157658