K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) mis-sold him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr G out eight instalment  loans with Lending  Stream between December 2013  and 
November 2014.  
The adjudicator thought  that it was reasonable of Lending Stream  to agree loans one to five. 
The adjudicator thought  that by loan six, Lending  Stream shouldve  seen  that Mr G had 
become persistently reliant on short term loans. 
The adjudicator thought  that loans six to eight  were unsustainable. He recommended that 
Lending Stream put things right for these loans.  The adjudicator  recommended that Lending 
Stream remove loans six to eight  entirely from Mr Gs credit file.
Lending Stream agreed to put things right in line with the adjudicators recommendation.  It 
confirmed that it had sold loans six and seven  to a third party  debt buyer. Lending Stream  
said it would  buy the loans back if necessary. Lending Stream  said that it would apply the 
refund against  the outstanding principal balances due on the loans before paying the 
balance to Mr G.
Mr Gs representative has put Lending  Streams offer to him but hasnt  received  a reply yet 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure     
Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly  and reasonably  have  done more  to establish that any lending 
was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN25681962the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream  was required to 
establish whether  Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Irresponsible  Lending  Guide and its replacement  the Consumer Credit  
Source Book  defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties  and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
loans one to five
Lending Stream recorded Mr Gs monthly income  to be £4,000  before agreeing loans one to 
five. And Mr Gs declared monthly  expenditure varied between  £1,345  and £1,950. 
Im satisfied that Lending Streams checks went far enough  before agreeing  loans one to 
three. Although Lending Stream shouldve asked more questions  before agreeing  loans four 
and five, I cant say that the additional  information  Lending Stream is likely to have  been  
given wouldve changed its decision  to lend.
It follows that I dont require Lending Stream to do anything  about loans one to five.
loans six to eight
Lending Stream has agreed to put things right for these three loans. As Mr G had the benefit  
of the money  lent, I agree that its fair to allow Lending Stream to apply the refund to any 
outstanding principal balance.
I dont think I need  say more about  loans six to eight other  than to detail what steps Lending 
Stream should take if Mr G goes on to accept my final decision.
To put things right  for loans six to eight, Lending Stream should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr G paid on loans six to eight;
Ref: DRN25681963add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loans  six to eight;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loans six to 
eight before paying any remaining balance  (if there is any) to Mr G; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about 
loan six onwards is negative. So all entries about  loans  six to eight  should  be 
removed from Mr Gs credit file.
Lending Stream has sold loans six and seven to third party  debt purchasers. Lending Stream  
has confirmed that it will buy the debts back in order to carry out the above  steps.  But if this 
isnt possible,  Lending Stream should  (in addition to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr G has already paid to the third party,  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
direct  the third parties  to remove any information about loans six to eight from Mr Gs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
Lending Stream intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. In full and final settlement, Gain  
Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) should  take the steps outline above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2568196