K820x#14complaint
Mr D, acting for a limited company O, complains Towergate Underwriting Group  Limited 
mishandled a claim under its commercial combined  insurance policy  and failed to provide O 
with details of its legal expenses insurance policy. 
background
Towergate, as a broker, was responsible for arranging Os insurance policies. It also acted 
as an intermediary between O and its insurers in the event of a claim. Below is a summary of 
the events that took place.
There was a flood  in Os premises which damaged fridges and freezers, causing  a loss of 
stock and income. O called Towergate to ask about making a claim under its commercial  
insurance policy. A short time later, the landlord of the premises changed the locks  and took 
possession of the premises from O, due to non-payment of service  charges. 
Mr D contacted Towergate to explain the situation, mentioning O wanted to challenge the 
repossession, that it was losing income  and access was being prevented to its stock  and 
equipment. Towergate  sent Mr D a copy of the insurance documents  for Os commercial 
combined insurance policy, but it didnt send him a copy  of the legal expenses policy. O 
instructed a solicitor  to challenge the repossession  of the premises but did not have the funds  
to pursue the matter further.  Mr D later found  out that O did have a legal expenses policy 
which may have provided O with some assistance immediately after the repossession  took 
place. He complained on behalf  of O, to Towergate,  saying  its failure had caused a loss to O. 
Mr D also complained about how Towergate had been dealing with Os flooding claim and 
the fact there had been little progress  made  with the insurer.
Towergate looked into Os complaint. It admitted it made an error  and hadnt  provided O with 
details about the legal  expenses policy when asked. It also discovered it hadnt sent details 
of the policy  to O at the last renewal date.  Towergate, having  looked at the wording of Os 
legal expenses policy explained that O wouldnt have been  covered for costs associated  with 
challenging the repossession,  so it didnt think it had lost out from its mistake. 
Towergate said that it had passed  on all of the information O had supplied to the insurer in 
relation to the flooding claim,  but it wasnt considered enough  by the insurer  to move  the 
claim forward. It hadnt identified any delays on its part.
Towergate offered  O £400 in recognition of the poor service it had provided.
Mr D didnt agree that O had been  properly compensated  for Towergates failings. He said 
had O been made aware of the legal expenses policy  then the action it took may have been 
different. He argues the repossession could have  been successfully challenged if funded  by 
the policy and O wouldve  been  able to continue to operate from the premises.  He also 
pointed out the policy provided  cover for crisis communication and O may have been  able to 
take advantage of this immediately and limit reputational damage.  
Ref: DRN23654352Our investigator looked at the complaint, he said that Towergate had admitted it made a 
mistake and he thought  the compensation it had offered was sufficient. The investigator said 
hed be in contact  with the insurer of the legal expenses policy  and it had confirmed no cover  
would have been available to O to challenge the repossession under the policy. The 
investigator recognised  O had lost the opportunity to potentially make  a claim for crisis 
communication but acknowledged that O didnt make a claim of this nature  after it became 
aware of the policy. 
The investigator also explained that Towergate acted as an intermediary, passing 
information between  O and the insurers of its policies. It wasnt  responsible  for the questions  
asked by the insurers or that it took quite some time before the insurers registered a claim. 
He said that Towergate had passed information  on in a timely manner so didnt think  any 
further compensation was due.
Mr D disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
He pointed out Towergate has failed  multiple times in its obligations to O and those failures 
had led O to suffer losses. He reiterated  that had O been made aware of the policy  earlier it 
could have taken  different  action to challenge the repossession and taken advantage of the 
crisis communication section of the policy.  He explained O didnt claim for this later, when 
details of the policy were  known  as, by then, the business was shut,  and the damage had 
already been done to its reputation. 
Mr D also mentioned he thought the cover provided by the legal expenses  policy  was 
unsuitable for Os circumstances, as it didnt own its premises. This complaint is being  
considered under a separate reference at this service, so does not form part of this decision. 
The case  has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, I wont be upholding it, Ill explain why. 
the legal  expenses policy
Towergate has admitted  it failed  to notify O of the legal expenses policy it held, both at 
renewal and when  Mr D first asked. Its clear Mr D doesnt feel O has been adequately  
compensated for this mistake, so what I need to decide is what  fair compensation should  be. 
To help me decide this, Ive considered what might  have  happened if O had been told about 
the policy when  it first asked. Ive looked  at the policy wording and what the insurer has said 
about the cover it provides. Im satisfied that the repossession of the premises wasnt  an 
insured event under the policy and as such,  it wouldnt have covered Os legal costs  to 
challenge that action. This means  even  if O had been made aware of the policy  earlier, it 
wouldnt have helped  change  the situation it found itself in. O would still have had to fund its 
own legal  action against the landlord.
Ref: DRN23654353Its possible however  O may have  been  able to make a claim under the crisis communication 
section of the policy. This provides assistance such as drafting media statements or press 
releases, providing  support or representation  at a press conference  and preparing  a 
communication for customers and/or a telephone or website script. However, Im mindful that 
this, as Mr D has pointed  out, wouldnt have changed what happened,  O would still have 
been unable  to trade. I think its more likely  than not, even if O had been able to take 
advantage of this assistance under the policy, its reputation still would have been impacted 
by the repossession  and, the fact O wasnt able to trade, was the main  cause  of its 
reputational damage. 
The flooding claim
Towergate act as an intermediary between O and the insurers of its policies. Therefore, 
while it will take initial details of a claim,  pass those to an insurer and then any questions  
back to O. It isnt itself a claims handler  this responsibility remains  with the insurer. This 
means it is only responsible for passing  information  between the parties,  not deciding  on 
what information is needed or how a claim should proceed. 
Having looked  at the information that O presented, and the insurers replies I can see that it 
took some  while  before  the insurer was satisfied  there was sufficient information to log a 
claim. I can see that Towergate passed  the information between  the parties  in a timely 
manner, so I dont  think it did anything wrong  here. 
fair compensation
Having considered everything, I think the £400  compensation  offered  by Towergate is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As Ive outlined about, even if O had been made  aware of the existence of the legal 
expenses policy earlier, little couldve been done  to change the situation it found itself in. The 
policy didnt provide cover to challenge the repossession of the premises. Its possible O 
couldve made a claim under the crisis  communication section, but its more likely that not 
the impact of this wouldve been minimal  as the business could no longer trade. 
In deciding whether  what  Towergate  has offered is fair, Ive also taken into account the 
overall customer service it provided including  how the complaint  was dealt with. Overall,  I 
think the amount  of compensation  fairly  reflects the poor service Towergate provided  to O on 
this occasion.
my final decision
I dont uphold Os complaint against  Towergate Underwriting Group Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D on behalf  of 
O, to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2365435