K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the policy by phone  in 1998 at the same time as taking a loan. Mr L 
was self-employed  at the time in a retail-related role and had been for around 10 years. So 
he wouldnt  have received sick pay or redundancy pay. Mrs L was self-employed and had 
been for a year. Aside from her income, Mr and Mrs L have  told us they didnt have anything 
else, like savings, to pay the loan with if Mr L couldnt work. From what  theyve told us, Mr L 
was in good health at the time of the sale and hadnt  had any health issues.
The policy provided  cover  on Mr L for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and life cover, 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ls total monthly loan 
repayment for up to remaining term for a successful disability claim and up to 12 months for 
unemployment. The life cover, subject  to its terms, would clear  the loan on death.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £90.66 was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £48.79 with the PPI costing an additional £4.42 per month making the 
total monthly repayment £53.21. 
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show the loan was repaid in 2000.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Nationwide  should have told 
Mr and Mrs L about the poor value; 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs L and 
the impact they would have had on their chances  of making a claim.
Ref: DRN22324422Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
Ref: DRN22324423these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ls 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs L and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Nationwide hasnt a sales  script  or a 
recording of the sales call, which isnt surprising given the call was around 20 years before 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. For the same  reason it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ls 
recollections of the call were no longer vivid.
Ref: DRN22324424Mr and Mrs L have said they had no interest in PPI  and that they were  told they had to 
have the PPI and it was just included as part of the loan package. But, with what Ive said 
above in mind, Mr and Mrs Ls recollections  arent,  on their own, enough to make me think  
Nationwide didnt give them a choice  about the PPI or added  it without  their agreement.  And 
I havent seen  anything else to make me think this. Also,  bearing  in mind all Ive said above,  
what I have isnt enough to make  me think Nationwide pressured  Mr and Mrs L into the PPI.
Nationwide has provided a sample  telephone application form it says is representative  of 
what wouldve been used  during Mr and Mrs Ls call. According to this, Mr and Mrs L would 
have been given brief details of the insurance,  with Nationwide  then recording whether or not 
the insurance was being taken. The sample form is dated the year before the sale,  so its 
possible it does reflect what was used at the time of Mr and Mrs Ls sale.  But it doesnt  detail 
the terms in which the choice  about  the insurance  was to be presented  during the call. 
Nationwide has also provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Ls printed  loan agreement, on which  
PPI is included. While I dont know exactly what was discussed before the agreement was 
printed, I expect the main loan details on it reflect the choices  made by Mr and Mrs L during 
the call about  how much to borrow, over what period  and so on. On balance,  I think its likely 
that discussion also involved  Mr and Mrs L being given a choice about  the PPI, with the 
printed agreement reflecting the choice  they made. 
I reach  this conclusion bearing  in mind that the agreement - which Mr and Mrs L signed after 
the call to take the loan - refers to the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance and sets out the 
PPI costs separately from the main loan costs. So I think it likely Mr and Mrs L signed the 
agreement aware  they were taking an optional insurance with a separate  cost,  given this is 
how the agreement  presents  the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs L knew  the PPI was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure  although it wouldnt be surprising  if 
they didnt recall this now, given how long has passed since  that time.
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Taking  into account also what  has 
been said by Mr and Mrs L, Im persuaded Nationwide didnt provide advice. This means 
Nationwide didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs L. Instead,  it had to 
give them  sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  them  to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to their attention  and highlighting 
 in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect  their loan payments if Mr L were unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached this conclusion because 
I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs L wouldve taken the policy without any sense  of what it was. 
Also I think  Mr and Mrs L knew the single premium being added  to the loan was £90.66, the 
interest added  to the premium was £15.42, the total cost was £106.08 and the monthly cost 
was £4.42 (as all this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement 
they signed).  
Ref: DRN22324425But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr and Mrs L agreed to take the policy. So I dont think Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs L 
sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable them  to make an informed  choice 
about whether  to take the policy,  including drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ls. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L has suggested.  And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Nationwide ought to have done  either.
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Nationwide didnt do all it shouldve done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs L. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. 
To answer  this, I must decide  whether  or not Mr and Mrs L wouldve still taken the policy,  
had Nationwide  done things properly. Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it and 
believe I should presume  this to be the case given the significant  failings identified  above. 
Ive considered the representations of both sides and the evidence  relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs L had to weigh  up in their own minds  the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr L being unable to work.  
Ref: DRN22324426As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs L chose to take this policy.  So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs L thought they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs L have suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs L were  given about the cost was clear.  But the information about 
other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and exclusions, wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. 
While Im not persuaded Nationwide made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs L would get for a 
successful disability or unemployment claim, I think it unlikely their expectations  about  what  
would be paid (an amount  sufficient to meet their monthly loan payments) were  significantly 
different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
For disability or unemployment, the policy excluded  claims if related to any chronic or 
continuing disease Mr L knew about at the policy start (or, from what Nationwide  says, if 
related to any health issue  Mr L knew  or should  reasonably have known of at the policy  
start); or if related  to health issues for which Mr L had received advice or treatment (or, 
from what Nationwide says, received advice or been  referred  for investigation) in the 12 
months before the start and which recurred in the first 12 months of the policy;  and
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if employment 
wasnt a permanent; 
To be eligible  for disability, Mr L had to be unable to do his own job and unable  to do any 
job he might  reasonably be expected to do bearing in mind his knowledge and training  
and, from what Nationwide has said about the policy terms, unable  to do any work.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr L was eligible  for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to Mr and Mrs L should  
the insured risks have become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr L wouldve been  caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions  and I havent seen 
anything to make me think his being  self-employed or the nature that employment wouldve 
likely made it more  difficult for Mr and Mrs L to make  a successful claim.  So, I think  they still 
had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Ref: DRN22324427Also, from whats been said in this case and what we know  of the PPI terms, the policy  did 
provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policy provided flexibility  in case  
Mr and Mrs L decided to repay the loan early.
If Mr and Mrs L had known  they could only claim for disability if Mr L were  not only unable to 
do his own job but any job he might be reasonably expected to do bearing in mind his 
knowledge and training,  and unable to do any work, this might have played  into their thinking  
about what to do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although, given 
their circumstances and limited other means, on balance I think  they wouldve likely still been  
interested in taking the PPI.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr L were made  redundant, or unable to work through  accident or sickness. 
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs L would have taken the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  
(DISP App 3) make  it clear  that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be 
presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they wouldve been in if they 
had not bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN22324428Thats because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt  have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, of 
the two possibilities, its more likely than not they wouldve still taken the policy  had they 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  they were buying.  So 
Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude  
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that would put them in a better  
position than they wouldve been in if everything had happened as it should  have done.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take, 
and about the remedy a court might  award,  if it were  to find Nationwide had been in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2232442