K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1997 Mr R took out a loan with Barclays. At the same time it sold him PPI. The policy  was 
paid for by a single premium that was added to the loan and attracted  interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed,  so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr R that he didnt have to buy PPI and get his agreement 
before adding it. Mr R says it didnt and that it was added without his knowledge. Barclays  no 
longer holds a copy of the loan application  Mr R signed, or much else from the time of the 
sale for that matter, and I think thats understandable given how long it sale took place. 
That said,  Barclays has provided  a sample  of the application form it says Mr R would have 
been asked to complete and sign when he applied for the loan. It had a box to tick to go 
ahead with PPI and one next to it  and just as prominent  to tick to turn it down. So I think  
the form made it clear  the PPI was optional. 
Overall, I think I can rely on the sample  to show Mr R ought to have  been  aware  of the PPI, 
that it was optional, and that he chose to go ahead with it.
I think Barclays advised Mr R to take out PPI. That meant it should  have  taken steps to 
check if the PPI was right for him. I dont know if it did, but I think  it was right for him in any 
case because:
From  what Mr Rs told us about his circumstances at the time,  I think  he was eligible 
for the PPI. And I dont think he was affected  by any of the main  things the PPI didnt 
cover or limited  cover  for.
Mr Rs employer would have paid him for a time if he was too sick to work. But the 
PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that. And potentially until the end of the 
loan for a single  disability claim.  It also paid unemployment benefits for up to 12 
months per claim. Mr R had no other  means  of meeting his repayments  if he wasnt  
working. So I think the PPI offered Mr R useful protection.
It seems  the PPI didnt give a proportional refund of the premium  and so was 
expensive to cancel   if the loan was paid off early.  But theres nothing to show he 
intended to settle  the loan early when he took it out. So I dont think  the PPI was 
Ref: DRN28076452unsuitable for him on that basis.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr R couldnt  afford the PPI. 
Barclays also had to give Mr R enough information  for him to make  to make an informed 
decision about taking  the PPI. The sample  loan agreement Barclays sent us sets out the 
premium, interest it would accrue,  total cost of the PPI and monthly payment. I think  
Barclays would have  made the PPIs  costs clear to Mr R because I think  it likely they were 
presented to him in a similar  way. 
Its not clear if Barclays told Mr R everything else he needed to know,  or how well this was 
explained. So I think it might not have done enough here. But, for the same reasons I think 
the PPI was right for Mr R, I think even if Barclays had given him better information hed still 
have bought it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Rs lost out because of how Barclays  sold 
him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2807645