K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a credit card. The PPI was added  to the account at the same  time Mrs W took out 
the card.
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank PLC mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint.
Barclays disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 30 September 2019, which  is attached and forms part 
of this decision, setting out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party  
responded with any evidence  or comments for me to consider. So based  on my previous 
findings, and in the absence of any new information,  I see no reason to change my mind 
about this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27542842COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2002 alongside  a 
credit card. The PPI was added to the account at the same time Mrs W took out the card.
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank  PLC mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator  upheld the complaint.  Barclays 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the credit  card application  form Mrs W saw and signed. In this there is a section 
for PPI where there is a tick in the box to agree to the cover. But Ive not seen anything in this form 
which suggests Mrs W had to take out the cover or that she wouldnt be able to take out the credit 
card without it. So I think Mrs W wouldve  known  she couldve left this section blank  if she didnt want 
the PPI. Mrs W then signed at the bottom of this application form  so I think  this reflected what she 
wanted at the time.
Mrs W says she was pressured into taking out the policy, but shes not told us what was said to make 
her feel pressured and Ive not seen any evidence  to support this allegation. So Im not persuaded 
she was pressured into taking it and I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold the complaint on this point.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. Mrs W says 
the PPI wasnt suitable for her as she had a medical condition at the time of sale. Our adjudicator 
upheld the complaint on the basis that the policy  excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions  
and so Barclays shouldnt have advised Mrs W to take out the policy  on that basis. Ive thought  
carefully about this, and weve also asked Mrs W for some more information to understand how her 
condition affected her and whether shed  needed any time of work  as a result.  At the time of writing  
neither Mrs W nor her representative had responded.
Based on the type of condition Mrs W was suffering  from and in the absence  of any specific 
information about how it affected her, I am not persuaded that the policy  wasnt suitable  for Mrs W. I 
say this because, based on the information I have, I think its likely that Mrs Ws condition was 
manageable and I dont think its likely she wouldve  needed to claim on the policy for this condition. 
So I think she wouldve wanted this policy to cover her for more  serious,  unexpected  conditions and I 
dont currently think the recommendation  was unsuitable for her.
Looking at everything else Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mrs W also told us she wasnt 
entitled to any sick pay from her employer at the time. She has said she couldve relied on her 
husband to support her, but help from others cant always  be guaranteed  as their circumstances can 
also change over time. So she seems to have had a need for the cover and I think  the policy  was 
suitable for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  
But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN27542843my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 30 October 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2754284