K820x#14Complaint
Mr H and Ms A complain  their travel insurance  policy which  was mis-sold to them by Rock  
Insurance Services Limited  (RIS) and wasnt fit for purpose.  
Background
Mr H and Ms A purchased a holiday in August 2018, and at the same  time they decided  to 
take out a travel insurance policy as they knew they didnt have an EU medical  card. 
Whilst on holiday, Ms A unfortunately  suffered  an injury and was taken to a private  medical 
centre, so they needed to pay for the treatment.  When theyd returned home, Mr H contacted 
the insurance company for them  to reimburse the cost. However, the claim was declined as 
the insurer said Mr H hadnt  contacted  them within the required timescale and before 
incurring costs of over £500. Mr H and Ms A didnt think this was fair as they felt the various 
documents theyd been  given were  ambiguous and they felt the policy  had been  mis-sold. 
So, they made a complaint to RIS. 
RIS didnt  uphold the complaint as they felt the terms  and conditions  of the policy  were  clear. 
They said Mr H and Ms A hadnt been provided  with any advice when buying the policy.  
They also said that before  the purchase  was complete, Mr H and Ms A needed to confirm  
theyd read and accepted the terms and conditions - which  explained that medical expenses 
above £500 wouldnt be covered unless they were  pre-authorised. They said Mr H and Ms A 
had a 14-day  cooling  off period after taking out the policy so they could have cancelled  it if it 
wasnt suitable for their needs. 
Mr H and Ms A didnt agree. They felt that the exclusions in the policy document,  key facts  
document and summary policy document were misleading and ambiguous. So, they asked 
this service to look in-to their complaint.  
Our investigator didnt  think RIS was responsible for the policy  wording as they werent the 
underwriters. And she said she couldnt  look at this part of the complaint  as it had already 
been considered by an ombudsman under  a separate complaint. However, shed looked at 
whether she thought the policy had been  mis-sold  and she didnt think  the complaint should  
be upheld. She said RIS hadnt given any advice about taking out the policy and had given 
Mr H and Ms A enough information for them  to make an informed choice about  whether the 
policy was suitable  for their needs.    
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the same  reasons  as the investigator. 
Mr H and Ms A complain  the travel insurance  policy had been mis-sold  to them,  but I dont 
agree. 
This wasnt an advised sale. So, RIS needed  to give Mr H and Ms A sufficient information 
about the policy to allow them to make  an informed choice about whether or not to buy it. 
This information needed to be clear, and not misleading.
Ref: DRN28002312Ive looked at the process Mr H and Ms A would have followed to take out the policy and I 
can see they had to tick a box to confirm they wanted to include travel insurance  as part of 
their holiday  booking  travel insurance  wasnt automatically included.  Ive also seen they 
received confirmation  the insurance  had been  included with a pop-up which  said, you have 
added travel insurance. Furthermore,  Mr H and Ms A would have needed to confirm that 
they were agreeing to the terms of business  and booking conditions of the policy, had 
accepted the travel insurance  terms and conditions and read and accepted the Initial  
Disclosure Document  and the Insurance Product Information Document before they could 
complete their purchase.  
Ive also seen that all the documents were  available to be viewed from the main page  by 
hyperlink. And that these were  then sent by email to Mr H along with the policy certificate 
and confirmation  of the 14-day cooling off period.
The Insurance Product Information Document clearly  sets out that medical expenses  about 
£500 are not covered unless authorised by the insurer. This document  also clearly sets out 
that the cost of private treatment isnt covered unless agreed by the insurer, which  is a 
common exclusion under  many travel insurance  policies.
So, I think Mr H and Ms A were given sufficiently  clear information to allow  them to make an 
informed choice about whether the policy was suitable for their needs. In any event, as Mr  
and Ms A have benefitted from a claim under the policy, its difficult to conclude the policy 
was unsuitable  for them.   
Mr H and Ms A also said they feel the policy was mis-leading  and the terms were 
ambiguous. But RIS arent responsible for the how the policy  is worded. Both the terms and 
conditions and policy document  wording  are the responsibility of the underwriters. And as 
our investigator has already explained, this was previously  considered  under a separate 
complaint. 
Ive carefully read all the information Mr H and Ms A have provided.  I understand why they 
feel strongly about what happened  and I realise this wont be the outcome they were hoping  
for, but it doesnt  change my conclusion that I dont think RIS have done anything  wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2800231