K821x#15Complaint
Mrs H complains that The One Stop Money Shop Limited lent money to her while  she was in 
an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). She says the loans were  unaffordable.
Background
Based on the information, One Stop Money  Shop  provided Mrs H with four loans  between  
November 2016  and March 2018.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 04/11/2016 29/06/2017 12 £1,000
2 07/04/2017 25/03/2018 12 £600
3 29/06/2017 25/07/2018 12 £1,000
4 27/03/2018 outstanding 12 £1,000
Mrs H says that when the loans  were provided she was in an IVA. She says she was in a 
cycle of debt and the repayments were unaffordable.
One Stop Money  Shop says that Mrs H's first application was made in October 2016 and in 
response to the question  about an IVA it said 'no'. A credit check was carried  out and it says 
that there  was no IVA listed at Mrs H's declared  address but that subsequent investigation 
has showed this was registered at a previous address of Mrs H's.
One Stop Money  Shop says that on subsequent applications Mrs H declared  that she had 
never entered into an IVA. It says the terms of the IVA say that Mrs H needed consent of the 
supervisor in order to gain further credit  of over £500 and asked if this had happened. It says 
that material information wasn't disclosed  in any of Mrs H's applications and so it didn't  
uphold her complaint.
Our adjudicator didn't think  he had seen  enough  to say that the first loan shouldn't have 
been provided. However he said that loans two to four shouldn't have been lent. He thought 
that proportionate checks before loan two would have  shown  that Mrs H was in an IVA and 
that in these circumstances Mrs H wouldn't be able to sustainably meet her repayments on 
this and subsequent loans. He also thought  that by loan four, Mrs H's overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested she had become  persistently reliant on short  term loans.
One Stop Money  Shop didn't agree with our adjudicator's view. It said that the loans were for 
12 months and so they were different from payday loans. It believed Mrs H had taken 
advantage of her IVA being registered  at a previous address to obtain loans outside of the 
terms and conditions of her IVA. It didn't accept that further checks would have shown the 
IVA as this was at a non disclosed previous address. It accepted that had its searches 
shown the IVA it would have considered the loan repayments unsustainable  and said that 
once it became aware of the IVA it declined Mrs H's applications. But it reiterated it was 
unaware of the IVA at the time the loans were provided. It noted that Mrs H had a 
responsibility to provide  truthful information.
In regard to the redress  it said that Mrs H had asked for the outstanding  debt to be written  
off. It said it would do this if a decision set this out but that it didn't think it should then refund 
any further interest.
My provisional conclusions
Ref: DRN21662812I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
limited information was provided in regard to the income and expenditure checks  that 
were carried  out before  the loans were  provided. I used the information  provided which 
suggested Mrs Hs monthly income was around  £1,000;
considering the repayment amounts due on the first loan - and without further information 
suggesting the loan wasn't affordable - I didnt think there was enough evidence to say 
this loan shouldn't have  been provided;
the focus of the investigation  was the IVA. I accepted  that One Stop Money  Shop should  
be able to rely on the information Mrs H provided  but also found that in certain 
circumstances more  checks should be carried out to ensure a loan is sustainable.  One 
Stop Money Shop carried out a credit check and I couldnt say that had further checks 
taken place the IVA would  have  become known;
before  Mrs H took out the second loan (while the first was still outstanding) a full 
investigation of Mrs H's financial situation  should  have been  carried  out to ensure her 
combined repayments were affordable. However I didnt find that I had enough evidence 
to say that had this happened One Stop Money Shop would have realised that loan two 
wasn't sustainably  affordable;
loan three was taken  out when loan one was repaid and loan two was still outstanding. I 
thought a full review  of Mrs H's financial circumstance should have taken place before 
this loan was provided. However,  without further evidence  I couldnt say if this would 
have shown the loan wasnt sustainably affordable. So, I didnt find that I had enough 
evidence to say this loan shouldnt have  been provided;
by the fourth loan,  Mrs Hs overall pattern of lending showed she was persistently reliant 
on short  term debt and so didnt think that his loan should have been provided.
Both Mrs H and One Stop Money  Shop accepted my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, One Stop Money Shop needed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice this means that it should have 
carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mrs H could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being  lent the repayment amounts and the consumers  income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that One Stop Money  Shop should  fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. 
Ref: DRN21662813There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
The focus of this case was on the IVA. However I think  the checks carried out in regard to 
this were reasonable and I dont find that further  checks would have necessarily shown  One 
Stop Money  Shop that an IVA was in place.  
As I have already  set out, I think that further checks should have taken place before loans 
two and three were  provided but as I have explained  I do not find there is enough evidence 
to say that the first three loans shouldnt have been provided. 
By loan four I think  it reasonable that One Stop Money Shop should have been concerned 
that Mrs H was persistently reliant  on short term loans and I think  that this loan wasnt  
sustainably affordable.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision,  my decision hasnt  changed and I uphold  
this complaint in regard  to loan four.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan four. I understand that a 
payment has already  been made to Mrs H in response to the provisional  decision. However, 
for completeness I have  set out again what the actions required to settle  this complaint are. 
The One Stop Money Shop Limited  should:
remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on loan four and treat any 
repayments made by Mrs H as though they had been repayments of the principal. Any 
overpayments should be refunded  to Mrs H with 8% simple interest* from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled, if there  is a 
balance remaining then One Stop Money  Shop should try to agree a suitable  repayment 
plan with Mrs H; 
remove any information  recorded  about loan four from Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires The One Stop Money Shop Limited  to deduct tax from 
this interest. It should give Mrs H a certificate  showing how much tax has been  deducted,  if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2166281