K821x#15Complaint
Mrs T complains TSB Bank plc are holding her liable for a payment she made  from her 
current account when  she fell victim to a scam.  She wants  TSB to reduce her overdraft to 
what it wouldve been but for that payment.
Background
Mrs T holds  a TSB current  account  with an overdraft, which she uses  regularly. TSB hasnt 
said it disputes that on 27 October 2018  Mrs T fell victim to a scam. She was tricked into 
accessing her online  account and paying £1530.36 to an account under what  she thought 
was TSBs instruction.
What happened?
Mrs T received a phone  call from someone  claiming  to be from TSB. The phone number 
matched the number  on the back of her debit card, and the caller  was able to identify 
genuine recent account activity. Mrs T was asked whether she recognised payment attempts 
made to some well-known  retailers, which she didnt. The caller  reassured her the payments 
had been blocked, but a direct debit  was being  attempted to be set up. She needed to 
transfer her remaining overdraft allowance to another  account, which she did.
Mrs T soon  became concerned about  what  had happened. She rang TSB later that day, who 
informed her it hadnt been in touch. Mrs T raised a fraud claim. 
TSB contacted the account provider  to where the funds were  sent.  It responded on               
1 November 2018 to confirm none  of the funds remained in the account. TSB decided  to 
hold Mrs T liable for the resulting  increased  overdraft balance  because it wasnt  responsible  
for her being scammed.
Mrs T complained to TSB,  but it refused to refund  the payment. It had done  what it could to 
try and retrieve the funds,  but it wasnt liable for the financial loss caused  to her because  of 
the scam.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us. An investigator considered  the complaint and decided  to 
uphold it. They found:
-Mrs T authorised the payment under the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017. It 
didnt matter under those regulations  that Mrs T had been tricked into making the 
payment.
-TSB should normally process  payments  mandated  by its customers.  But it also 
needs to exercise  reasonable  skill and care,  and pay regard to the interests of its 
customers. It also needs to take steps  to keep customer accounts safe. Indeed, the 
law recognises a firm may be liable if it has reason to believe its customers  funds are 
being misappropriated.
-Of relevance is the BSI: PAS 17271: 2017  Protecting customers from financial  harm 
as a result of fraud or financial  abuse   Code of practice (code). The code was in 
effect at the time the payment took place and it represents good industry practice,  
even though TSB werent involved in it being put together.
Ref: DRN28244522-The code  says firms should  take a proactive approach  to minimise the risk, impact 
and incidence of financial harm  to its customers. It should put measures in place 
across all payment channels to detect  suspicious transactions  or activities  indicative 
of fraud  and/or  financial abuse.  It gives a list of examples that might  indicate 
suspicious activity. And, where suspicious activity is detected it says an appropriate 
member of staff should be informed.
-The payment  Mrs T made  was clearly out of character for her, having never made a 
payment of its size before, and certainly  not to a new payee.  TSB ought to have 
considered the payment as unusual  and contacted  Mrs T. And had it done so, it 
wouldve been evident Mrs T was falling victim  to the scam.
-TSB should refund the payment.  It should  then restructure Mrs Ts account as if the 
payment hadnt  been made,  refunding any charges  or interest  incurred as a result of 
the payment.  It should pay her £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it had 
caused her. Its failure had a particular  impact because Mrs T was already under 
financial strain, and the payment  took her to the overdraft limit.
Mrs T accepted the investigators findings.  TSB rejected them.  
TSB says the BSI code ought not to be used as a checklist  to define whether activity  is 
suspicious. By itself the size of the payment wasnt remarkable. And neither was it unusual 
when taking into account the activity  on Mrs Ts account. Specifically:
-Mrs T has made payments  to new payees on her account, albeit for lesser amounts.
-Mrs T had utilised  most of her overdraft before, so this wasnt unusual,  and shed  
received payments into the account  of a similar  size. 
-Mrs T would also have been given a clear  warning when the payee was set up that 
TSB wouldnt ask its customers to make payments out of their accounts.
-TSBs  payment detection systems are robust and in line with the rest of the industry.
As TSB has rejected the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint for broadly  similar reasons to those given by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Under the PSRs  a consumer who authorises a payment (agrees to it)  is liable for it. Its 
also recognised  in law that a payment service  providers principal duty is to obey its 
customers mandate. But, as the investigator rightly  pointed  out, this doesnt mean an 
instruction must be followed where  there is reason  to be suspicious about the payment.
Under the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Principles for Businesses,  TSB must have due 
regard to the interests of its customers and take due care, skill and diligence  when 
conducting business. And the law recognises that a firm may be liable if it allows a payment, 
Ref: DRN28244523when it has reasonable grounds  to believe the payment may be an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (the Quincecare duty).
Of particular relevance to the circumstances of this complaint is the BSI code on protecting  
customers from harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. TSB werent  involved in forming 
the code, but I find it does  represent good  industry practice  something I am able to have 
regard to in determining the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. The code relays  
that firms should  take a proactive approach to identify out of character transactions or 
activity in order to prevent  potential harm to its customers, including  harm caused  by fraud or 
scams.
TSB says it has appropriate fraud detections systems in place, and these are in line with 
industry standards. It says the investigator  used the BSI code arbitrarily  as a tick list to 
determine whether  Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. Instead, it says that the individual  
circumstances of what happened should  be the determiner of whether it ought to have 
picked up on a transaction.
I agree  that the individual circumstances of a complaint will determine  whether TSB ought to 
have picked up on a transaction.  But that is not to say the BSI code is irrelevant to my 
considerations. It does  provide relevant examples of the kinds  of activity that banks should  
take into account when asked to process  payments.
I agree  too that a TSB customer may be the victim of a scam, but it doesnt  automatically 
follow that TSB is liable  for their loss. TSBs  obligations to detect  scams  and fraud must be 
balanced against its obligations to process customer payments. An overly restrictive  
approach could cause unnecessary delay and detriment to customers who rely on their 
banks to process their payments.
But I find that having processes and systems to detect fraud that may pick up on many  
instances of unusual activity, doesnt  mean  that any activity not picked up on means  a firm 
didnt need to do anything more. I find instead  that its important to consider what  wouldve 
been visible to TSB in terms  of what it knew about  how Mrs T uses  her account.
Mrs T never made a payment of this size in the six months prior to it being made. The 
largest payment  out I can see was a regular  monthly direct debit, which is almost three times 
smaller. Its also clear no other payments  were  made to individual  payees which came close 
to the size of the payment  in question. The payment  sum is also noticeable, given it took the 
account to the overdraft  limit to the last pence. I think  a payment which  utilises the full sum of 
available credit to the last pence is indicative of a potential safe account  scam. So, 
considering these factors cumulatively, Im satisfied the payment ought to have stood out as 
unusual for Mrs T given her general  spending  behaviour.
Mrs T does  utilise a substantial part of her overdraft,  and the payment represented the 
overdrafts continued  use. But I dont find this is a reason not to pick up on a payment 
instruction for a large payment leaving the account,  which hadnt happened  before. Nor do I 
agree that a large debit  out of Mrs Ts account  shouldnt be picked up on because  there 
were equivalent  sized payments  crediting  her account on occasion. Payments in and out of 
an account are clearly different types of activity requiring separate scrutiny.
Ref: DRN28244524TSB say it shouldnt bear any liability because its well publicised banks wont  ask customers 
to make payments  out of their accounts.  And when Mrs T made the payment, a warning 
wouldve told her that TSB never asks its customers to transfer  funds. Im satisfied that a 
warning can be a useful  tool to help a customer realise they may be falling victim to a scam.  
But whether  a warning  is sufficient to absolve  TSB of any further responsibility, is again  
dependant on the facts  of a complaint.
Mrs T fell victim to a sophisticated scam.  She explained in detail why she thought she was 
speaking to a legitimate  employee of TSB, and I think  it was reasonable for her to have  
concluded that she was. And I dont find the point that because safe account fraud is well 
publicised, is a persuasive reason to conclude Mrs T ought  to have known better.
The person  Mrs T spoke to knew her account  details and recent transactions, and the phone 
number presented as being from TSB.  She was clearly persuaded she was talking  to a 
genuine employee and mustve  been  very concerned to protect  her account, given how 
much she uses  it. So, in this context, I understand why the warning  wasnt  enough to alert 
her that she was not talking to a TSB employee.  And, on this occasion,  I dont  think its 
reasonable for TSB to rely on the warning as a means to not have  done  more.
In light of the above, Im satisfied the payment was clearly out of character  for Mrs T based 
on the information TSB had about how she uses her account. TSB ought to have picked up 
on the payment  and made efforts to contact  Mrs T. And had it done so, I find it very likely 
TSB wouldve prevented  Mrs T falling victim to the scam.
Im conscious some  of the upset Mrs T experienced was due to being  targeted  and tricked 
by a fraudster, which  is not something I can put at TSBs door. But Im satisfied that had TSB 
done what it shouldve,  it wouldve  prevented  the emotional distress that was no doubt 
caused by refusing to refund the payment. I find £200 represents fair compensation in these  
circumstances.
Putting things  right
I direct  TSB to: 
-Refund the payment of £1530.36.
-Restructure Mrs Ts account balance as if the payment had not been made, 
refunding any charges  or interest attributable to the payment.
-If on the account being restructured Mrs T wouldve come  out of her overdraft, TSB 
should pay 8% simple interest per annum on any positive  balance  until such time she 
went back into her overdraft.
-Pay Mrs T £200 for the trouble and upset TSB likely caused  her.
Ref: DRN28244525My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. And I require TSB Bank  plc to put things right and pay 
redress following the directions Ive given  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2824452