K820x#14complaint
In 2006, Mr R took out a mortgage  with Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds),  who were trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester. At the same  time,  Lloyds  sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. Mr R thinks that Lloyds mis-sold the policy to him and wants  it to 
refund him the premiums  he paid for it, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Lloyds had mis-sold  the policy to Mr R and didnt recommend that it should give him any 
money back. Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicator  and asked for an ombudsman  to review 
his case. So it has come to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr Rs case. Ive looked into everything that Mr R and Lloyds have told us or 
sent us about  his complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr R and Lloyds have  agreed that Mr R bought the policy during a meeting he attended at 
one of Lloyds  branches to arrange his mortgage.  Ive seen some of the paperwork which 
Lloyds and Mr R completed  either  during or shortly after this meeting and it seems to show  
that Lloyds gave Mr R a choice to take or decline PPI with his mortgage. In particular, Mr R 
signed paperwork for PPI which was separate  from his application  for the mortgage  and all 
the relevant documents  seem to have said that PPI was optional. 
Mr R has told us that as he took the mortgage  and bought PPI such  a long time ago he has 
no specific  recollection of the exact events at the time of application and appreciate(s) that 
(he) may indeed have  opted for PPI. But he has gone on to say that he now believes that 
the policy wasnt suitable for his circumstances and that he was never going to be in a 
position where (it) served (him) a legitimate gain.  He doesnt think  he could have claimed  on 
the policy and has told us that he wouldnt have  bought it if Lloyd had fully informed him 
about it.
Lloyds has told us that it recommended PPI to Mr R and advised him to take it. Mr R has told 
us that he cant  remember  whether Lloyds made  such a recommendation. But if Lloyds did 
recommend PPI, it would  have had to check that the policy it sold to Mr R was suitable for 
him, which included  checking that Mr R could  have claimed against  the cover  the policy 
provided, and tell him about it clearly and fairly  so he could decide if he wanted it. So in 
fairness to Mr R, Ive looked  into his complaint  on the basis  that Lloyds did recommend PPI 
to him. 
There arent any detailed  records  from the meeting, so I cant tell what questions, if any, 
Lloyds asked Mr R to check  if the PPI policy was suitable for him before it made its 
recommendation. So Ive looked into what I know about Mr Rs circumstance  in 2006 to see 
if it was reasonable  for Lloyds to recommend the policy to him.
Ref: DRN21087842Mr R has told us that when Lloyds sold him the policy he was on contract  work  with an 
agency and worked  abroad quite a bit. So he thinks he might have been excluded  from 
cover. 
The policy covered people who lived in the United Kingdom. On Mr Rs application form he 
gave a home address within the United  Kingdom  and he seems to have  been  living  here, so 
I dont think him working abroad would have prevented him from making a claim. 
The policy also says that it would cover people on fixed-term employment contracts if they 
had been employed by the same employer  for more than 24 months,  or were on yearly  
contracts which had been  renewed at least once, or had originally been  employed 
permanently by the same employer.  I understand that when Mr R bought the policy he had 
been employed by the same employer for well over two years.  I dont know  how long his 
individual contracts lasted, but it seems very likely  that the policy  would have covered him 
despite his contract  work.
Ive also checked  the policys other terms and conditions and Mr R doesnt seem  to have 
been affected by any of its main limitations or exclusions and he seems  to have been able to 
afford to pay for the policy. 
Mr R has also told us that he had some savings which  he could have used to make his 
mortgage repayments if necessary. But he may have wanted these for other things and the 
policy would have allowed him to keep them set aside  for these other  uses  if he had needed 
to make a claim. 
Mr R was borrowing a large amount of money  for a long time which  was secured against his 
home, so the effect of not keeping up his mortgage repayments could have been  serious for 
him. It seems to me that the policy provided  suitable  cover for Mr Rs circumstances and that 
he would  have been able to claim on it if necessary. I think  it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
recommend PPI to Mr R. 
I fully accept that Lloyds  may not have  explained  everything about the policy  to Mr R as 
clearly as it should have  done. But, Im satisfied that the policy  was suitable for Mr R, that he 
had a potential  need for the cover, that Lloyds gave him a choice about  it and that he could 
afford it. So I think that Mr R would still have bought the policy even if Lloyds had explained 
things to him properly.  I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold PPI to Mr R. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. I am not going  to tell it to give him any money  back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2108784