K821x#15complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr C on behalf  of his business  W. 
Mr C and W are represented by Mr Cs wife, Mrs J. 
Mr Cs complaint is about a claim he made under a China Taiping Insurance  (UK) Co Ltd 
(CTI) restaurants, shops and takeaways  business protection policy. Mr C is unhappy  about  
how that claim has been dealt with and the way in which CTI have calculated his claim.
background
In February 2018  Mr C was the victim of a very serious assault  whilst  at work. He sustained  
numerous injuries. As a consequence of this he was unable  to work so W closed and hasnt 
operated since then.
A claim  was made on his CTI policy. CTI instructed  an agent to consider  the claim. After  
considerable communications with Mrs J, CTI agreed to pay Mr C the following:
£150 for personal effects damaged during the assault
£100 per week under  the temporary  disablement section of the policy
Taxi costs of attending  an appointment with a consultant ophthalmologist who CTI 
had instructed to comment on whether Mr C was suffering from total and 
irrecoverable loss of sight
The payment of £100 per week was to be offset against the policy limit of £25,000 for loss of 
sight, once it could be established whether Mr C was suffering from total and irrecoverable 
sight loss.
Mr C was unhappy with this. He thought hed provided enough  evidence  to support his claim 
for loss of sight and that the payments of £100  per week  should  be paid in addition  to the 
policy limit of £25,000 for total blindness. He also thought CTI should pay him for loss of 
income and stock which perished  when he became unable  to run his business. In addition  
he felt that CTI had handled his claim badly and that he should  be compensated for this- 
both by way of a monetary award and by paying  interest on the sums  he was claiming for. 
He wanted to choose from three potential consultant ophthalmologists to assess his 
eyesight. 
 
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and upheld it. He initially  said that CTI should 
do the following:
Pay £250 compensation for the trouble  and upset  caused to Mr C.
Pay £800 stock  in trade
Pay £150 for personal affects 
Backdate the £100 payments from the point CTI received Mr Cs vision  impairment 
certificate and pay 8% simple interest   on this up to the date of settlement
Give Mr C a list of three independent and local ophthalmic consultants  to choose 
from and cover his transportation  costs  to that appointment.
He made  it clear however that the £100 payments  were deductible  from the overall sum of 
£25,000 applicable to the loss of sight claim. So if the medical evidence  supported  his claim  
Ref: DRN20925172for this then Mr C would only receive the balance of the total limit after the monthly payments 
of £100 had been deducted. 
CTI made several representations in response to our investigators findings. The investigator 
was persuaded  by some of those- namely in relation  to the reasons why a compensation 
and interest award  should not be made in this case. So his final view was that these should 
not be paid. He also accepted that CTI had found  it difficult to locate an ophthalmic 
consultant close  to where Mr C lived and that the closest one they could source  was 70 
miles away. Because of this, he agreed  it wasnt necessary for CTI to provide Mr C with 
details of three consultants to choose from, but reiterated that they should pay his taxi costs  
of attending that appointment.
CTI accepted the investigators second  view but Mr C has not. In particular hes unhappy 
that compensation and interest  wasnt awarded and that hes not been given three 
consultants to choose from. Because of this the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint, for the same reasons set out by our investigator in his final assessment of this 
dispute.
For the sake of completeness Ive commented briefly on the claims made by Mr C under the 
headings below.
Loss of income
Whilst the event which  gave rise to W being  unable to trade has undoubtedly  resulted in 
significant loss of income to Mr C, I cant say that CTI are obliged  to pay this claim. Thats 
because the policy only provides cover  for loss of income arising from certain circumstances 
and assault isnt one of them.
I can assure Mr C that Ive considered the circumstances  the policy  does cover  carefully  but 
there arent any that apply in this case.
Stock in trade
I agree  with CTI that the policy  doesnt  appear  to cover circumstances in which  stock  had to 
be disposed of because  it had deteriorated  over time. 
But given the nature of the correspondence  between CTIs agent and Mrs J, I think its fair 
and reasonable that a payment of £800  is made  in respect of this. Thats because I think  
those communications  raised an expectation  that Mr C would receive  this amount.  And  its 
clear from subsequent communications that CTIs refusal to pay this claim then caused  
distress. I think CTI shouldve  been  clear that no payments would be made  in respect  of this 
aspect of Mr Cs claim before potential settlement figures were mooted  for agreement by 
him.
Assault
There are a number of issues in relation to this section of the policy that Mr C is claiming for.
Ref: DRN20925173The first is in relation  to Mr Cs personal effects which  were  damaged  during the assault. I 
understand this claim amounts to £150 and that CTI have agreed  to cover this. I agree that 
this claim should be paid.
CTI has also offered to pay temporary  total disablement at a rate of £100  per week  to Mr C 
under section 5(2)(d)  of the policy. I agree  that this claim should be met and backdated  to 
the date that CTI or their agent first received  Mr Cs vision impairment certificate.  But I dont 
think CTI need to pay Mr C any interest  in respect  of this claim. 
Whilst I agree that the claim should have  been paid some significant time ago, I accept that 
CTI didnt have Mr Cs agreement to pay this, largely because Mrs J was in dispute  with 
them about  this amount  being paid independently of the limit of £25,000 applicable to Mr Cs 
loss of sight claim. So although CTI did offer to pay this claim on an interim basis,  Mrs J 
wasnt prepared to accept  this or provide  bank  details.  Because of this I dont think CTI need 
to pay any interest on this amount. 
I know that Mrs J has now accepted the position  that the payments of £100  per week will 
come out of the overall limit of the loss of sight claim, if it is paid. For the sake  of 
completeness I agree  with CTIs interpretation  of the policy  in this regard and in particular 
that the temporary disablement benefit is deductible from the loss of sight benefit, if paid.
As for the loss of sight claim  itself;  I appreciate  the problems CTI has faced in obtaining 
conclusive medical evidence to support whether Mr Cs loss of sight is total and 
irrecoverable as is required by the policy to meet this claim. Given the lack of detail in the 
medical evidence  theyve been  provided  with to date, I think its reasonable for them  to 
instruct the ophthalmic consultant theyve identified, particularly because  there  appears  to be 
a shortage of consultants  in the local area. I appreciate Mr C wanted  to be given a choice of 
three consultants to select from, but this doesnt  appear to be practical  in the circumstances. 
So I dont  think I can say that CTI have  done  anything wrong by offering to instruct  this 
particular consultant. Its of course  up to Mr C whether he wishes  to proceed with an 
assessment, but if he chooses not to do so, Im unlikely to find that CTI are acting 
unreasonably if they refuse to consider his claim for loss of sight further-  unless of course  
Mr C is able to provide his own evidence in relation  to this claim from an ophthalmic 
consultant. I understand that CTI have offered to pay Mr Cs transport  costs  for attending this 
appointment. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally, I note that no mention has been  made of the permanent  disablement  term contained 
within the policy. I assume thats because CTI are exploring the loss of sight  claim first 
because both carry the same claim limit and the policy  would only pay out for one of those 
amounts. If Mr Cs claim for loss of sight fails, I would expect CTI to consider whether  hes 
able to claim for permanent total disablement from attending to any and every occupation. I 
appreciate that theyll no doubt need further  medical  evidence  to consider this if the need  
arises and that such a claim cant be considered until two years  has expired from the date 
Mr C became disabled- which in this case  is the date of the assault. If that situation arises,  
Mr C will need  to cooperate with CTI if he wants this claim to be considered. 
Other
I understand that UKI has agreed to pay Mr C £70 in respect of the loss of personal cash 
which went missing during the assault. Given CTIs agreement to this and the fact that this 
issue doesnt seem to be in dispute,  I wont be making any findings in this regard.
Ref: DRN20925174I know that Mr C wants  CTI to pay him compensation for the way it dealt with his claim. And I 
appreciate that communications between  the parties  have  been  difficult and that both Mr C 
and Mrs J have been through a terrible ordeal as a result of the assault. But I think the award 
Ive made  below fairly compensates Mr C for the trouble  and upset he was caused- more 
particularly in relation to the stock in trade  claim. And for the reasons Ive set out above,  I 
dont think that any delays in receiving any sums from CTI were  because of something  CTI 
did. And I can see that CTI have made  reasonable efforts to obtain medical evidence  to 
clarify the loss of sight claim, which should now be progressed  as soon as possible.
fair compensation
CTI should  pay Mr C:
£150 for his personal affects damaged during the assault;
£800 in respect  of his stock in trade claim;
£100 per week under  the temporary  disablement section of the policy,  backdated to 
the time they received  a vision impairment  certificate from Mr C;
Taxi costs for attending an appointment with the consultant ophthalmologist CTI has 
instructed to comment on whether Mr C was suffering from total and irrecoverable 
loss of sight which CTI requires to assess this claim under  the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr C, trading as Wings Chinese Takeaways 
complaint against  China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd and direct it to comply  with my 
award of fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2092517