K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in August 2001.
background
Mrs H took out a plan known  as a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  TMPP can be 
split into three sections: Mortgage  Repayments Cover (which  is a form of MPPI), Life Cover 
and Critical Illness Cover  (CIC). Mrs H has complained about the MPPI cover  so Ive only 
looked at the sale of this part of the package  in this decision.
The policy cost just over £42 each month and it covered Mrs H in the event she wasnt 
working due to accident, sickness or unemployment   and it wouldve provided a monthly  
benefit of £707.35 for up to 24 months  following a successful claim. The policy  was 
cancelled in November  2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed  so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think its likely  Halifax  made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the MPPI and she 
chose to purchase the policy   although I can understand if she cant remember  this 
given how long ago it was.
I havent been able to look at all the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but I 
dont think this is surprising given how long ago the sale took place. However,  I do know 
that the way MPPI was presented in 2001  showed that it was optional, and that a 
customer needed to agree  for a policy to be set up. And Ive seen an extract of the 
application form in which Mrs H confirmed  she wanted the MPPI and signed to say so. 
So Im satisfied the policy was optional and I think its more likely that Mrs H was given a 
choice about the MPPI.  
Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mrs H so it had to check that the MPPI was right for 
her and, based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example, Mrs H wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover   
she told us she was employed  and in good health.
Mrs H was working at the time and she says she had some  good  occupational benefits 
from her employers if she was off work sick. But this doesnt automatically mean that the 
policy was unsuitable. This is because if she were unable  to work, the MPPI was 
intended to remove  the additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments,  at what  
would likely be a difficult time. And this wouldve  been important to Mrs H as she was 
solely responsible  for making those mortgage payments.
Ref: DRN28765972The MPPI wouldve  helped to pay the monthly  mortgage costs for up to 24 months  for 
each successful claim  and on top of any other  cover she had and for longer. So I dont 
think Mrs Hs existing work benefits  wouldve made  the PPI unsuitable. And I think it was 
reasonable of Halifax  to recommend it to her.
And although Mrs H says her family wouldve helped her if she needed help, there could 
be no guarantee that theyd be in a position to do so at some unknown point in the 
future.
  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs H about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out to protect herself  so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the MPPI  would  have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything else Mrs H told us, but these points dont change my decision. 
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund everything  Mrs H paid for it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2876597