K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains IG Markets Limited  didnt adequately assess  whether a Contracts  for 
Difference (CFD) trading account was appropriate for him. He considers the account was 
inappropriate and he shouldnt  have  been allowed to open  it. 
background
In October  2015 Mr H filled out an application  form to open a CFD trading account  with IG. 
The application form asked him several questions designed to establish his financial 
circumstances and his knowledge and experience in the relevant field.  
Mr H confirmed in the application that he traded  shares, derivatives  and OTC derivatives 
(and the application gave  as an example CFDs) often,  as opposed to rarely or never. And 
he confirmed that he traded  these products both on an execution only basis and with advice. 
He confirmed his annual income was between €25,000 and €74,999 and the total value  of 
his savings and investments  was between €20,000 and €49,999.  He indicated he was a 
broker in the financial industry and he ticked the box to confirm that he understood the risks 
of dealing with CFDs and had read the risk warning on the IG website. 
Shortly after opening his account, Mr H deposited €35,000 and began trading. He continued 
funding his account and trading regularly until the end of July 2018, when he withdrew the 
remaining balance. 
In October  2018 Mr H complained. He said that IG should never have allowed him to open 
the account, and hadnt  properly assessed  whether this type of trading was appropriate for 
him. He quantified his losses during  the period at €140,000. And he said that he would not 
have suffered such losses if IG had complied  with its obligations. In short, he also said:
The income and assets information he provided on the application form werent 
compatible with losses of €140,000,
IG didnt do anything  to educate and improve the knowledge regarding the products 
and services of IG. IG didnt give any specific warning as a consequence of the 
gathering of information on the application  form at all. 
The standard warnings which IG did provide  to Mr H were insufficient.
IG looked into his complaint,  but didnt consider it had done anything wrong. It said it didnt 
consider it had an obligation  to provide advice or to educate its clients in trading CFDs  
although it did provide educational material on its website which Mr H couldve taken 
advantage of. 
The information Mr H provided  on the application  form indicated that Mr H was experienced 
enough to understand CFD trading, and indeed had often carried out that type of trading. 
Finally, IG also noted that it had obtained  up to date information  from Mr H between  2015 
and 2018 in relation to his income and savings, and it was satisfied that CFD trading 
continued to be affordable  for him. 
Mr H remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint, but she also didnt consider  IG had done anything  wrong. In short, 
she considered  IG had carried out an appropriate  assessment in line with COBS 10, and its 
conclusion that a CFD account was appropriate for Mr H was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN23129602Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. He provided  
detailed submissions, which said in summary:
IG didnt investigate or assess Mr Hs knowledge  and experience.
IG didnt request information regarding Mr Hs knowledge and experience in relation 
to the execution of CFDs  (the type of service),  the transactions  or the designated 
investments. 
IG ought to have taken as a starting point  the fact that Mr H didnt have any 
knowledge or experience in CFDs at all, because it hadnt carried  out the appropriate 
investigations. And he said that if it had done,  it wouldve  established that Mr H didnt  
have any knowledge and experience regarding CFDs. 
IG ought to have found  that CFD trading wasnt appropriate for Mr H and warned 
him. 
CFDs  were only suitable for investors with much knowledge  and expertise as well as 
high risk appetite  and net worth. This wasnt the case for him. 
It was incorrect to say that simply because  he had kept the account open and traded 
for so long he was aware of the risks of CFD trading. In any event, this didnt absolve 
IG of its obligations  to assess the appropriateness of the account which it didnt do. 
The investigator had misunderstood the point he had made about stop losses   what 
he was in fact saying was that at some point  in time, IG shouldve stopped him from 
trading altogether. 
IG shouldve stopped him trading  when  he lost more than his income  and savings. 
Given that CFD trading is high risk and theres  a high probability of financial loss this 
type of trading isnt appropriate  for any retail investor. And if Mr H had known the 
high risks of this type of trading, he would never have  opened  the account. 
Mr H has lost more money  than he had and is now in debt as a result. This would 
never have happened  if IG had correctly  assessed the account as not appropriate for 
him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. 
Im afraid I also dont have much  to add to what the investigator has already said. Ive 
considered carefully  the points Mr H has made.  Id like to confirm that Ive read his detailed  
submissions in their entirety  and taken them into account when making my findings. 
However, I hope he doesnt  take it as a discourtesy  when I dont address all the points he 
has made, because thats not the purpose of my decision. The purpose of my decision is to 
explain my findings  on the key issues.  
And in this case the key issue is the information  Mr H provided when he filled out IGs 
application form. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H, but I disagree  with all the points he has made  about  that 
process. I wont  comment on what the authorities  of another  country  have said about CFD 
trading. But the rules  which  IG needed to follow and adhere to are clear that it is entitled to 
rely on the information Mr H provided  about his knowledge and experience.  
Mr H has said that he didnt have  any knowledge and experience  in trading CFDs at all  but 
then the question is, why did he tell IG that he did? And in fact, he indicated that he often 
Ref: DRN23129603carried out this type of trading  and this suggested his knowledge  and experience was 
extensive. On that basis, IG was entitled  to conclude that Mr Hs account was appropriate for 
him, because it was entitled to assume  that Mr H would  complete the application and be 
honest and truthful. And if Mr H suggested he had more experience in this type of trading 
than he really had, Im afraid I cant hold IG responsible for that. Mr H also said that the 
warnings he was given  about CFD trading  were  insufficient. Im not clear why that is. The 
warnings at the time explained that CFD trading was high risk, and that losses could exceed 
deposits. 
In any event, having looked  through  Mr Hs account,  Im also not convinced that he was an 
inexperienced trader. Within  a few months  of opening his accounts, he had already traded 
over 300 times  so arguably, within a few months  of opening  his account its not in dispute 
Mr H had experience  in trading CFDs, and must have been  well aware  of the risks this type 
of trading involves.  Five months after funding  it with £35,000, he added a further  £35,000 in 
February 2016, £75,000 in June 2016  and £20,000 in July 2017. In fact Mr H was very active 
on his account,  making  small deposits and withdrawals regularly. Between  October 2015 
and July 2018 he carried out over 2000 trades,  with around 40% of them being profitable 
ones. 
These are not the actions of an inexperienced  trader. Nor are they the actions of a trader 
who is unaware of the risk this type of trading involves. 
In any event, the account and the trading decisions were Mr Hs responsibility  and Im not 
persuaded theres anything in the way Mr H managed his account which I would consider 
ought to have prompted IG to prevent him from trading,  or take extreme measures such  as 
closing his account without his say-so. Ultimately,  if Mr H no longer wanted to trade  CFDs, 
he could simply have  stopped depositing  money  in his account and closed it himself.  There  
was nothing that prevented him from doing  that. 
Mr H has made a number of other points about  what it considers IG shouldve done.  Im not 
persuaded by his points  for example Im not persuaded IG had any particular obligation to 
educate Mr H in CFD trading. Even if it did, and Mr H considered he required such  
education, he hasnt  explained why he didnt make  use of the material  IG does provide on its 
website. He has also claimed that CFD trading isnt appropriate for any investor. Im afraid 
thats not a finding Im able to make. The regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority, is 
responsible for setting  the high level rules  about  what products UK firms can sell to what  
type of investor.  And when Mr H opened his account  with IG, there  were  no rules  which  
prohibited it selling this type of account to Mr H. It follows, therefore, that I dont consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to say that it shouldnt have done so. 
What I can say, however,  is that taking everything into account, Im satisfied IG followed the 
rules as laid out by the regulator  as they applied in 2015  when  it allowed Mr H to open  his 
account. And so Im not going to uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019
Ref: DRN23129604Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2312960