K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  has unfairly place a 
missed payment marker  on his credit file. He asks for his credit  file to be amended.
background
Mr T took out a hire purchase agreement  with VWFS to acquire a used vehicle in 2014.  On 6 
February 2018, VWFS sent Mr T a letter advising he had one month left of his agreement 
and listed the options open  to Mr T, one of which was to pay a final payment of £13,972.50.  
This was due to collected from Mr Ts account on 6 March 2018.
On 8 March 2018,  Mr T contacted VWFS  to explain the vehicle was undergoing repairs in 
the garage and would be ready in two weeks; he says he told VWFS he would then consider 
his options. He understood the representative  to have told him no further action would  be 
taken whilst the repairs were ongoing.
On 20 March, Mr T contacted VWFS  again,  he informed them  the repairs  still hadnt been 
completed and he didnt want to purchase  it or hand it back and be liable for any repair  
charges as this may include a new engine. Mr T asked about his credit  file and how this may 
affect it. VWFS explained they had a duty to report the management  of Mr Ts account 
accurately and so they wouldnt amend it.
On 13 April 2018, VWFS sent a reminder notice advising Mr T of the outstanding  balance 
and explaining the account  should be brought up to date to avoid a default  notice.  VWFS say 
no payment was received and so on 10 May 2018 it issued a default notice in respect  of the 
outstanding balance.
On 18 June 2018, Mr T contacted VWFS to explain  the vehicle was still undergoing repairs 
but he was now in a position to purchase the vehicle. He asked the VWFS representative he 
spoke to amend  his credit file and he would  settle  the finance in full. The representative 
agreed to put his request  to the relevant department. VWFS  declined  Mr Ts request to 
amend his credit file. It points out Mr T had the opportunity  to apply to refinance the final 
payment or request  a return of the vehicle  but didnt do either. It also says the ongoing  
repairs have no bearing on  Mr Ts financial obligations under the agreement.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. He said he understood Mr Ts vehicle needed 
repairs just before he was due to purchase  or return the vehicle and that would need some  
consideration. He listened  to the telephone  calls but didnt agree VWFS had said there 
would be no further  implications to his credit  file. He pointed out a business has a duty to 
accurately report how an account is conducted  and if Mr T paid the outstanding balance the 
account would now be marked  as settled on his credit file. In his view,  VWFS  had acted fairly 
and reasonably and so he didnt  ask them to do anything further.
Mr T disagreed. He feels the full picture  hasnt been established as to why he withheld 
payment. He isnt confident all the information  has been reviewed and so he asked for an 
ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information afresh 
Ref: DRN23477322from both parties. Having done  so, Im in agreement  with our investigators  view. Ill explain 
why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I appreciate Mr T unfortunately experienced problems with the vehicle just prior to the end of 
his agreement. The vehicle needed  repairs  and Mr T was concerned about whether to keep 
the vehicle or hand it back. 
The investigator has referenced the timeline of events, none  of which Mr T has disputed  and 
so I see no need  to detail them again.  In essence,  the final payment was due on 6 March 
2018 and Mr T didnt make that payment because of the ongoing repairs and the impact this 
had on him deciding which option to take. Whilst, I can empathise  with his indecision  that 
doesnt Im afraid negate his contractual  responsibility to reach a decision by the end of the 
term. 
VWFS wrote  to him prior to the end of the agreement outlining  the options  and as he didnt  
reach a decision  or inform  VWFS of his intentions,  it attempted to call the final payment, 
which was rejected by Mr Ts bank.  At that point the final payment became overdue.
Lenders that supply  data to Credit Reference  Agencies (CRAs) are required to ensure  that 
the data is accurate, up to date and meets agreed quality standards.  This means  VWFS are 
obliged to inform  them when a payment is late or remains unpaid.
I understand Mr T feels the VWFS representative in the discussions he had with them 
advised him there would  be no adverse information  placed on his credit file. I have listened 
to the telephone calls and Im afraid  I dont  agree.  The representative is clearly heard  to 
explain VWFS has a legal obligation  to report any late payments and also explains she cant  
amend or alter this.
The agreement clearly  says Mr T must  make  the final payment, trade the vehicle in or return 
it by the due date.  As Mr T didnt do any of these, albeit  as he explained as the vehicle was 
undergoing repairs,  Im not able to say VWFS  did anything  wrong  in reporting the information 
to the CRAs.
If Mr T settles  the outstanding balance his account will then be marked  as settled but Im 
satisfied VWFS have acted fairly and reasonably and so Im not going to ask then to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Wendy Steele
Ref: DRN23477323ombudsman
Ref: DRN2347732