K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  have unfairly declined  his claim for theft made 
under his home insurance policy.
background
Mr H took out additional  cover  as part of his home insurance for personal belongings whilst 
away from his home.  This included  his golf clubs as a specified  item.
Unfortunately, Mr Hs golf clubs  and some sunglasses were stolen from his car when it was 
parked outside  his address. Mr H made a claim which Aviva declined.  They  relied on a policy  
term which excludes theft from an unattended car unless  force  and violence is used.
Mr H had his car examined  by a technician at a garage.  The technician  said that there were 
no signs of forced entry  and that in his opinion Mr Hs key must  have been  cloned. Mr H 
presented this evidence to Aviva who maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Being unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
didnt think it should be upheld. She concluded that Aviva had acted fairly, as there wasnt 
evidence that violence had been  used  to gain entry to the vehicle. Mr H disagreed  and asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint.  
I liaised with both Aviva and Mr H to ask some further questions and set out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. Having given  both sides  a further opportunity  to comment,  
I can now go ahead with my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr H, so let me explain why. 
Mr Hs policy  says we will not cover theft from an unattended  vehicle (other than from a 
locked and concealed boot of a securely locked vehicle which  has been broken into by 
using force and violence.) 
I dont think this is an inherently unfair term. Possessions are at an increased risk of theft 
from an unattended vehicle and Aviva  are setting out that they will only cover such a theft in 
the circumstances mentioned  above.  Force and violence  arent specifically defined  within  the 
policy so Ive considered the everyday meaning of the words. 
When Mr H discovered the theft he took some photos at the time. Mr Hs car has four doors 
and a hatchback boot.  The pictures show that the drivers door is ajar and the boot is open. 
They also show that the remaining three  doors are locked and that the wing mirrors  are 
folded in. Mr H says the mirrors automatically fold in when the car is locked. He says he 
knows he locked the car when  leaving  it as he both heard the mechanism and saw the 
mirrors fold in. He says that his key must  have been cloned to gain access to his car.
Ive looked at the technicians report that Mr H obtained in relation to his car. This concludes  
that there  was no sign of forced entry to the vehicle. Based on this Im satisfied that 
someone didnt  break in to Mr Hs car by using force and violence. I think if that had 
Ref: DRN22509702happened, there would have been  some  signs or marks left. I dont think  a thief would be 
concerned about  causing  damage and dont think its credible that someone physically 
opened the locked doors using force and violence without leaving a trace.
Ive also considered whether the thief accessed  Mr Hs car using a cloned  key. This isnt 
because I think if a locked  car has been accessed  through some technological means; it 
would amount to violence. I dont think it would,  as thered be no physical contact with the 
car at all. So, it wouldnt be like forcing a lock or picking it with some sort of lock pick. It 
would be more like using  a skeleton  key. I wouldnt describe it as a physical act which  could 
properly be described  as violent in nature or character. 
But in these circumstances  Id still be likely  to conclude  that it isnt fair or reasonable for an 
insurer to rely on the above type of policy term to decline  a claim. This is because  the point  
of the term is to make sure the insured person does everything possible to secure  the car. 
And if they did this, I think it would  be unfair  for the insurer  to still decline their claim, when 
there was nothing more  they could reasonably have expected to be done  to engage the 
cover the policy  provides  for items in unattended vehicles. 
So, Ive considered the technicians comment about  a cloned key in Mr Hs case. He states  
there is no sign of forced  entry the only explanation would  be cloning of the vehicles key 
fob. The report contains  only three sentences in total and doesnt go into detail about why 
the technician  thinks cloning  is the only explanation. This report  isnt sufficient in itself to 
persuade me that the car was accessed through the key having been cloned. 
I asked Mr H some further questions about his car key and how it works. He explained that 
you press  one button which unlocks and another  one which  locks  all the doors. It isnt 
possible to lock and unlock individual doors. It also isnt keyless  entry which  works through 
the proximity of the key to the car. 
I appreciate the advice  Mr H says he was given by the car manufacturer  about keeping his 
key in a metal box to avoid theft. But this would  only apply to keyless  entry, which  Mr Hs car 
doesnt have.  The type of key Mr H has only emits a signal when a button is depressed,  
rather than a keyless device which always  emits  a signal and works on proximity.  
So to clone  Mr Hs key, a thief would have  needed  access to both Mr Hs key and the car 
itself to program a new key. This doesnt fit the circumstances Mr H has described. And 
even if it did, Mr Hs own photographs show that upon discovery of the theft, some doors 
were unlocked and others  were  locked. If someone had successfully cloned a key, I would  
expect all the doors to be in the same state,  either locked or unlocked.  Not a combination of 
the two. 
Taking everything into consideration in the circumstances  specific  to Mr Hs complaint, Im 
not persuaded there is evidence to support  that his car was accessed via a cloned key for 
the reasons Ive explained. And, as there is no evidence  of violence having been  used  to 
break into the car, Im not going to interfere  with Avivas decision to decline the claim for that 
reason.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN22509703Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2250970