K820x#14complaint
Mr T had a lifetime mortgage  with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. He complains about the 
early repayment charge  (ERC), which has been applied. 
background
In 2004 Mr T and his wife (who I am sorry to note passed away in 2013) took out an equity 
release mortgage  with Aviva (previously Norwich Union). They borrowed £600,000 which  
was the maximum amount they were  entitled  to borrow.
If the mortgage was redeemed  for any reason other than the borrower needing  full time 
nursing care or the death of the last surviving borrower,  an ERC would be payable. The loan 
agreement showed  how this would be calculated, against gilt yields.
Aviva told Mr T that if he wanted to port (transfer) his mortgage  to a new property; he may 
not be charged the ERC. But Mr T didnt take that option and redeemed the mortgage 
instead.
He was charged an ERC of £150,000 which he feels  is excessive and would  like this to be 
waived or reduced. He believes that this has been charged unfairly. Aviva explained how the 
ERC was worked  out and didnt agree that they were unfair  in charging it.
Mr T was unhappy with what Aviva had said so he brought  the complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator  didnt  think that Aviva 
had applied  the ERC unfairly.
Mr T didnt  agree. He made the following  comments:
when they took out the equity  release  in 2004,  the product was not regulated or 
covered by the Financial Ombudsman  Service. He said that the lender was not 
therefore required to check the suitability of the product; properly and fully explain 
key terms or ensure  they received  suitable  advice
he wants us to apply  our fair and reasonable test as indicated on our website taking 
into account applicable law and the investment climate change
Aviva  didnt modify the agreement  to reflect or comply with the new standards  of 
regulation
Mr T asked  for the complaint to be looked  at by an ombudsman so the case  has come  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, I wont 
be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Id firstly  like to reassure Mr T that I have taken into account legislation,  regulation  and good 
industry practice in reaching my decision. This includes changes  to the investment climate. 
Ref: DRN23077762Mr T has made  reference to the equity release product not being regulated when they took it 
out in 2004. His complaint is not about  the suitability of the product, but about the ERC that 
has been applied  to the loan. I therefore  wont be looking  into whether I think the product 
was suitable for both him and his wife at the time,  but specifically  about  the ERC  that has 
been applied.
Mr T has also mentioned that Aviva  didnt modify his agreement when mortgage regulation 
was introduced. But Aviva were  not required to and we have  considered the complaint in line 
with current rules and regulations.
Ive looked at the loan agreement which shows how the ERC  is calculated. Ive thought 
about whether  this charge  has been  applied fairly and reasonably. Lifetime  mortgages  are 
intended to stay in place  until a borrower  goes into long term care,  or until the death of the 
last surviving borrower. Because  Mr T wanted to redeem his mortgage early, the ERC 
payment became applicable.
The ERC on Mr Ts mortgage was linked  to a specific  gilt yield which isnt unusual  with this 
type of mortgage.  The loan agreement  sets out that if the gilt redemption  yield is lower than 
the redemption  yield was when the mortgage completed,  the difference  will be used to 
calculate any ERC. A table provided  at the end of the loan agreement  shows examples of 
what the ERC might be in those situations. This was dependent on changes  to the gilt yield 
and the length of time the loan was held for. I think this information  was clear and showed  
the circumstances which an ERC  would need to be paid. In response to Mr Ts point, this 
shows the ERC has taken  into account  the investment  climate.
At the time the loan was taken out Aviva said that the gilt redemption  yield was 1.84%. But at 
the date of their redemption statement  on 12 February 2018 it was -1.43%. This is a 
difference of 3.27%  which means an ERC  of £150,000 applied  on that date.
I appreciate that the amount of the ERC  is a concern to Mr T, but having  looked at the loan 
agreement, I think  it clearly explains when it would be charged and why. So I cant say that 
Aviva didnt make Mr and Mrs T aware at the time of what  might  be payable  in the future   if 
they decided to redeem the mortgage  early.  In addition  to that, Mr T wouldnt have incurred 
the ERC  because Aviva  would have let him port (transfer) his mortgage  to another  property if 
he wanted to. This would have meant  that the ERC wouldnt  be payable.
Aviva is also a member of the Equity  Release Council (ERC), previously known as Safe 
Homes Income Plans (SHIP),  which  is an industry  body set up to improve  consumer 
confidence in equity release. The purpose of this was to provide protection  to customers  and 
set out standards and practices to ensure that Aviva  were compliant. This means that for 
part of this practice, Aviva had to make sure those customers  received independent  legal 
advice before taking  out a lifetime mortgage   which Mr and Mrs T did.
The SHIP  certificate confirms that the solicitor explained the terms and effects of the plan to 
Mr and Mrs T along with other  important  information  about how the mortgage worked. Ive 
seen a copy of the SHIP  certificate confirming the solicitors had explained the plan to 
Mr and Mrs T who still wished to proceed.
Ref: DRN23077763I understand that Mr T has paid the ERC  to Aviva  and this loan has been repaid. But Im 
satisfied that the ERC was charged in line with the terms of the loan agreement. As the 
circumstances under which the ERC  would be charged were set out in a clear  way, I think  
Aviva acted reasonably  in applying it. It wouldnt therefore be fair for me to say that it should  
be refunded.
I appreciate this will be a disappointment for Mr T but I dont think  that Aviva  have  acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in applying the ERC.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2307776