K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing  with 
his application  to move his buy-to-let mortgage  to a new property. He wants compensation, 
for Clydesdale  to let him move his mortgage  without requiring  rental income of at least 
£1500 a month and extra  six months  to complete the transaction;  in the alternative, he wants  
to be able to go to another lender without paying  an early  repayment charge.
background
Mr S had a portable buy-to-let mortgage  with Clydesdale, which he wanted  to move to 
another property.  Mr S said that the new property required  less maintenance and the 
borrowing would be lower  (which could trigger payment of an early repayment charge). Mr S 
contacted Clydesdale and said that he was told that the new propertys  rental income would 
need to be 110% of the monthly mortgage  payment. 
Mr S applied to move  the mortgage unsuccessfully. Clydesdale was unhappy that the rental 
income was less than £1500  a month; it estimated that the income would be £1350. Mr S 
challenged this assessment. He thought Clydesdale was being unreasonable in reducing  his 
flexibility, that it shouldnt  impose a minimum monthly rental policy and should reconsider his 
application. Mr S also said that Clydesdale gave  him unclear or incorrect  information.
Mr S complained to Clydesdale. It noted  that Mr S had decided to sell his property and pay 
the early repayment  charge before he made the application as the charge could be refunded  
up to six months after redemption. Clydesdale said that Mr S was told over the phone a 
number of times that any application to port the mortgage would be subject to a full 
application, affordability and credit  checks, and that if his application failed, he wouldnt be 
able to transfer the mortgage to a new property. Clydesdale  wasnt willing to overturn its 
decision based on its lending policies.
Mr S complained to us. The investigators view was that Clydesdale didnt have  to lend if it 
felt the risk was too great and it was able to apply its lending  policies.  He pointed out that 
Mr S emailed Clydesdale  and said that the monthly  income for the new property would be 
£1500, which then allowed it to process the application further.  The investigator also noted 
that Mr S was told in writing months before he sold his property that the application  to move 
the mortgage to the new property was dependent on the rental  income not being reduced. 
He said Mr S was aware of the lending policy and in any event  intended to sell his old 
property. The investigator also said that it was fair and reasonable for Clydesdale to rely on 
an independent expert opinion about  the future rental income  and provided  correct 
information.
 
Mr S disagreed. He said Clydesdale  shouldve told him earlier  about  its lending policies and 
couldnt pull out of the sale when he was formally notified. Mr S remained of the view that the 
lending policies were  unfair and the valuation shouldve been reviewed. The investigator 
explained that Clydesdale only changed  its policy after Mr S first asked about the possibility 
of porting the mortgage, but then promptly notified Mr S about the change.  Mr S said 
Clydesdale shouldve accepted his rental estimation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28967352Buy-to-let mortgages such as Mr S are commercial loans, so the rules  for residential 
mortgages dont  apply. In the mortgage  offer accepted by Mr S (who I note took his 
mortgage out through a broker), it states that porting applications  had to meet  Clydesdales  
lending policies to succeed.
Lenders are able to set lending policies and decide  to whom theyre willing to lend and on 
what basis. This is acceptable, provided the policies are applied  fairly and reasonably.  And 
those policies change  from time to time;  lenders apply the policies that apply at the time of 
application, even  when dealing with porting applications. Lenders arent required to tell 
customers about all of their lending policies; they can change  often  and can be confidential.
Clydesdale decided to change its policies to require a minimum rental income of £1500 a 
month (which Mr S old property  met, but the new property didnt). This is something which 
with this service wouldnt  interfere. Having considered the evidence  available to me, I can 
see that this policy was applied to Mr S and I think it was fair and reasonable to treat him the 
same as other customers making  a similar application. 
Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably in relying on an independent experts opinion about 
the future  rental  income  from the new property and in concluding that Mr S application  failed 
to meet  its lending policies. It considered  Mr S appeal, which is also fair and reasonable in 
my view, but in the end Clydesdale preferred the independent expert opinion, which  it was 
entitled to do.
Having considered all the evidence available to me, I cant find that Clydesdale  provided 
incorrect or confusing information  to Mr S. I do find that it confirmed in writing in good  time 
details of the lending policy that led to the failure of the porting application, and that Mr S 
said his application  would  meet that policy. I dont think Clydesdale acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 14 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2896735