K820x#14complaint
S complains that Barrs Insurance Services provided misleading information  about a liability  
insurance policy they sold in 2011,  which prevented  it from making  a successful claim.
S is represented by one of its Partners,  Mr R.
background
In May 2011  Barrs Insurance Services sold S a policy to cover it in the event that claims 
were made against it. The policy was renewed annually and later voided in May 2017  by the 
insurer. This was when came to light that S had wrongly confirmed it didnt  employ bona fide 
contractors. As a consequence, the insurer refunded  all the premiums paid by S to date.
S was unhappy with this- the issue came about  because a claim  had been  made  against  S. 
But the insurer wouldnt cover the claim because insurance wasnt  in place to cover a 
situation where bona fide contractors had been employed by S.  
Mr R says Barrs Insurance  Services are responsible for this. In particular Mr R feels that 
Barrs gave  him misleading information that led him to believe the contractors S had engaged 
would be covered by the policy. Because they werent, Mr R feels  Barrs should  step into the 
shoes of the insurer and indemnify the claim made  against S.
Barrs doesnt agree. They say that Mr R completed a statement of fact when the insurance 
was sold. In doing so he confirmed that bona  fide contractors werent  used by S. Mr R feels  
that he answered these  questions  based on the information Barrs gave him.
Our investigator considered Ss complaint  and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Thats 
because he thought that he hadnt seen enough  to suggest Mr R had been given misleading 
information when  the policy was sold and then renewed each year. Mr R doesnt  agree. He 
says that Barrs knew the nature of Rs business  and put in place a policy  that was unsuitable 
for its needs because they didnt understand what they were selling. Because of this the 
matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the meaning of a bona fide contractor  and the meaning of this within 
the context of the policy S was sold. 
Bona fide contractors are generally understood to be contractors who work without direction
from the policyholder,  hold their own insurance  and usually provide their own materials and 
tools. For the purposes of the policy S purchased, it was a requirement that any bona  fide 
contractors they used werent paid more than 25% of Ss revenue.
Mr R believes  Barrs  mislead S into buying  insurance that was unsuitable for its needs 
because they always employed bona fide sub-contractors who were paid more than 25% of 
Ss revenue  in any given  financial year.  Mr R says Barrs had copies of Ss year end 
Ref: DRN26806262accounts which would have made  this clear when the insurance was sold and that Barrs  
shouldve understood the nature  of Ss business.
The policy was sold by Barrs on an advised basis, so they needed to ensure it was suitable 
for Ss needs  and circumstances. Due to the passage of time, theres little to show  what  
information S gave  Barrs about their business  when the policy was sold and what advice 
Barrs provided in response to that. Its clear from the statement of fact that S confirmed it 
didnt employ bona  fide contractors at all. It also said payments to bona  fide contractors 
didnt exceed  25% of their annual turnover. Mr R says that these  questions  were answered 
off the back of Barrs providing misleading  information about what a bona fide contractor was. 
But I dont see what that misleading information  couldve been, such  that it wouldve led 
Mr R to accept  the information contained  within the statement of fact as correct. S wouldve 
been clear about  the nature of the business it conducted, the type of sub-contractors it 
employed, whether  they had their own insurance and the percentage of turnover its 
contractors were paid. So I wouldve expected  this to prompt  Mr R to ask Barrs about this 
before agreeing to the statement of fact. This is because the statement of fact confirms its 
essential all the information is accurate and any incorrect information  should be highlighted.  
Barrs covering letter enclosing  this also sets out that any inaccuracies  could result in the 
insurance becoming invalid. 
Mr R says Barrs had access to Ss year end accounts but I dont know whether if that means  
that Mr R specifically gave these to S before the policy was sold and if so how those  
accounts were presented.  If Mr R did give Barrs their year-end  accounts, and it was clear 
from those accounts  that S was employing  bona fide sub-contractors  (and that the amount 
they were being  paid exceeded 25% of Ss turnover), then I wouldve expected Mr R to tell S 
about this when the insurance was being discussed.  And if not then, when the statement of 
fact was received  by S. Thats because the information was something S wouldve known 
about so shouldve told Barrs  so they could made  sure that the cover  they were  offering was 
suitable. 
Ive also considered what Mr R has said about some remarks made by Barrs in an email 
exchange in 2017 which suggests they didnt understand what  bona  fide contractors were. 
But I agree  with the investigator that this doesnt  support  the position that they gave S 
misleading information about this when the policy was sold in 2011, then renewed annually. 
In order to make that finding, Id need to see something that persuades me it was more  likely 
than not that Barrs did something  that made S believe the contractors they employed  werent  
bona fide. Given the nature of Ss business and the absence of any contemporaneous 
evidence that supports  what  it says, I cant say that Barrs did anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN26806263my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ss complaint against Barrs Insurance  
Services.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019. 
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2680626