K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the way that their claim for water damage and the 
subsequent repairs  and return of a fridge freezer were dealt with by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
In July 2016 Mr and Mrs C made  a claim to RSA following a leak in a pipe under  the floor 
which had caused  the wood floor in the kitchen,  dining room and hallway to be flooded.  RSA 
accepted the claim. Mrs C is disabled and it was decided to move her into a nursing home 
for the duration  of the repairs. Mr C stayed with friends. The claim included replacement  of 
the wooden flooring. By May 2017 the repairs were completed and the contents  were 
returned in June 2017. However in returning the contents the removal  contractors caused  
deep scratches in the new floor. RSA agreed  to appoint  a French  polisher to carry out further 
repairs to the floor,  and the contents had to be removed again. These further  repairs to the 
floor ware  said to be completed  by the end of July 2017. But Mr C was dissatisfied with the 
finish saying it had an orange peel  effect  to it. Repeated attempts were  made  to sand and 
re-varnish the floor properly, and too much  wood was taken off the surface.
The contractors said they tried repeatedly to return the contents to Mr and Mrs C whilst the 
dispute was on-going. Mr C denies this and says discussions about the required further 
repairs went on without his knowledge.  In the meantime  Mrs C remained in the nursing 
home which RSA continued  to fund up until January 2018.
It was decided that the floor needed  to be replaced  again. This was carried out from 
March 2018. The contents were returned on 25 April 2018 and Mr C says more  scratches  
and marks were made on the floor. Additionally  the fridge freezer was damaged  and the drip 
tray went missing. When the fridge freezer was put back, the cold water valve was damaged.  
Mr C had to employ a plumber to repair  it. After the plumber had finished, the fridge  freezer  
was switched on and left to generate ice. Mr C returned to the property two days later to find 
the floor was flooded  again.
 
He contacted RSA again  and said the damage must have been caused  by the removal 
contractors careless handling.  RSA agreed to pay for Mr Cs plumbers invoice  and for the 
missing drip tray and the external damage (scratches) to the fridge freezer. It denied 
however that its contractors were responsible for the subsequent leak, and advised Mr C 
that he should put in a new claim for this. If the floor needed replacing again this would 
resolve any new scratches. It sent out a loss adjuster to review this and maintained  its 
position. It agreed to pay compensation  of £500. But as it said the home was habitable it 
wouldnt pay any further nursing home fees.
Mr C wouldnt  make a new claim, as he believed that the contractors were responsible for 
the new leak. He also continued to pay for Mrs C to stay in the nursing home which  he asked 
RSA to reimburse him for. He further said that hed had to pay his friend (with whom he was 
staying) £400 per month towards  household  bills and had had no reimbursement from RSA.  
He also said the nursing  home fees for February,  March and April 2018 should  be paid as 
this was before the contents were  returned.  RSA denied any further  liability  for nursing home 
fees.
After referral to this service and after obtaining further information from RSA, our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She said, with regard to the nursing home fees that RSAs 
Ref: DRN23567132contractors had attempted to return the contents several times and that Mr and Mrs C could 
have lived in the property while the dispute over the new flooring was resolved. As RSA had 
paid those fees up until January 2018 she didnt think it should pay any more. She thought 
that RSAs proposals  to resolve the matter were reasonable.
Mr C disputed that RSA had tried to return the contents. He felt that it should at least  pay the 
nursing home fees up until September 2018  when  RSA sent its first response letter. He 
wasnt told he shouldnt have moved  back in before then. He continues to believe that the 
contractors were responsible for the further  leak and should remedy  it.
I issued a provisional decision. I wasnt satisfied  that RSA had attempted to return  the 
contents or that Mr and Mrs C were  able to live in the home while  the flooring issue was 
being addressed.  I said that RSA should  pay Mrs Cs nursing home fees for the period up 
until April 2018. I further said that RSA should  pay Mr and Mrs Cs plumbers bill and the cost 
of repairing  the scratches  on the fridge  freezer.  I wasnt satisfied that RSA was responsible 
for the further  flooding and said that Mr and Mrs C should have as suggested made  a new 
claim for this.
Mr C responded as follows:
He believes RSA should pay the nursing home fees up until December 2018 (rather than 
September 2018) when it advised  him of its final decision. He wasnt  told during  this time 
that RSA wasnt going  to pay the fees and assumed that it would continue to do so until it 
agreed responsibility for the further flood damage. He didnt feel that he should  have 
made a further  claim as he believed the contractors  were responsible for the further  
flooding, and that RSA was taking  the easy way out. He would have made a further claim 
had he known that RSA considered the property to be habitable and wasnt  going to pay 
the nursing home  fees. 
He believes it would  in any event have been impractical  for Mrs C to return  to the 
property straight away. Based on their experience  of her returning  home  after December 
2018 this took about  two months.  Notice had to be given to the nursing home and a new 
risk assessment needed to be carried out. So he doesnt believe it would be fair in any 
event to stop the nursing home payments from April 2018.
He doesnt  propose  to claim for any living costs while  he was out of the home.
As the fridge freezer  has been left so long hes been told by a service engineer that its 
likely that the pipework will have  to be replaced,  because of the build-up of bacteria. Hes 
been told it would be cheaper to buy a new fridge freezer.
Hes unsure about how a further claim would work. In the current  climate Mrs C would be 
very concerned  about returning  to a nursing home.
RSA pointed out that it had paid the nursing home fees up until January 2018  but received 
no further invoices  or requests for payment from Mr C. It wondered if the local authority was 
funding this. With regard  to the fridge freezer it had already offered to pay for the possible 
external damage  cause  whilst it was being handled
Ref: DRN23567133my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
nursing home payments  up until 25 April 2018
Despite RSAs assertions  Ive seen no documentary evidence (eg emails,  phone records, 
letters) to confirm that there were discussions going on in late 2018 with Mr C or that the 
contractors were trying repeatedly to return the contents. As far as I can see Mr C was 
disappointed with the finish to the new floor and the contractor tried several  times  to remedy 
this. Eventually it was decided to replace  the flooring again. During this period RSA was 
funding the nursing home fees and Ive seen no evidence that it warned  Mr C its payments 
would stop. I think  it reasonable to accept Mr Cs statement that the discussions  over the 
floor were  taking place without him. And RSA continued to fund the nursing home payments 
up until January 2018.  Then the further  replacement of the floor took place and the contents 
were returned on 25 April. My view is that RSA should pay for the nursing home fees for 
February March and April 2018.  It should  add interest at 8% from the date Mr C paid each 
instalment.
damage to the fridge freezer and further leak
Mr C asserts that the contractors were responsible for the further leak from the fridge 
freezer. The contractors  did damage the cold water feed when they brought the fridge 
freezer back but this was repaired by Mr Cs plumber. There are scratches on the fridge 
freezer which look to me that they were caused by poor handling. And the drip tray for the 
water dispenser is missing. RSA said it would  pay the plumbers invoice and £150 for the 
drip tray. I think it should also assess the scratches  on the side of the freezer.
But as for whether the contractors were  responsible for the fridge  freezer leaking I cant 
really say from the evidence that this was most likely the case. The leak came  from a 
different area and the plumber had fixed the damaged fitting and connected  it up. Without an 
expert report to say the leak was caused by poor handling Im not able to say the contractors  
were responsible for this.
The review  by RSA I think  doesnt  indicate  to me that the home  was uninhabitable  because  
of the further leak, so I dont think that RSA should  pay any further nursing home costs apart 
from those Ive outlined  above. I can understand in light of the history  of the matter why Mr C 
expected RSA to carry on paying for the nursing home. But the contents had been  returned 
and it was clear that RSA wasnt taking any further  steps. Nor did it say it would continue 
funding the nursing home payments.
RSA proposed that Mr and Mrs C put in a new claim for the further  leak and I think  in the 
circumstances thats a reasonable solution  Mr C did advise that the floor had further 
scratches but if he makes  a new claim its likely  that this will be resolved. I accept that if the 
floor is to be taken up and replaced  again Mrs C may well have to stay in a nursing home for 
that period. But Mr and Mrs C would have to make the new claim first.
Ref: DRN23567134Mr Cs living  costs
Whilst Mrs C was in a nursing home Mr C says he stayed with a friend,  and paid £400 per 
month towards the bills. The alternative accommodation allowance  is intended to pay for 
costs like rent and any extra costs incurred over and above  what  would have been incurred 
living at home. Presumably whilst  the home  was vacant  Mr C wouldnt have had so much  in 
bills to pay. And only if he can show he had to spend more on food than normal  would RSA 
have to cover the extra cost incurred. RSA has said it would  be prepared to consider any 
such payments if Mr C produces evidence of what hes spent. I think  thats  a reasonable 
position to take.
compensation
RSA paid Mr and Mrs C £500  compensation because of the long time the claim (and 
subsequent repairs) had been  ongoing  (in January 2019). I think in the circumstances of this 
case thats fair and reasonable,  and is in line with awards we have  made in similar  cases.
I think the issue in regard to the nursing home  fees,  at least while  the first claim was being 
resolved and the flooring  repaired, is not whether Mr C should have told RSA that the fees 
were still payable, but whether in the ordinary course of events RSA should pay those fees.
I think the home was uninhabitable for Mrs C at least  while  the flooring was being  dealt with. 
RSA had previously  agreed  to pay the nursing home  fees on that basis. Mr C did advise 
RSA in full about his liability  by email dated  20 December 2018. It might affect RSAs liability 
to pay interest but as Im aware he didnt pay the outstanding fees until after that date.  I dont 
need to change my award in that respect .
Mr C makes the point that it wouldnt have  been  practical for Mrs C to return to the property 
straight away. I think this has to be taken into account. And bearing in mind  Mr and Mrs Cs 
experience when she did return after December 2018 I think  it would be reasonable to allow 
for a further two months  (for May and June 2018) nursing  home fees. I have advised RSA of 
my intention to award those further fees.  Mr R should advise  RSA about the fees and send it 
copies of any paid invoices so that it can calculate  the interest. I should add here that as this 
relates to what were remedial repairs after the original  claim, any payment is outside  any 
terms of the policy  concerning financial  limits  for alternative accommodation
But with regard to the fees from June 2018 onwards Im afraid  I dont think  RSA is liable for 
them. Mr C appears not to have advised  RSA about  the outstanding nursing home fees until 
December 2018.  He would have been  aware  that the contents had been returned. From 
considering the photos of the floor I dont think it can be said that the home was 
uninhabitable. If a second claim had proceeded Mrs C may have had to move back to the 
nursing home but that doesnt mean she couldnt have lived in the home.  As she was able to 
move back  later without any action being  taken over the flooring this justifies  RSAs decision.
Ive noted that Mr C doesnt intend  to claim for his living expenses while out of the home.
As regards  the fridge freezer,  as I havent found that RSA is responsible for it being out of 
action for so long I cant take any further action  in that respect.
And as regards making a second  claim for the flooring, I understand Mr and Mrs Cs 
dilemma over the nursing  home. That is a decision they will have to make with RSA, if they 
decide to pursue a further claim.
Ref: DRN23567135Save as Ive outlined above, my provisional findings  are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
pay to Mr and Mrs C the amount  of Mrs Cs nursing home fees for February,  March,  
April, May and June  2018. It should add interest* at 8% from the date each instalment 
was paid by Mr C until the date it settles my award.
pay the cost (if not already  paid) of repairing the scratches to the fridge freezer  and of a 
new drip tray for the drinks dispenser  and Mr Cs plumbers invoice. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid.  Should Mr and Mrs C request it, it should provide them  with a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN2356713