K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 
alongside a hire purchase agreement.  The PPI was added to the account at the same  time 
Mrs B signed the agreement.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs B says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 2 August 2019, which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1998 alongside  a 
hire purchase agreement. The PPI was added to the account at the same time Mrs B signed  the 
agreement.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Ref: DRN27924222Mrs B says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Bs case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she was not aware shed taken out the policy and that she believed it was added without 
her knowledge or consent. But based on the evidence  Ive seen I think its likely FICL  made  it clear  
the PPI was optional and Mrs B chose to take it out  although I can understand if she cant 
remember this. I say this having seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement Mrs B saw and signed. 
This shows there was a section for PPI and there is an X in the box to agree to the cover   and I 
think its likely this had been entered following a discussion about the PPI where  Mrs B agreed to take 
it out. The form was then printed and Mrs B signed at the bottom to agree  to its contents  so I think 
this reflected what she wanted at the time.
Mrs B says she was advised  to take out the PPI, but FICL says no advice  or recommendation  was 
given. From what weve seen of these types of sales in the past they were usually sold on a non-
advised basis.  And Ive not seen any persuasive  evidence that anything  different happened in this 
sale, so Ive considered this as a non-advised sale in my decision.
This means  FICL didnt have to check if the policy  was right for her, but it did have to make sure Mrs 
B got the information she needed to decide if the PPI was right for her. Its possible the information 
FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been, including the information  about  
the cost of the policy. Our adjudicator felt that the complaint should be upheld because  the cost of the 
policy wasnt disclosed and he felt Mrs B wouldnt have taken out the policy had she been made 
aware of how much it costed.
Ive thought carefully about  this and Ive also considered Mrs Bs circumstances at the time. The cost 
of the policy was 12% of her monthly  repayment amount,  but this works out to less than £10. And this 
wouldve paid out in the event Mrs B had an accident, was too sick to work, or was made unemployed 
for up to 12 months.  The policy  wouldve also paid off the entire outstanding balance  in the event Mrs 
B died. Mrs B told us that she wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer  and I havent seen 
any evidence she had any other  savings  or insurances  in place  at the time. She has said that she 
wouldve been  able to rely on her family to support her, but help from others cant  always be 
guaranteed as their circumstances  can also change over time.  So I think she wouldve  found this 
policy useful and I still think she wouldve chosen to take it out had she been made aware of the cost.
Looking at everything else Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like Mrs B was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so I think it would  have been useful for 
her if something went  wrong.  And overall  I dont  think  better information about the PPI would  have put 
her off taking out the cover.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 2 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2792422