K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc offered him a loan at 3.3%  interest but when he 
completed the application online it increased the rate to 7.9%.
background
Mr Y had two previous  loans with HSBC with an interest rate of 3.3%. When hed finished  
paying off his last loan it wrote to him inviting him to apply for another  loan at the same rate. 
But when he completed the application  form online  the rate increased to 7.9%.  He cant  
understand why the rate increased because he says his circumstances  have improved since 
his last application.
HSBC said the 3.3%  rate in its letter  was a representative rate and not a quotation. It makes 
a decision on all lending applications  based  on the information provided on the application  
form, details it already holds and any information  from the Credit  Reference Agencies 
(CRAs).
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  had done  anything wrong.  He said the marketing letter 
made it clear  the rate in the letter was only an indication. He could see that it had followed its 
processes when it assessed his application.  But he said that HSBC couldnt provide him with 
its lending criteria because it was commercially  sensitive.
Mr Y wasnt  happy with this. He said the difference in interest  rates was so large  that he 
wanted to know  the exact  details that led to the increase.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. I can see hes taken everything into 
account so theres  not much I can add to what hes already told Mr Y.
Im satisfied HSBC made it clear  that the 3.3%  interest rate was an indication  only.  And 
when Mr Y completed his application form it followed its internal processes in assessing the 
rate it would offer him. We cant tell HSBC to change those processes. Thats the role of the 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA). We can look at whether anything  has gone 
wrong with the way HSBC applied those processes to Mr Y application but as our 
investigator found, theres nothing to suggest that it didnt apply them  properly.
Mr Y wants  to know the exact  reasons  why there  was such a difference  between the 
indicative rate and the rate HSBC  eventually offered him. But its lending  criteria are 
commercially sensitive  and this Service cant make it give Mr Y any more information than 
its already provided.  
I know Mr Y will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons Ive given I dont think 
HSBC has done  anything wrong.
Ref: DRN23294102my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2329410