K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Callcredit Limited is not providing him with a service it offers and that it 
has given misleading  information about the reason for this.
background
Mr B has been unable to access his online  credit  report. He says that Callcredit said this was 
due to him having insufficient credit history  but he doesnt think this is correct as he has 
previously received credit reports by post which have included  his credit history.
Mr B says that Callcredit have given him different reasons why he is not able to access the 
online report  and he believes he has been  misled.  He wants  the issue  resolved.
Callcredit says that there have been  issues producing the online credit report for Mr B. It 
says that an error was found in the recording of Mr Bs address which  was corrected but the 
issue continued. It believes  the problem may be due to a technical  issue  and says it offered 
to provide a copy  of Mr Bs report by post. It says that it is only required to provide a 
statutory report service  and that he online report is an additional offer.  
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She understood Mr Bs frustration at not being 
able to access his online credit report but said that this was due to technical difficulties at 
Callcredit. She did not think that Callcredit  had misled Mr B or provided him with incorrect  
information and said that the service Mr B was trying to access  was not a statutory obligation 
of Callcredit but an optional  offering. 
Mr B did not accept our investigators view. He said that the issues Callcredit  were  
experiencing meant he was not being  treated fairly  as he was not being provided with 
access to a financial product. He said Callcredit needed a valid reason why he wasnt  
receiving a service that other customers were. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs frustration at not being able to access his report  and the upset caused 
by being told different  reasons for the report not being available. Based on the information  I 
have seen, Mr B registered for the online report but was then told that a file could not be 
found for him. After receiving emails  saying a report could not be issued Mr B asked for this 
to be investigated.  Following this Mr B was told that there was not enough information for the 
report to be generated.  He was then told that there  was some  information missing from his 
address. The address  was amended however  the report was still not available.
While it is disappointing that the report is not available I do not find that I can say Callcredit 
has treated Mr B unfairly.  I say this because  it is not choosing to not provide  the service  to 
Mr B but instead has encountered technical difficulties in doing this. It appears that this is 
linked to the information it is able to retrieve (although limited details have been provided 
about this). However,  it is clear that Callcredit is trying to resolve  the issue  and has said it 
will let Mr B know when it is possible to access his report. It has offered to provide copies of 
his credit report by post.
Ref: DRN21071972I know this is not the resolution Mr B wants but I find that Callcredit have  made a reasonable 
offer of assistance  by proving postal credit reports and by working  to resolve  the ongoing 
issue with the generation  of Mr Bs report.  
In regard to why the report is not available more than one reason has been given. At first it 
was said there was not enough information for the report to be generated. This appears to 
be linked  to a technical issue and based on what I have seen this is the ongoing problem. 
The identification of a missing part of Mr Bs address was also found and it is reasonable 
that this was identified and amended. However as this did not resolve the issue  I accept the 
ongoing problem  relates to the suggested  technical  issue. From what I have seen I do not 
think that Callcredit have  been misleading  Mr B but it has tried to provide information based  
on the issues it has identified.
I do not underestimate the annoyance this has caused Mr B and I note his comments about  
Callcredit being required to ensure its systems can support the provision of its products. 
However, as Callcredit is trying to resolve the issue I do not find it has acted unfairly.
I have considered the impact this has had on Mr B. As Callcredit has offered to provide  
postal copies of Mr Bs credit report to him I find this a reasonable mitigation to any issues 
Mr B may have experienced by not being able to access his information  through  his chosen  
route. 
Overall, while  I can understand  why Mr B is upset by the issues he has experienced I do not 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2107197