K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Miss R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss R has said the sale took place  over the telephone and she was then sent an application 
to complete. Barclays has provided  evidence that shows the sale took place in branch. As 
the sale took place over 20 years ago I can understand why Miss R wont be able to 
remember the exact details. However,  based on the information Ive been provided Im 
satisfied the sale took place in branch and have looked at the case  on that basis. 
The first thing Ive looked  at is whether  Barclays gave Miss R a fair choice about whether or 
not to take out the PPI. Miss R says she was told the credit card application  was more likely 
to be accepted if she bought the PPI. She says she felt pressured. 
Barclays has supplied a copy  of the credit card application form Miss R completed when she 
applied for her credit card and the PPI. Theres a section on the form about the PPI. I note 
the box has been marked to accept the PPI. If Miss R didnt want  the PPI there was also an 
option to decline  it. Miss R has signed  and dated  the application form and I think its likely 
she read the form at the time. Theres nothing on the application form which makes me think 
Barclays told Miss R that she had to have  the policy. Overall,  I think  Barclays  made it clear 
that Miss R didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this now after so long.
Ive thought about what Miss R has said about feeling pressured to take out the PPI. But 
pressure is a subjective area and what one person may think  is pressure another  may not. I 
cant say what was discussed during the meeting when the PPI was sold. And I think its 
possible the sales representative couldve said to Miss R that it was a good  idea to take the 
policy but that isnt the same as saying  she must  have it. So without stronger evidence of 
this I cant fairly uphold the complaint  on this basis. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss R so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
This policy would  cover  10% of the outstanding  balance of Miss Rs account  for up to 12 
months if she was too sick to work  or she lost her job. And this would be in addition to, and 
Ref: DRN22346622potentially for longer  than, any other  pay she would  receive. So I still think  the PPI would  
have been useful.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2234662