K820x#14complaintMr C is unhappy that Nationwide  Building Society  are unable to provide a specific  reason for 
declining his payment to a third party.
background
Nationwide declined a credit card payment Mr C made to a third party in November 2018. 
The third party made Mr C aware  of the decline and he contacted Nationwide for an 
explanation. 
Nationwide advised  that, in line with the terms of the credit agreement,  they were  unable to 
provide a specific reason but gave  a number of potential explanations.
Mr C was unhappy with this and raised a complaint. Nationwide responded with the same 
stance, suggesting  all payments werent  being processed to the specific third party. They  
offered £50 to recognise their failure  to call back Mr C as promised.
Mr C remained  unhappy so he referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. He thought Nationwide  had 
acted reasonably within the terms of their agreement and so recommended no further action 
should be taken.  Nationwide agreed  with this view.
Mr C disagreed. He thought Nationwide had a duty to confirm the reason behind  the decline 
and should make customers aware  of this beforehand on their website. He thought 
Nationwide should  include details  of any third parties they dont process payments for in the 
credit agreement.
As Mr C disagreed, the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Ive first considered whether Nationwide were  reasonable when declining  the transaction.  
Section 5 of the credit agreement  explains clearly  they may refuse  a transaction  for a 
number of reasons.  These reasons were provided  in their response  to Mr Cs complaint.
The credit agreement also explains that the third party would tell Mr C the transaction  has 
been declined  and Mr C could then contact Nationwide to find out why.
So, I think Nationwide had the authority to decline a transaction if they felt there was good 
reason and the responsibility to notify Mr C was the third partys and not theirs. 
Ive then considered  whether Nationwide have provided  a suitable explanation to Mr C about  
why the transaction was declined.
Ref: DRN24213552In Nationwides  final response, they explain they wont provide specific  information  about 
why they decided not to authorise transactions to that third party.  But they do give a range of 
possible reasons,  as stated in the terms and conditions, including  receiving an unacceptable 
number of disputes/fraudulent claims against  this merchant . 
Ive seen Mr C spoke  with the third party  who claimed that Nationwide  had taken the option 
several years ago to decline  payments to businesss such as themselves. 
I think its reasonable to gauge  from this information that the decline was due to the third 
party rather  than Mr C. So, I think Nationwide have acted in line with the terms of the 
agreement. And I think hes been  made  reasonably aware there  were  concerns about the 
third party, sufficient for him to make his own decision about whether he wished to continue 
paying for their product.  
Also, I wouldnt expect Nationwide to provide Mr C with a more specific reason as it may 
contain information thats commercially sensitive. So, I wouldnt expect Nationwide to include 
any of this reasoning  in their terms of agreement or on their website as Mr C has suggested.
For these reasons, I think Nationwide have acted  fairly in declining the payment and theyve 
provided Mr C which  a general explanation that falls in line with their terms and conditions. 
So, I dont think Nationwide need  to take any further action.
Also, I think Nationwides offer of £50 to recognise their failure to call Mr C back is fair and 
doesnt impact on my decision relating to the decline and their explanation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about  Nationwide  Building 
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2421355