K820x#14complaint
Ms L says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms L bought  the policy in 1997  at the same  time as taking  out a store  card.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ls complaint because:
I think FICL made Ms L aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Ms Ls store card application  form. On this 
form 
There was an option to add PPI to the account.  A tick has been  placed next to this 
option and Ms L has signed the overall  form. So I think  this indicates that she wanted  
to take PPI. 
Although Ms L has said that she didnt ask to take the insurance, Ive not seen 
evidence to support  what shes said. Had the PPI been added  without Ms Ls 
agreement, I think  shed have quite reasonably questioned it  much sooner than she 
did when it appeared on her monthly store card statements. But the evidence  is that 
it remained on her account for some  time after it was taken out. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms L so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But FICL did still have to give Ms L good enough information so that she could 
decide if she wanted to take the PPI out. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ms L doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main 
Ref: DRN24602452things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. 
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ls comments, including what shes  said about not needing PPI. 
But the PPI could have paid out for much longer than Ms Ls existing means  for making her 
repayments. So I still think  that she could have found it useful  if she was made unemployed 
or she was unwell and unable  to work  and these points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2460245