K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1998. Mr R says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
Santander was trading  as Abbey National at the time. To keep things simple Ill refer to the 
lender as Santander throughout my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr R says he was told the PPI was compulsory. Santander has said its never  been  a 
requirement to take PPI with a mortgage.  Where theres a disagreement over what  
happened, I have to consider what I think is more  likely to have happened in the 
circumstances. Santander has given me a copy of the mortgage  application from the time of 
the sale, and the PPI policy summary setting out what Mr R selected. But it no longer has a 
copy of the separate PPI application form that it says Mr R wouldve completed.  I dont think 
its unreasonable Santander  no longer has all the documents from the time of the sale 
considering it was over years 20 years ago.
In order for me to agree  with Mr R, Id have to agree its more  likely Santander incorrectly  
told Mr R he had to have  the PPI when he didnt.  While this is possible, I dont think its the 
most likely scenario. Instead,  I think its more likely Santander offered  the PPI as per its 
procedure and Mr R completed a separate PPI application form.  So I think  it wouldve been 
clear this was a separate product to the mortgage.  
On balance, I think its more likely  Santander  made  it clear  that Mr R didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose to take it out. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.
Mr R says he had good sick pay and some savings available to him at the time of the sale. 
But the policy couldve covered him for up to 24 months per claim if he was too ill to work, 
had an accident  or was made redundant. And that wouldve  been  in addition to his sick pay.  
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
Ref: DRN2130078But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr R any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr R any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr R the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay    
Mr R 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2130078