K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Metropolitan International Schools Limited (trading  as Train 4 Jobs) 
used aggressive  selling tactics and misrepresented the financial contract  into which  he was 
entering.
background
Mr K says that he was having difficulty getting the mortgage offer he needed due to his low 
salary. He says that he saw an advert  for Train 4 Jobs which offered further training in his 
field so he submitted his mobile phone number. Mr K says that by the time the 
representative called him, hed spoken to his boss about his financial situation and had 
received a pay rise that enabled  him to receive the required  mortgage offer. Mr K says he 
told the representative he was no longer interested and that he couldnt discuss  it further as 
he was at work. Nevertheless  the representative arranged  to visit him when he was at home 
later that evening.
When the representative called at Mr Ks house,  in November  2015, Mr K says he told her 
he would  call her if he was interested  in the course at a later date. Mr K says the 
representative was at his house for two hours  and eventually persuaded him to allow her to 
register his details on the system. He says she then called back  two days later and told him 
he was eligible for the course and said he may be able to receive funding, but would  need  to 
complete a further form.
Mr K says the representative  called round again five minutes after hed returned  from an 
unsuccessful visit to see his solicitor regarding the house purchase.  He says he was led to 
believe the forms he was completing were  to see if he could get funding  and that he was told 
he would  not need to pay anything if his application was successful. Mr K says it was around 
11pm before the representative  left.
Mr K moved house in December 2015  and, although he noticed  a transaction  in January 
2016 that he didnt recognise,  he only looked into it when it appeared on his statement again  
in February 2016.  Mr K discovered he was paying  £165 per month to a finance company that 
had funded the £7,095 course  fee at Train 4 Jobs. Mr K wants  to cancel the agreement.
Train 4 Jobs responded that its records indicated that all relevant information was left with 
Mr K, including the finance agreement,  and that the terms and conditions  were clear on the 
documentation. It says the finance  agreement was also posted to Mr K and that it reiterated 
his right to cancel. Train  4 Jobs says Mr K had a cooling  off period in which to cancel the 
agreement, but, as that date had now passed, it wasnt possible to cancel it. It added that the 
finance company  had paid the course  fee in full, so Mr K needed to repay the loan.
Mr K says he was called by Train  4 Jobs in March 2018 and was told he could withdraw from 
the course and pay no further instalments. However, Mr K says that, as it didnt offer to 
refund any of the payments already made, he didnt accept this offer. The final response 
from Train 4 Jobs did not reflect this offer.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He empathised with 
Mr Ks situation, but was satisfied the documents showed  the correct  information. Although  
he acknowledges that he cannot be certain what was discussed at the time,  our investigator 
says he hasnt seen  any evidence to suggest the loan or the course  were  misrepresented.
Ref: DRN28293392Mr K responded to say, in summary, that he did not need further training before he could 
obtain a mortgage offer and had already  secured such an offer before he signed the Train 4 
Jobs agreement.  He says he was told by a third party that he had 90 days in which to cancel 
the agreement  as he hadnt  used  the service.   He re-emphasised that hed been mis-sold the 
course, and the loan agreement that funded it, due to aggressive selling tactics  late at night.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Train 4 Jobs and to Mr K on 16 October 2019. I summarise  
my findings  here:
Train 4 Jobs had made Mr K an offer to cancel the agreement,  with no further 
payments, in March  2018. As Mr K did not accept it, Train  4 Jobs did not provide that 
information in its submission.  But it subsequently  offered  to cancel the agreement  
from October 2018 instead;
I was satisfied that Mr K signed the paperwork and the written  information was clear;
But I was not persuaded  that the loan agreement was properly represented  and 
explained because:
oI considered it was unlikely Mr K would have wanted to enter into a financial 
agreement to boost  his career since he had already  received the mortgage  
offer he needed;
oI had no reason to doubt Mr K when he said he felt pressurised by the 
representative as she was in his home for long hours, often late into the night;
oI was satisfied that Mr K no longer intended to take the training in the short-
term, but was persuaded to sign the paperwork on the basis  he didnt need to 
start the training immediately and would  not be charged when he did so as he 
thought the documents were  an application  for funding;
On the balance of probabilities, I considered it more likely  than not, that it wasnt 
made clear to Mr K that he was signing a loan agreement  which  was repayable 
immediately;
I accepted that Mr K said he didnt have time to review the documentation as he was 
moving house at the time;
I was satisfied that Mr Ks communication with Train 4 Jobs  was entirely  consistent 
with someone who did not know he had signed  a loan agreement;
I didnt  consider  the Train 4 Jobs offer to cancel the agreement  from October  2018 
was fair and reasonable, given its original  offer and the above  reasoning.
So I considered it more  likely than not that the loan agreement  was misrepresented  to Mr K 
and, therefore my provisional decision was that the agreement should  be settled by Train 4 
Jobs and all the payments  refunded to Mr K.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision.
Train 4 Jobs responded to say, in summary:
Mr K signed the loan agreement, the client compliance confirmation  form (indicating 
he understood the details of the agreement), a direct debit mandate and a 
declaration to confirm a copy of the loan agreement  had been left with him. The 
finance provider  also confirmed that a copy of the signed loan agreement, and details 
of the direct debit  repayments, were both sent to Mr K on 4 December  2015;
The loan agreement clearly sets out the nature of the agreement and Mr Ks 
cancellation rights;
Ref: DRN28293393So Train 4 Jobs says it believes it was made entirely clear  to Mr K that the agreement was a 
fixed sum loan and that it was Mr Ks responsibility to ensure he fully understood what  he 
was signing. It adds  that it would have been reasonable to expect Mr K to contact it as soon 
as he received the signed loan agreement from the finance provider, but, in fact, the first 
request for cancellation wasnt received  until 22 January 2016. As this was outside the 
cooling-off period,  Train  4 Jobs says it cannot accept responsibility for this.
With regards to the visit of the sales representative,  Train 4 Jobs says Mr K confirmed on a 
call that he was happy to go ahead with a 6pm appointment on 23 November 2019. It says 
the visit was marked as complete at 10.25pm,  but does not consider that to be late into the 
night.
Train 4 Jobs also says that, with regard to all the evidence it has about Mr Ks work 
experience and qualifications, it does not believe he would have any difficulty understanding  
the terms and conditions of the contract.
Finally Train 4 Jobs adds  that, although it acknowledges Mr K did indeed receive a pay rise 
that assisted him in securing a mortgage,  his salary would have been  further enhanced by 
completing the course. So, it says, it believes  that this demonstrates Mr K was very much 
looking to progress his career.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regards to the signed  paperwork,  Ive already said that I was satisfied  the paperwork 
was signed by Mr K and the written information was clear. But Train  4 Jobs also had an 
obligation to explain  the nature of the financial product and I wasnt persuaded that was the 
case for all the reasons  cited above.  I acknowledge Train 4 Jobs says it believes it was 
made clear to Mr K that the agreement was a fixed sum loan,  but I cant  see its provided any 
further persuasive evidence that that was the case.
I accept Mr K made his first request to cancel the agreement outside the cooling-off period, 
but I find that to be entirely consistent with someone  who did not know  hed entered into a 
loan agreement. Indeed,  Mr K only pursued  the request for cancellation  when he realised 
money was leaving  his account. Given Mr K says he was told the paperwork was to apply for 
funding and hed only need to start paying once  he started the course,  and he had not 
started the course,  I can understand why Mr K would have no reason to contact  Train  4 Jobs  
any earlier. I find, therefore, that Mr Ks behaviour was in line with what  he said hed been  
told by the representative.
Although Train 4 Jobs suggests that an appointment that finishes at 10.25pm  is not late into 
the night, I can understand why Mr K would have felt pressurised to complete the meeting  
at that time.
I accept what Train  4 Jobs says about  Mr Ks understanding of the terms and conditions, but 
Mr K never claimed that to be an issue. Rather,  he said that what he was told by the 
representative was not reflected in the paperwork.
Ref: DRN28293394Finally, I dont doubt that Mr Ks salary may have been enhanced by pursuing the course, 
but given Mr K had already achieved his primary objective by securing the mortgage offer,  
Im not persuaded he would have signed up to an additional monthly payment for the next 
3.5 years  had the agreement been  made clear to him. 
So, although  I acknowledge  all the additional points made by Train 4 Jobs,  I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Metropolitan International Schools Limited 
(trading as Train  4 Jobs) should:
Pay off the loan in full on behalf of Mr K;
Refund all payments from the beginning of the agreement, plus interest of 8% simple 
a year on all refunds with the interest to run from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
Pay Mr K an extra  £300  for the distress and inconvenience this has caused to him.
Train 4 Jobs must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mr K 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the £300 from 
the date of the final decision  until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple  per year.
If Train 4 Jobs considers  it is legally  required  to deduct income tax from that interest,  it must  
send a tax deduction certificate with the payment  so that Mr K can reclaim the tax if he is 
able to.
Mr K should  refer back to Train 4 Jobs if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact  HM Revenue & Customs  if they want  to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2829339