K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr W bought the policy  in 1994 over the phone sometime after taking out a store card.  He 
says this was when he made his first repayment.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt planning to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W replied to say he was unhappy  with my provisional decision. He felt it was based  on 
assumptions due to a lack of evidence, said he was given the hard sell on the phone  having 
declined the PPI in store, and had 11 other  PPI complaints upheld in his favour. 
Santander had nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint because:
Mr W already  had the credit card and had used it before he agreed to take the PPI. So I 
think he wouldve been aware that he didnt  have to have  the PPI.
FICL  is unable to provide sales scripts  from the time of sale, but thats understandable 
given how long ago it was. And from what  Mr W has said about the sale it appears he 
was given the option of whether  or not to take the PPI and that he chose to take it.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for him 
by considering his personal circumstances at the time of sale.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr W was eligible for the policy  and doesnt  appear  to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  Based on what I know about 
his circumstances  it looks like the policy couldve  been  useful  to him if he was unable to 
work, although I appreciate he now doesnt think he needed it.
While  Mr W had some sick pay through his work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this 
for up to 12 months. And it also covered him if hed been made unemployed. This is 
likely to have been useful given hed only recently started his job, so he wouldnt have 
had much if any redundancy  pay available to him. So I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped  him buying it.
Being  on probation  in his job wouldnt have prevented Mr W from making a claim,  since  
there had been no gap in his employment  since 1990.
Ref: DRN24879792The other insurance policy Mr W describes  would have covered his mortgage 
repayments if hed been unable to work.  It wouldnt have covered his store  card 
repayments. And Mr W wouldve  been  aware of having that cover when he agreed  to 
take the PPI on his store  card.  This suggests  that despite having  that other cover 
available he still wanted this PPI.
Ive taken into account Mr Ws comments. But these points dont change  my conclusion.  
There is limited  evidence  available  (which includes Mr Ws testimony)   and my decision is 
based upon that evidence. I appreciate  Mr W is unhappy with the outcome Ive reached and 
feels he was given  the hard sell during the phone call. But I dont feel I can uphold his 
complaint based  solely  on his recollection of events that occurred over 20 years ago. Overall 
I dont think the evidence justifies me concluding that this particular PPI policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2487979