K820x#14Complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  didnt respond to his 
correspondence.
Background
Mr H lives abroad. He has a hearing  impairment  which means he cant use a phone without 
additional equipment. He can make  calls, but he cant  receive  them. He doesnt  use online 
banking. He is dependent on monthly  paper statements for information on his account 
balance. 
In October  2017, Mr H noticed hed stopped receiving  his paper statements. Around the 
same time, he received a letter from Halifax telling him that it was changing the way it 
calculated overdraft charges from monthly to daily charges. He wanted  to know  the balance  
on his account  and how it would be affected by the change.
Mr H sent Halifax an email on 29 October  2017,  but he didnt receive a reply. He sent a 
chasing email on 16 November 2017 and he submitted an online complaint on 8 December 
2017.
By January 2018, he still hadnt  received a response, so he called Halifax using  special 
equipment to help with the call. During the call, he also asked about activating  his debit card 
abroad. He said Halifax  only gave him instructions for activating the card in UK. Halifax 
agreed to freeze any overdraft charges  until 30 April 2018, while it investigated his 
complaint. It also sent him the statements  he hadnt received.
He heard nothing  further. There was ongoing  correspondence between February 2018 and 
May 2018 where Mr H tried to find out who was dealing with his complaint and what 
progress had been made. 
Eventually, Halifax sent a final response letter dated  15 May 2018.  
With regards to the bank statements, it said it had been sending bank statements to his 
overseas address and couldnt  be held responsible  for post once it had been despatched.
As for the debit card, Halifax explained that, as a UK bank, its debit card had to be activated  
in the UK. It couldnt be activated  abroad.
It didnt uphold these  two complaints.
However, it accepted  it had let him down  by not responding to his correspondence,  losing his 
online complaint  form and providing  him with a poor service overall. It offered him £250.00 
by way of an apology and agreed to reimburse him for any call expenses  hed incurred.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome. He said Halifax hadnt understood his complaint and 
the final response letter didnt respond to all his concerns. He also thought £250 was an 
inadequate sum, which didnt reflect the trouble  and upset hed experienced.
An investigator looked into his complaint but decided not to uphold  it. He thought Halifax had 
provided a satisfactory  response to Mr Hs complaints about the statements and debit  card. 
He agreed that Mr H had received a poor service but considered that £250  was a fair and 
reasonable offer.
Ref: DRN22682322Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid Ive reached 
the same  conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive read Mr Hs detailed  replies to the investigators view.  Mostly, he is unhappy with 
Halifaxs failure to respond to his correspondence, which  he says has been an ongoing  
problem since 2015 (and a reason for two other complaints to this service). He is 
disappointed that the investigator hasnt gone into detail  about the poor service,  even  though 
its the reason  why he came to this service.
However, as the investigator explained, complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered 
activity. And the High Court has confirmed that a complaint about  complaint  handling  is not a 
complaint about  a financial service,  so falls outside of our jurisdiction, (R (Mazarona  
Properties Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service 2017).  
To clarify, the FCA Handbook defines a complaint as, any oral or written expression  of 
dissatisfaction, whether  justified or not, from, or on behalf of, a person about  the provision of, 
or failure  to provide,  a financial service,  claims management service or a redress  
determination, which alleges  that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer)  financial loss, 
material distress  or material inconvenience.
All the above  means I can only consider a complaint about  poor service  if it is ancillary  to a 
regulated activity. In this case, Mr Hs original complaint was about  not receiving bank 
statements. The banks failure to respond to his complaint exacerbated this problem 
because clearly it persisted. Im satisfied the poor service was ancillary  to a regulated 
activity. But this also means the investigator  was right to prioritise and address Mr Hs 
complaints about  the bank statements, the debit  card and the overdraft  charges.  We cant  
look at the poor service  complaint on its own.
However, as Mr Hs main concern is with the service he received, then I will address that 
first. Mr H is unhappy  that the view didnt  go into any details about the poor service hed 
received. Its true there isnt a blow by blow account  of each failure or breach of the FCA 
Handbook. But there was no need to do this. This service isnt a regulatory body. We are an 
informal alternative dispute resolution  service. If the bank has accepted  responsibility  for 
poor service, then there  is no need  for us to recite  each  breach of the rules. 
My task is simply  to decide:
how has the poor service affected Mr H?
Is £250 a fair and reasonable  sum for his trouble and upset?
When Halifax didnt respond to Mr Hs emails, he was compelled  to call the bank at great 
inconvenience to himself. It wasnt easy for him to pick up the phone  and call Halifax.  He had 
to use additional  equipment. However, as soon  as Halifax became aware of his problem, in 
February 2018, it sent him the missing bank statements.
Ref: DRN22682323Ive no doubt this has been  a frustrating and time-consuming experience,  but I think the offer 
to pay £250 and to reimburse his telephone call expenses is a fair and reasonable one.
Ive also considered Mr Hs complaint about  disability discrimination. In summary, he initially 
said he couldnt submit  the online complaint form because he didnt provide a telephone 
number. He didnt  provide  a number because he doesnt make calls due to his hearing 
impairment. However, it appears  that the form was submitted and received  because he 
received an email about incorrect  information. The discrimination  complaint wasnt  pursued, 
and I understand  Halifax  has provided him with email addresses. However, if Mr H still 
requires a reasonable adjustment  then he should  discuss this with Halifax.
Bank statements and debit card
Ive seen a list of the statements and when they were issued. Ive also seen the statements, 
which show Mr Hs overseas address. Based on this information, Im satisfied the statements  
were posted  to his address when they were issued, which was at the beginning of each  
month. Some of the statements dont  show  the country but thats true for the statements he 
said he did receive so this might be down  to the way they are shown internally. He did 
receive other  correspondence,  so Halifax had his full address. Theres  no good  reason why 
Halifax wouldnt post the statements. I agree that Halifax  cant be held responsible for post 
after despatch. 
Again, I dont think theres anything more Halifax can do about  the debit card. Its systems 
require the card to be activated in the UK. As the investigator explained,  its a UK based 
bank with UK products. I cant ask it to change or alter its services.
overdraft charges
Mr H understood that Halifax wouldnt add any overdraft charges between  October  2017  and 
30 April 2018. However, Halifax did add charges to his account.  He thinks  this is unfair 
because he didnt know the balance on his account  and couldnt take steps  to avoid or 
minimise charges.
However, the banks  notes show  that it only agreed to a freeze from 9 February 2018 until 30 
April 2018 whilst it investigate his complaint. It didnt agree to exempt  him from any charges 
or to refund them. Also, he did get his statements in February 2018 so he knew the position  
then and could  have taken steps to clear any overdraft.
Lastly, the investigator looked into the switch from monthly to daily charges. He explained  
there was a temporary overlap  when monthly and daily fees were shown on the statement  
for 7 November 2017, but this didnt  result in any loss and all charges were  correctly applied.  
Ive checked the statements and Im satisfied that the correct  charges have been applied  
and that there hasnt  been any duplication.
For these reasons, Im afraid I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaints. It remains  open to 
Mr H to accept  the offer of £250 from Bank of Scotland plc for its poor service and the offer 
to reimburse his telephone expenses.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr H, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
Ref: DRN22682324My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2268232