K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Skipton Building  Society gave him incorrect  information about how he
could withdraw funds from his Lifetime  ISA ('LISA'),  which meant he missed  out on the
bonus paid by the government.
background
Mr N held a LISA with Skipton, which he'd transferred in from another provider.
The 12-month anniversary of holding the LISA was 11 April 2018. LISA'S  had to be held for
12 months in order to obtain  a 25% bonus from the government.
On 5 February 2018, Mr N contacted Skipton and had a webchat. Mr N said he was aware
from the Skipton  website  that withdrawals could  take up to 30 days. He and his wife wanted
to complete their house purchase  on 19 April,  and he wanted to find out if he could start the
30-day period before 11 April so that the funds would  be available  in time for completion,
and he and his wife would still receive  the bonus.  He said he clarified with the Skipton
representative that the LISA funds could be requested mid-March with a note that the funds
weren't to be released until after 11 April, and that the bonus  would  be paid. Mr N says that
based on this he and his wife agreed  a completion date with the builder of 19 April.
On 22 March 2018, Mr N was told by Skipton that the information he'd previously been given
was incorrect, and the funds couldn't be requested until after 11 April. This was contrary  to
what he'd been  told during the webchat.  After a further phone call that same  day, Mr N
decided to withdraw his LISA funds. This was necessary to avoid a withdrawal charge of
25% on the whole  balance  of the account.  This was a standard penalty applied  to LISA'S by
the government, designed  to claw back the bonus if the account wasn't used in accordance
with government rules.
Mr N complained to Skipton about being given incorrect  information and missing out on the
bonus. Skipton  upheld  his complaint, as it accepted it had given incorrect information.  But it
didn't think  it could accept responsibility  for the loss of the bonus. This was because the key
facts for the LISA had a clause saying that there was a 12-month period  before any funds
could be withdrawn. It offered £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr N brought his complaint to us. He said that the incorrect information he'd been  given by
Skipton had led he and his wife to push for an earlier than planned completion date as they
believed they could still obtain  the LISA bonus. If they'd been given the correct information
they would've waited until 19 May to complete on their house  purchase. He wanted  Skipton
to compensate him for the bonus  he'd lost as a direct consequence of its incorrect  advice.
Our investigator didn't think Skipton needed to do anything more  than what  it had offered. He
thought that whilst Skipton caused some  confusion in February 2018, Mr N had withdrawn
the funds in March 2018  after being  given the correct advice. He appreciated Mr N's strong
feelings that the advice  had led to an earlier completion date. But ultimately the decision to
withdraw the funds  was his. And he did this after receiving  the correct  advice.
On 14 May 2019, I issued  a provisional decision. My provisional findings were  as follows:
Ref: DRN23469572I can see that Mr N feels  very strongly that the reason he didn't receive the government  
bonus on his LISA was the incorrect advice given by Skipton. That's  understandable. But I'm 
afraid I'm going to have  to disappoint  him, as I'm not going to ask Skipton to do anything 
further.
The essence  of Mr N's complaint is that he relied on the advice given by Skipton  in February
2018 in agreeing a mid-April  2018 completion  date for his house purchase. He says by the
time he was told he couldn't request the funds and start the 30-day period until after 11 April
it wasn't possible for him to change his completion  date. As he needed the LISA  funds for
the deposit, and he didn't wish to incur a 25% withdrawal charge, he had no choice but to
withdraw the LISA funds when he did, thereby missing out on the bonus.
I would've been inclined to agree with Mr N, if the evidence had supported his argument.
This is because if he had indeed relied on the webchat to fix the completion date as 19 April
when it could've  been  in May, Skipton  would be responsible for any financial detriment to Mr
N caused by the incorrect  information. But I'm afraid  the evidence  doesn't support his
argument.
I've looked  very carefully at the transcript of the webchat Mr N had with Skipton on 5
February. Mr N asked:
I currently have a LISA with yourselves and am in the process of completing a house
purchase mid-end  April 2018. Are you able to advise when  we should be getting our
conveyancer to contact  yourselves for the funds,  whilst ensuring we still receive the 
bonus?
During the webchat his LISA withdrawal  date was confirmed as being 11 April 2018 (this was
a year after he had opened the ISA with his previous provider). He said that if he waited until
that date to ask his conveyancer to request  the funds it could take another  30 days. Then  Mr
N said:
So should  I ask them to request the funds before this, but ask you not to release 
them until after 11th?
Skipton said:
Yes you can do that.
Mr N then said:
OK, great, so if I ask them to start the process early-mid March  and ask for the funds 
on 12 April everything should  be OK for the bonus?
Skipton then confirmed  that HMRC would pay the bonus within  28 days from 6 April.
I've listened  to Mr N's call with Skipton on 23 March. Mr N was told that Skipton had to wait
until 11 April to actually receive the request from Mr N's conveyancers and then the LISA
payment could take up to 30 days after that date. Mr N stressed that he'd planned his house
purchase to ensure he got the bonus but that if Skipton  was sticking  to the 30 days he'd
need to withdraw  the money before the 5th April to get it penalty free, as he couldn't push his
completion date to mid-May.
Ref: DRN23469573I've no doubt Mr N was given incorrect  information in the webchat of 5 February. But I'm 
afraid on the evidence I've seen I'm not satisfied that this caused Mr N to miss out on the
bonus. Mr N's complaint  was that based  on the incorrect  information  he and his wife had
pushed for an earlier  completion date than otherwise possible, and then couldn't change  it
when the information turned out to be incorrect. But the evidence  supplied by Mr N's builders
doesn't support this. The builders say that the original completion date was the end of
March. It agreed the 19th April at Mr and Mrs N's request. It also said it would've been  happy
as long as completion  was by the last Friday in April. So after the webchat the completion
date was pushed  back, not brought forward. And there's no evidence  that completion  in May
was ever a possibility. Without  such evidence, there's  nothing to show it was the incorrect
information from Skipton  that meant  Mr N missed  out on the bonus.
Mr N has also provided an email from his conveyancers  dated 22 March  2018. In that email
the conveyancers refer to the need for a clearer completion date. So again I can't be
satisfied that a completion date was agreed  in reliance on the webchat. I've also seen  no
evidence that the conveyancers contacted Skipton in early to mid-March as Mr N had been
told the conveyancers needed to. We asked Mr N about this, and it looks  like the
conveyancers didn't  do so until 22 March 2018 - which was later than 30 days before the
completion date Mr N said had been  agreed  with the builders and later than Mr N had
confirmed that his conveyancers would do so by.
There could well be other reasons why Mr N might  not have qualified for the bonus, as there
are a number of other requirements such as the value of the house  purchase and being a
first time buyer. But I haven't  asked for evidence about these points as I didn't need to in
order to decide  the complaint.
As I've said, there's  no doubt that Mr N was given incorrect information during the webchat
in early February. Skipton have acknowledged  this, and offered Mr N £100 for his
inconvenience. I think this is fair so 1 don't propose  to ask it to do anything further, although I
understand Mr N will be disappointed.
My provisional decision was that Skipton  should  pay Mr N £100 compensation, if it hadnt 
already done so. 
Skipton responded to my provisional decision saying it had nothing  further  to add. Mr N 
responded in detail,  providing documents. Ill set out what  he said in my findings below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think my provisional 
decision is the right one, although I appreciate this will disappoint  Mr N, and Im sorry for 
that. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr N provided evidence  showing the estimated 
completion date for the property was May 2019.  He provided a copy of the reservation  
agreement with the builders which showed that month. He said that it was after the webchat 
with Skipton that he and his wife told the builders that theyd be able to complete in April if 
they were able to bring the build  forward. He said if hed been given the correct information  
during the webchat he and his wife wouldve  left the completion date in May.
Ref: DRN23469574Im afraid I still dont think the evidence supports this. I set out in my provisional findings an 
extract from the webchat Mr N had with Skipton on 5 February in which Mr N said that he 
was in the process of completing a house  purchase  mid-end  April 2018. This shows that it 
was anticipated  that the house sale was due to complete in April,  and not May,  prior to the 
webchat. I dont  think I can reasonably  conclude from the evidence that the house 
completion was brought forward from May to April on the basis  of the webchat, as Mr N asks 
me to. 
I understand that the initial anticipated  completion date given by the builder in the 
reservation agreement  was May 2019.  But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that this was in any 
way binding on the builder, or that Mr N and his wife could ever have  insisted on completing 
in May. Indeed,  as Mr N also says, the nature of the contract he and his wife had with the 
builder allowed for the builder to serve a notice  to complete to establish  the legally binding  
completion date.
Mr N says the date of 19 April was agreed with the builder,  but theres nothing to suggest 
that the completion date had to be by agreement.  And theres no evidence  to show that the 
builder wouldve ever agreed to a date in May. The email  provided from the builder indicates  
that it wouldnt have  agreed to completion  past the end of April 2018.
For all of these reasons, I cant be satisfied that the incorrect  information  given by Skipton in 
the webchat deprived Mr N of the opportunity to obtain the government bonus  on his LISA. 
This would only have been the case if a completion  date in April, and not May, had been 
agreed in reliance on the webchat and as Ive indicated above; my view is that the evidence 
doesnt support  that. So I wont be asking Skipton to pay Mr N anything  more  than the £100  
compensation in relation to the incorrect advice, if it hasnt already been paid. I know this will 
disappoint Mr N, and Im sorry for that. 
I thank Mr N for the further comments provided about the 30-day notice, his solicitors  
dealings with Skipton,  and his eligibility for the bonus, but there  is no need for me to consider 
those issues, as they make no difference to the outcome on their own,  given my findings 
about the completion date and the webchat. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that Skipton Building  Society should pay Mr N £100 compensation, if it 
hadnt already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2346957