K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading  as Cashfloat) gave her loans that she 
couldnt afford.
background
Mrs M took out a total of five loans with Cashfloat  between January 2017 and March 2018.  A 
summary of Mrs Ms borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Date repaid
Number of 
repayments
1 17.01.17 £250 22.03.17 2
2 02.06.17 £200 15.07.17 2
3 17.07.17 £400 4.10.17 3
4 22.10.17 £250 24.01.18 2
5 03.03.18 £250 16.05.18 2
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  he 
thought that the checks Cashfloat did before making the first two loans went  far enough.  But 
he didnt think it had carried  out adequate checks before making the other loans. And he 
thought that proportionate checks when Mrs M applied for loans 3 ,4 and 5 would have 
shown that she wasnt borrowing  sustainably. So he recommended  that Cashfloat refund all 
interest and charges that Mrs M paid on loans 3 , 4 and 5, with interest on the refund. And 
he said it should remove all entries  about those loans from Mrs Ms credit file.
Cashfloat didnt  reply to the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN25938942the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mrs M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Cashfloat should  have  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ms case,  I think  this point was reached by loan 3. 
I say this because:
Loan 3 was Mrs Ms third loan from Cashfloat in seven months. She asked  to borrow  
£400 which was over twice the amount of the previous loan just two days after paying it 
off. And I think this should have put Cashfloat on notice that it was likely that Mrs M was 
having problems  managing her money. So I think it should have been concerned that 
she wouldnt be able to repay  the loan sustainably.
Mrs M applied for loan 4 within a few weeks after repaying loan 3. And although the 
amount she applied to borrow  decreased Mrs M continued to borrow  from Cashfloat 
without any significant break.
I think that Mrs M lost out because Cashfloat  continued to provide borrowing from loan three  
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ms indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN25938943the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mrs M had been borrowing 
from Cashfloat, was likely  to have had negative implications on Mrs Ms ability to access  
mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 ,4 and 5. Cashfloat  should put things  right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
Cashfloat should:
refund  all interest and charges Mrs M paid on loans  3, 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans Mrs M had taken with Cashfloat and the total length of time shed 
been borrowing  from it means any information recorded about loans 3 , 4 and 5 is 
adverse. So all entries about  these loans  should be removed from Mrs Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Western Circle Ltd (trading  as 
Cashfloat) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2593894