K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasnt been helpful following an 
accident. He isnt able to work full-time and its affected his financial circumstances.
background
Mr T was injured  in a serious accident  at the end of 2017. He was unable to work for a year. 
And he hasnt been able to return to the same level of employment.  Mr T had a loan costing 
£390 a month.  But he struggled  with the payments.  RBS offered a top-up loan but it costs  
even more. 
Mr T said he never had a problem making his loan payments  before. And hes sent RBS 
evidence about  the accident.  But the bank doesnt want to know.  RBS said it was going to 
put a default on his account and blacklist him for six years. But Mr T just wants an affordable 
repayment plan until he gets the settlement from his accident. 
RBS apologised  if Mr T felt it wasnt trying to help him. The bank said Mr T had got in touch 
to explain his situation. He was waiting  for a settlement figure so he could pay off the 
outstanding debt on his personal loan and overdraft. In February 2018 it agreed to accept £1 
per month towards his two accounts  for a period of three months. Itd held back  from further 
recovery action as Mr T said he didnt want to enter into a debt management plan. And itd 
spoken to him on numerous occasions to try and help find a solution.
RBS said itd discussed a refinancing loan with Mr T in March 2019 but he didnt meet the 
affordability criteria. When it had been  able to offer a loan the following month Mr T hadnt  
responded. But if he wished to take that forward  he could contact the banks collections 
centre. If Mr T chose the default process  it would stop any more interest or charges being 
applied. But a default would be recorded  on his credit file. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied  with RBSs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. He could see RBS had arranged a short-term plan of £1 each month  
following Mr Ts accident. He looked  at the various conversations between RBS and Mr T 
where his income  and expenditure  had been assessed to see what  could be done. And he 
felt RBS had tried to help Mr T and stop his account being defaulted. But he felt there was 
only so long the bank could put Mr Ts debt on hold.
Although the missed  loan payments would show on Mr Ts credit file RBS hadnt placed  a 
default on Mr Ts accounts. He could  see RBS had offered a refinancing loan for £21450  to 
clear the outstanding loan and overdraft. And he felt that was a fair response.  
Mr T didnt  agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This must be a very difficult situation for Mr T. He was involved in a serious accident. And 
hes waiting for a settlement to deal with his financial arrears. But he doesnt  think RBS has 
been sympathetic  to his situation.  So Ive looked  very carefully  at whats happened  and 
whether RBS has done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN25785062Following the accident  Mr T was unable to work. And hes only recently returned to limited 
employment. So hes fallen behind on his loan payments. And hes concerned  about  the 
interest accumulating on his loan while hes unable to reduce it. I can see Mr T is also using 
the overdraft facility on his current account.
When RBS became aware  of Mr Ts financial difficulties I would expect it to respond 
positively and sympathetically. And I can see it agreed to accept payments of just £1 per 
month for a three-month period following the accident. Mr T then spoke to RBS on a number 
of occasions during  2018. He was still off work  and waiting for a settlement following the 
accident. RBS suggested  Mr T speak  to a debt charity to get independent  advice. And it put 
a hold on any further action for thirty  days. 
I realise Mr T didnt want to enter a debt management plan. He expected the settlement 
would cover all of his outstanding  debts.  And he didnt want  a default registering on his credit  
file while  he was waiting  to sort things out.
I do sympathise with the problems Mr T has faced. But I think RBS has tried to help Mr T as 
much as it can. I can see RBS went through his income and expenditure a number of times  
to see what it could  do to help. But there  is only so long it can allow  the current situation  to 
continue.
In April 2019 it offered  a refinancing loan of £21450 to clear  Mr Ts existing loan and 
overdraft. And it felt the monthly payments of just over £400  were affordable based on the 
information Mr T had provided. I appreciate Mr T is facing a much larger loan than he 
originally borrowed.  And he doesnt  want to pay the extra interest the loan includes.
But I think RBSs offer is a reasonable response  in the circumstances. The bank has an 
obligation to report  the missed payments  on Mr Ts loan to the credit agencies. But RBS 
hasnt defaulted  his accounts.  And its tried to help him get through  this difficult period while  
awaits the settlement  from his accident.
Mr T has clearly been through a very difficult time. And the injuries  he suffered in the 
accident have  severely  affected his financial situation. But I do think  RBS has tried to help 
Mr T find an affordable solution  to his problems. And its not placed  the accounts  in default 
even though Mr T hasnt  been able to catch up on his arrears.
I realise Mr T will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant really say RBS has done 
anything wrong. I hope he is able to talk to the banks collections  department  and agree a 
suitable arrangement while he waits for his accident settlement. But I wont be asking the 
bank to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Ref: DRN25785063Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2578506