K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Intelligent  Finance) mis-sold 
Mr and Mrs H payment  protection  insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr H says I have  no recollection of every  being  approach by anyone  at Intelligent  Finance 
regarding a PPI policy.
I think Mr and Mrs H are, in effect,  saying  the PPI may have been  added without their 
knowledge or consent. However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude  this happened  unless 
there was reasonable supporting evidence. Where someone has said another  person or 
organisation has done something wrong,  fairness  requires that the person making the 
allegation should present  evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone  to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such  a long time 
ago  the PPI started about  14 years  ago. 
Also, I have seen a copy of a demands and needs statement in which  the PPI was 
recommended to Mr and Mrs H  although  I cant  be sure they saw this. There is also a form 
entitled Confirmation  of application  details which lists the mortgage  being applied for and 
also, reasonably  clearly, the PPI  Mr and Mrs H signed this form. But, as the PPI is 
mentioned on the second page  of the seven page  document, I accept its possible they didnt 
notice this reference. Though I think its unlikely the Bank of Scotland would have  included  
these references  to the PPI if they didnt  believe  Mr and Mrs H had requested it.
I can also see there are copies of two letters addressed to Mr and Mrs H in October 2006. 
These were  from the insurer  saying  theyd learnt  that the direct  debit  for the PPI had been 
cancelled. So this does  suggest that Mr and Mrs H were aware  of the PPI at the time, even if 
they now dont  remember it. 
But overall, as Ive said, I would need  stronger evidence before I could decide fairly that the 
PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Hs knowledge or consent. 
Assuming Mr and Mrs H did agree to the PPI, Ive looked to see whether there  are other  
reasons the PPI might have been  mis-sold   but having done so, I dont think  they apply. I 
will explain.  
Ref: DRN21775702Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs Hs particular circumstances. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage  can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would  have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Hs situation at the time:
Its likely  Mr H (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr H received  any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have  put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs H would  need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have 
had for paying  the mortgage  and other  living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs H in a more  secure position, if theyd eventually  lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation would have 
been suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs H took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation  
changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2177570