K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as Moneyboat irresponsibly lent to 
him.
background
This complaint is about 5 loans Moneyboat provided  to Mr C between May 2016 and April 
2017. A summary  of Mr Cs borrowing history is set out on the table below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 19/05/2016 30/06/2016 2 £200.00 £118.70
2 13/07/2016 04/08/2016 2 £200.00 £122.71
3 09/08/2016 31/10/2016 3 £350.00 £161.20
4 05/12/2016 31/03/2017 4 £500.00 £188.80
5 03/04/2017 31/07/2017 6 £850.00 £258.41
Each of the loans  was repayable over different time periods set out in the table  and in a 
couple of cases  Mr C repaid his loans earlier than scheduled.
Mr C says when he took out these loans,  he had outstanding payday loans with other  
lenders. He took out the loans to pay for household  expenses and other debt and bill 
repayments and he says he had to defer repayment by taking out a new loan to repay the 
previous loan. Hes told us that as a result of these short-term loans his personal 
circumstances and his health has deteriorated,  and he says he doesnt think Moneyboat  
carried out sufficient  checks  or lent responsibly.
In its final response,  Moneyboat told Mr C that it didnt uphold his complaint.  It said when 
assessing each  individual  application,  it had performed  credit  checks  and the result satisfied 
it that Mr C would be able to sustainably meet the repayments due on the loans requested. It 
also said that it had previously declined applications  made by Mr C which further supported  
that it did reasonable affordability checks and that the fact that Mr C had repaid the second 
and last loan earlier than the final repayment date set out in the loan agreement wasnt  
indicative of someone  who found  the loan repayments to be unaffordable.
As a gesture  of goodwill however, it offered to reimburse Mr C the sum of £572.79 in full and 
final settlement of his complaint.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint and thought  the all the loans from 1-5 shouldnt  
have been given to Mr C. She explained  that Mr C was in an Individual  Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) at the time loan 1 was taken.  Therefore, it was unlikely Mr C would have 
been able to sustainably meet his loan repayments for this and any subsequent loans. She 
also concluded by saying that by loan 5 Mr Cs overall pattern of borrowing suggested hed 
become persistently reliant on short term loans.
Moneyboat disagreed with this view. It said when  it provided loan 1 it was early in the 
relationship and it would have been  unrealistic to review every line of credit. It asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
Ref: DRN26661292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish  
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  Having done  this, Ive decided  to 
uphold this complaint for all the loans 1-5. I will explain why.
Ref: DRN26661293Moneyboat has told us it carried out various checks when it started its lending relationship 
with Mr C and gave  him loan 1. It has provided copies of the checks  it carried  out. Ive 
looked through these checks carefully. The first credit  check which is dated on the same 
date as loan 1 was given  shows  that Mr C was in an IVA. Following on from this, the credit 
checks carried out for each of the subsequent loans 2-4 also revealed an IVA was in place. 
So I think that Moneyboat through its own checks should have been alerted to the fact that 
Mr C was having problems managing  his money and he was more likely having to borrow  
each subsequent loan to cover the hole repaying  his other debts  had left in his finances.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Moneyboats lending history  with Mr C, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Moneyboat should reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Moneyboat should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point Moneyboat ought  to have realised Mr C was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr C had taken  out 5 loans  in just under  11 months. And save for 
some small gaps  between borrowing each loan and around  a month gap between  
Mr C paying loan 3 and taking out loan 4, Mr C had been indebted  to Moneyboat  for 
nearly all that time. So Moneyboat  ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mr C was having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Cs first loan was for £200.00  and loan 5 was for £850.00. And it had been 
increasing in amount  each time he had taken out his previous loans. So, Mr Cs 
borrowing had increased substantially. At this point Moneyboat ought to have known 
that Mr C was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in his income but to 
meet an ongoing  need.
Loan 5 was taken out only 3 days after he had paid back loan 4. And although 
Moneyboat has said Mr C repaid  some  of his loans earlier  than hed agreed this does 
not mean it was being repaid from sustainable sources. 
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Moneyboat. Loan 5 was 
taken out almost 11 months after Mr Cs first. And it was for a much larger amount. 
Mr C had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Moneyboat  
over an extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Moneyboat approved loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Cs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him/her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 1 to 5 and Moneyboat  should  put things 
right.
Ref: DRN26661294putting things right  what Moneyboat needs  to do
Moneyboat should  not have provided  Mr C with loans  1-5. 
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 1-5; **
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 1-4 from Mr Cs credit file;
By loan 5 any information recorded  about him is adverse. So, all entries  about  loan 5 
should be removed  from Mr Cs credit  file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest.  Moneyboat           
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
**Mr Cs IVA practitioner  has registered  an interest  in any award  Mr C is given. Mr C will be 
aware of his obligations under that arrangement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Evergreen  
Finance London  Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2666129