K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about how MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE for short)  has 
dealt with his claim  on his motorcycle insurance  policy.
Background
In January 2019 I issued a provisional decision  upholding this complaint. In short I didnt  
think it fair for MCE to rely on its terms and conditions to not settle Mr Ts claim.
Both Mr T and MCE have responded to my provisional decision.  MCE made  further 
comments. Mr T accepted  my position without further comments.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MCE has said it accepts Mr T was trying to sell his motorbike but he still must abide  by the 
agreed terms and conditions. Particularly his putting the keys in the ignition increased the 
risk of his vehicle being stolen and that he has not take reasonable care to safeguard his 
vehicle. MCE go on to say the circumstances of the theft is classed as thief hijacking rather 
than using trickery or deception to get possession of the vehicle; I disagree and believe that 
hijacking a vehicle while the owner  of the vehicle is present,  is still classed as 
trickery/deception.
Hijacking is seizing control  of something (in this case a bike).  Tricking/deceiving  into handing 
over control is a different thing in my opinion. And bearing in mind  Mr Ts comments  quoted  
in my provisional decision I see what happened here to be more  like hijacking the motorbike 
than simply using trickery or deception  to get possession of it. So I dont think  this argument 
by MCE is persuasive.
In relation to the other points MCE has made  I note that MCE hasnt brought  up any other 
new arguments or evidence but has essentially repeated earlier arguments which Ive dealt 
with in my provisional decision. As such I see little to be gained by repeating what Ive 
already said in my provisional decision.  And I remain  of the opinion that it would be unfair for 
MCE not to settle  this claim. So MCE must settle Mr Ts claim in accordance  with the claims 
settlement terms in his policy and add interest to the amount due to him. MCE should  pay 
interest on the settlement amount at 8% simple  per year  from the date the bike was 
stolen to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCE to take off tax from this interest.  MCE must  give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint about MCE Insurance Company Limited and direct it to settle to claim 
as I have described  above. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, I am 
required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 26 March  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20634022Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr T has complained about  how MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE  for short) has dealt with 
his claim on his motorcycle insurance  policy.
background
Mr T says that MCE has treated him unfairly because it hasnt paid his claim following the theft of his 
motorcycle. Hes explained it was stolen when  he was advertising it for sale and had arranged to meet  
a potential buyer  at a pre-arranged location. The motorcycle  was turned on to hear the engine run. 
Hes said the potential buyer asked me if he can sit on the bike to check  gears  while  standing still, he 
had no helmet  or anything else with him and so we were talking while  he was on the bike and then 
suddenly he kicked a gear and drove off.
MCE turned the claim  down on the basis that the policy  says it will not pay out where there has been 
loss or damage:
as a result of theft if at any time the ignition keys have been left in or on the motorcycle.
Its also says Mr T has breached  the following  condition:
You shall at all times take all reasonable steps to safeguard  your motorcycle from loss or 
damage.
MCE says that Mr T started the engine  and the third party got on your motorbike  and then rode off on 
it. So it says Mr T left the keys in the ignition. And  it also thinks it he failed to take reasonable steps 
by allowing the potential buyer to sit on his motorcycle  why it was running. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld, as she felt MCE was entitled to turn 
down Mr Ts claim. Mr T doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so I currently think  I should  uphold this complaint. 
The terms  of the policy make clear that it may not pay out when the ignition keys have been left in or 
on the motorbike. Mr T accepts they keys were in and the engine  was running whilst he was talking to 
the potential buyer who stole the motorbike. However,  as MCE should know, our approach to this sort 
of term is that for it to be fair for MCE not to pay the claim  Mr T would have had to have left the keys 
in the motorbike  and left it unattended. But this wasnt  the case. Mr T had brought the motorbike  to 
where he met the potential buyer and was present  when the person who took the bike rode off on it. 
So I dont think MCE is entitled to rely on this term to not pay out on Mr Ts claim.
As MCE has pointed out, the terms also state  that Mr T has to take reasonable steps to safeguard  the 
motorbike. However,  for me to think its fair for MCE to rely on this term to reject Mr Ts claim, Id have  
to be satisfied  that Mr T realised there was a risk his motorbike would be stolen  and took inadequate 
steps to prevent this, that is, that he acted recklessly. This could  have been  the case  if Mr T actually 
handed over full control of the motorbike to the potential buyer,  who then stole it. Although,  this would 
depend on why he did this and what he was thinking at the time.  But, I dont think he did hand over full 
Ref: DRN20634023control. He simply  allowed  the potential buyer to sit on the motorbike,  but was present and hadnt 
given him permission to test ride it. And I dont think Mr T had any idea the potential buyer  intended to 
steal it, so I dont think MCE is entitled to rely on this term either to reject Mr Ts claim. 
The terms  of the policy also say it doesnt  cover loss or damage to a motorbike resulting  from fraud, 
trickery or deception. MCE didnt rely on this term in its original decision regarding Mr Ts claim. But 
our investigator did consider  it and commented  on why he felt MCE  could  rely on it. MCE hasnt 
responded to this, but I think its fair to consider  whether its entitled to rely on it, as I suspect  if I asked 
it to reconsider the claim knowing it couldnt rely on the two terms Ive dealt with above, it would  rely 
on this term instead. 
Theres no doubt Mr T lost his motorbike as a result of trickery  and deception. But our approach in 
deciding whether  its appropriate for an insurer  to rely on this sort of clause to reject a claim is to 
consider whether the seller  willingly relinquished control of the car or motorbike  without taking 
reasonable steps. Mr T didnt relinquish  control of the motorbike at all; he let the potential  buyer sit on 
it to test the gears, which Id say is a reasonable thing to do in the circumstances. And he stayed right 
by the motorbike  and didnt let the potential buyer ride it off, for example  on a test ride. Having spoken 
to Mr T I note he has described how he remained  within hands reach of the bike throughout and that 
when the thief started to drive the bike he had to swerve to avoid hitting Mr T as he was so close to 
the bike at the time. So  I think what happened is more like a thief hijacking the motorbike than 
simply using trickery or deception to get possession of it. And I dont think  it would produce a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint if I were to allow  MCE  to rely on the theft, trickery and 
deception exclusion to reject Mr Ts claim.  
So, I intend to make  MCE settle Mr Ts claim  in accordance with the claims settlement terms in his 
policy and add interest  to the amount due to him. MCE should  pay interest on the settlement amount 
at 8% simple  per year  from the date the bike was stolen to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MCE to take off tax from this interest. MCE must give Mr 
T a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive provisionally decided to uphold  Mr Ts complaint and order MCE 
Insurance Company  Limited to settle his claim  in accordance  with the claims  settlement terms in his 
policy. I also intend it to add interest to the amount due to Mr T at eight per cent per annum simple  
from the date Mr Ts bike was stolen  to the date of actual payment. 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2063402