K820x#14complaint
Ms C says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBOS) mis-sold her a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Ms C bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I think that RBOS made Ms C aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because RBOS has been able to give us a copy  of the credit  
agreement, which has been completed by hand and signed by Ms C. There  is a separate  
box on the agreement  entitled PAYMENT PROTECTION and Ms C has ticked  to say YES, 
please protect my repayments now. I think if Ms C hadnt wanted to take the PPI then she 
wouldnt have ticked to say that she did. 
The application was made by post,  so without any involvement of RBOS staff.  And as 
RBOS didnt advise  Ms C or recommend the PPI to her, it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to give Ms C enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information RBOS  gave Ms C about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But Ms C doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  a pre-existing medical  condition  as an example.
And based on what I know about Ms Cs circumstances it looks  like the policy  could have 
been useful to her. Ms C was employed  and if she wasnt able to work would have received 
employee benefits of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. 
But in the event of a successful claim if Ms C wasnt able to work because of accident, 
sickness or involuntary redundancy, the policy would have paid 10% of the credit cards 
outstanding balance each month, and would have done so for up to 12 months. So any 
employee benefits Ms C may have received could have been  used  for other  essential  
outgoings at what  could have been  a difficult time.  
The policy also had life cover. So overall,  I dont think that better  information  would have put 
Ms C off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Ms Cs comments,  particularly what she has told us about her 
employee benefits. But because of what Ive said, this doesnt change my mind. 
Ref: DRN28650432my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2865043