K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by Mrs L in February  2006.  The 
Card and policy were arranged during a meeting with a representative from HSBC in one of 
its branches.
Mrs L says the costs and the optionality of the PPI policy  was not made  clear  and HSBC 
sold her a policy she didnt want. She thinks it mis-sold the PPI to her.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint for the following  reasons:
I have looked at whether Mrs L was given a choice  to have PPI by HSBC  in the meeting 
or whether it was added without her consent. Mrs L hasnt  been  detailed in her 
recollections about how the policy was sold, although this is completely understandable 
due to the amount of time that has passed.  So because I havent been  able to obtain too 
much from either party about  what happened during the meeting,  I have  needed to also 
look at the sales  documentation and consider what  I know of HSBCs sales  processes to 
understand more  about what I think more likely happened  during  the sale.
I am persuaded HSBC made Mrs L aware  that the PPI was optional and she chose to 
take it. I say this because  I can see on the credit card application form that PPI is 
presented as optional. I am persuaded when looking at this form and what I know  of 
sales that took place at that time that a conversation was most likely  had between  the 
parties regarding  Mrs L having PPI and she agreed to it by signing the form.
Moving on, it is more  likely than not that HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs L in the 
meeting, so it had to check  if it was suitable  for her. HSBC also had to ensure that the 
information it gave  Mrs L was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could  make  an 
informed choice  about the insurance.
When looking at Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time,  I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation. I say this as I can see the policy would  have provided a useful benefit 
in a difficult  time for her, for longer than her 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay 
with her employer. The policy would have paid for up to an extended period if she 
couldnt work.  So I think the policy  provided  some benefit to Mrs L, at least enough that 
it didnt make  it unsuitable.
Ref: DRN25332842I dont think on this occasion Mrs L was affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  
within the policy such as those given for pre-existing medical  conditions.
Im not sure if the costs  were  clearly disclosed to Mrs L. But I think she wouldve taken 
the policy  anyway  even if they were  for the reasons  already given. The PPI policy was 
competitively priced and affordable.
So I think it unlikely Mrs L would have  made  a different decision if better information had 
been provided and I think  the policy recommended  was suitable for her. Which  means  HSBC  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mrs L about that. 
Because HSBC  didnt  tell Mrs L, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, I am required  to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2533284