K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr H holds with Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage 
Credit. Hes unhappy with how the payments he makes are managed; in particular a delay in 
transferring part of his payments to a separate fees account. 
background
Mr Rs mortgage with Engage is made up of two accounts; the main balance  and a fees 
balance. His payments come from two sources, a regular contribution from the Department  
for Work and Pensions (DWP) and a standing  order payment from Mr Rs bank account.  The 
two payments are credited to the main account,  and each month Engage makes a manual 
transfer to the fees account of the necessary amount.
The transfer doesnt always happen right away; theres typically  several days gap between 
the standing order  coming in and the transfer to the fees account. Mr R says this makes it 
difficult for him to keep  track of what his balances are, and hes concerned this is costing him 
more in interest. Engage has assured him this isnt the case, as the manual transfers are 
backdated but Mr R remains  unhappy.  He also doesnt like the way hes been  spoken to by 
Engage staff on occasions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He explained  that the manual 
transfer was necessary because Mr R made  his payments  by standing order,  which  has a 
clearance period.  If he used direct debit, the money  could be apportioned across the two 
accounts more  quickly. Mr R asked  for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman; he 
explained why he prefers not to use direct  debit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone  else.
The design  of Engages  account management systems is the reason the portion of Mr Rs 
payment that belongs  on the fees balance has to be transferred manually, and back-dated. 
That can only be carried out once  the incoming payment has cleared.  Standing  orders  can 
typically take three days to clear.  Theres also the added complication  of Mr Rs contribution  
from the DWP, which is paid at four-weekly  rather than monthly  intervals. Engages manual 
diary system has to accommodate the variations that this throws up, which  means the timing 
of the transfer  to the fees account can sometimes vary as well. 
I appreciate Mr R finds that irksome, but its not something Engage  is doing to annoy him; its 
just the way its systems  adjust to the circumstances. If Mr R thinks  Engages  systems should  
Ref: DRN22466002operate a different way, hed need  to take that up with the regulator. Insofar as the transfers 
are back-dated appropriately,  theres  no reason to believe  Mr R is losing out financially.
I also make  the specific point that neither  the investigator nor I are passing  judgement  on 
Mr Rs preference for paying by standing order rather than direct  debit.  Hes explained  why 
that is, and its entirely his prerogative. Its also his choice, however, and its not 
unreasonable or unfair to ensure hes made aware that the delay hes complaining  about  is, 
at least in part, a consequence of that choice. 
Mr R has said hes unhappy with the way staff members at Engage have spoken to him. 
Thats a subjective  area, as not everyone perceives  things the same way. One persons 
rudeness is anothers plain speaking. Thats rather well-illustrated by the fact that Mr R has 
expressed similar displeasure at the way our staff have spoken to him whilst,  at the same 
time, one of our managers has taken issue with Mr R about his use of apparently 
intemperate language towards  our staff.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2246600