K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains that she has been treated unfairly  by DJS (UK) Limited trading as 
Piggybank. She says she was in financial difficulties and Piggybank  had been  
unsympathetic in the way it dealt with her.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 August 2019 where I gave  a detailed 
background to this complaint. Ive included a copy of the background and an excerpt of my 
provisional decision at the end of this decision as it forms part of my final decision. I gave 
both parties the opportunity to provide further comments and evidence  before I reached a 
final decision  on the matter.
The time for response  has now passed  and Piggybank didnt respond to my provisional 
decision. Miss B responded to say that she disagreed with parts of my provisional findings. 
In summary,  she said that:
She didnt feel that the full extent of the communication  with Piggybank  had been 
taken into account.
She found the continued chasers through text and email messages to be impersonal 
and shed expressed that she was dissatisfied with the continued messaging.
Piggybank issued more than one default notices and she thinks  it recorded the 
default on her credit  file more  than once.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to say that I have considered in full all the information that Miss B and 
Piggybank have provided. Piggybank  sent several emails and text messages informing 
Miss B that repayments were due and that loan repayments were overdue. Most of the 
messages were sent towards the end of the month  and some were  sent early in the month. 
Ive also seen that on some days, Miss B was receiving up to three messages from 
Piggybank. Some of Piggybanks messages offered Miss B discounts on the settlement 
figure and updated her about the legal status  of her account. There were also several  days 
during the month where Piggybank didnt  contact Miss B. 
From what  I can see, most of the texts  and emails were sent when Miss B hadnt  been in 
contact with Piggybank  for a period of time. From some of the correspondence,  I can see 
that Piggybank  says it had tried to contact  Miss B to discuss her account  but it had been 
unable to speak  to her and requested  that she contacts it. When Miss B was in contact with 
Piggybank, either to set up a payment plan or request more  time,  it acknowledged this and 
was willing  to accommodate  Miss Bs requests.  It also wasnt  sending Miss B automated 
messages when she was in contact.
Ref: DRN25426962I can understand why Miss B wouldve felt dissatisfied  with the contact from Piggybank and I 
sympathise with her, particularly given some  of the difficulties that she was having. I can 
appreciate that it wasnt easy  for Miss B to deal with the financial and wider difficulties she 
found herself in at the time and Im sorry she had to go through  that. On the other hand 
Piggybank had a right to request payment of the debt Miss B owed and I think  it was 
reasonable for Piggybank  to keep Miss B informed of the account status. Overall, I dont 
think Piggybank acted unfairly.
In relation to the default notices issued, I can see that Piggybank issued a total of three 
default notices.  The first default notice was issued on 25 November 2016, after this default 
was issued, Miss B agreed a repayment plan and Piggybank in an email  on 
13 December 2016 informed Miss B to disregard the default notice issued as there was a 
payment plan in place.  I can see that the payment  plan wasnt  adhered to and so on 
30 May 2018, Piggybank issued a second default  notice. On 2 July 2018,  Miss B raised  a 
complaint about  how Piggybank had treated her. And on 26 October  2018,  a third default  
notice was issued.
Ive asked Piggybank  why it issued the default notice in October 2018 when it had previously 
issued one in May 2018. It has said it essentially put Miss Bs account  on hold when she 
raised her complaint  in July and so action wasnt taken on her account  during its 
investigation into her complaint.  I can see that it explained in its final response letter that it 
had placed Miss Bs account on hold until 21 September  2018.  Miss Bs complaint wasnt 
upheld by Piggybank and there was still an outstanding balance, so the account was taken 
off hold and Piggybank says it re-issued the default notice on 26 October 2018.
Ive also asked Piggybank if it entered a default  on Miss Bs credit file more than once and it 
has confirmed that it reported the default  to the credit reference agency. The fact that 
Piggybank issued default notices on their own isnt enough to say that more than one default 
was recorded  and it doesnt automatically mean that Piggybank immediately recorded the 
default on Miss Bs credit file. I havent  seen a copy of Miss Bs credit file to confirm that the 
default for this loan was recorded  more  than once. To be clear,  I wouldnt  expect  Piggybank 
to record the default  for the same  loan more than once as that wouldnt be fair. Piggybank 
has a duty to report entries accurately  on Miss Bs credit file and the status of this loan 
should reflect this. As I stated, I havent  seen Miss Bs credit  file that confirms the default for 
this loan was recorded more than once and so I cant say that Piggybank recorded more 
than one default for this loan. 
Having reconsidered  all the information again, my decision remains unchanged. But as I 
stated in my provisional decision, I dont think it was fair for Piggybank  to continue adding 
interest from 14 October 2016 and it needs  to put things right in relation to that. 
putting things right
Piggybank should  remove  any interest  and charges added to the loan from 
14 October 2016
Id remind Piggybank of its duty to treat Miss B positively and sympathetically  - 
working with Miss B on agreeing a repayment plan.
Ref: DRN25426963my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I partially  uphold  Miss Bs 
complaint and require DJS (UK) Limited  to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN25426964Excerpts from Provisional decision
background
Miss B borrowed three loans from Piggybank, shes fully repaid the first two loans. The third loan 
was taken  in July 2016  for £350, Miss B hasnt repaid this loan.
Miss B was due to repay  this loan on 30 July 2016 but on 27 July 2016,  she contacted Piggybank 
requesting to defer  the repayment until August 2016, Piggybank told Miss B that she could defer 
repayment but had to make  the interest payment.  Miss B didnt respond to the request for the interest 
payment and Piggybank  sent her reminders of the due payments.  On 31 July 2016,  a notice of 
arrears was issued to Miss B for the overdue repayment.
On 2 August 2016,  Piggybank confirmed  it was freezing the interest and charges on Miss Bs 
account. It told her the outstanding balance was £451.80 and asked how shed  like to repay  it.
Miss B sent an email  on 13 August  2016  to say she was in financial difficulties and requested a 30 
day freeze on her account. On the same day Piggybank  confirmed that itd freeze interest and 
charges for 30 days as requested and on 15 August 2016, it confirmed it had cancel the continuous  
payment authority it held for Miss B.
During the 30 day hold, Miss B requested a payment plan to repay  her loan in 4 instalments. 
Piggybank agreed  and set up a repayment plan for 4 payments; 3 payments of £118.55 and 1 
payment of £474.20 to be taken out 3rd of the month.  Miss B requested 30th of the month as the 
payment date, Piggybank  says it set the payment  date a few days after the 30th of the month to 
allow time for Miss Bs payment to be processed as she was repaying  by bank transfer.
Miss B didnt  repay any part of loan in accordance  with the plan and on 3 October  2016,
Miss B emailed Piggybank  to say she was ill and requested a one month delay to the start of the 
plan. Piggybank responded  by giving Miss B the option to either  alter the plan to an affordable 
amount or move the repayment date.
On 14 October 2016,  Miss B contacted Piggybank to say it was no longer possible  for her to afford 
the payments on the repayment plan and that she was in receipt of job seekers allowance. Miss B 
requested a further 30 day hold on her account.  Piggybank confirmed it would freeze her account for 
30 days which  would also mean that Miss B wouldnt  receive automated communication.
When the 30 day hold was due to end, Piggybank contacted  Miss B to ask how shell like to 
proceed. Piggybank  then issued  a default letter  on 14 November 2016 as it didnt hear from Miss B.
On 28 November  2018, Miss B contacted  Piggybank  proposing a repayment plan of £1 per month.  
Miss B provided  her income and expenditure information. Miss B also raised concerns about 
Piggybanks contact through text, emails and phone calls.
Piggybank accepted Miss Bs proposal  and set up the £1 monthly  repayment for 29th of each month.  
It said it had set it up for 29th even though  Miss B requested 27th as it needed  to allow some time for 
the payment to be processed.
In the meantime a default notice  had been issued  and Piggybank asked  Miss B to disregard the 
notice as there was now a payment plan in place.
Ref: DRN25426965Miss B missed some payments on the plan and Piggybank issued another  default notice in May 
2018. Miss B raised a formal  complaint  about how Piggybank had handled her account  and a further 
default notice was issued  in October 2018.
Miss B says she feels harassed by Piggybanks  several emails  and text messages daily chasing  the 
loan repayment. And that Piggybank hadnt  treated  her fairly  even though shed explained she was 
in financial difficulties and ill health. Piggybank says it hasnt done anything wrong as it tried to work 
with Miss B on an affordable way to repay the loan and it had an obligation  to keep Miss B informed 
about her loan.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint  and said that Piggybank had acted fairly. Miss B
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me.
Piggybanks communication  with Miss B.
From the information provided by both parties, there were  quite a number of email exchanges  
between Miss B and Piggybank. Miss B has also provided information  about the text messages and 
emails shed received.  Piggybank has also sent its email communication with Miss B.
Ive thought about the nature of Piggybanks  communication with Miss B and whether  it did 
anything wrong. I can see that before  a payment  was due on Miss Bs account Piggybank was 
sending automated messages to remind  Miss B about the upcoming payments. I can see that it 
sent her a three day reminder and on the day the loan was due it was sending  about  three 
reminders about the payment.
Miss B had missed a number of payments  during the time and on some occasions when  Piggybank 
had expected  a response from Miss B, it wasnt forthcoming. That essentially meant that the account 
continued to run on the automated messages. For example after Miss B asked to defer the loan 
repayment in July 2016,  Piggybank explained that she had to pay the interest due to date for the 
loan to be deferred. As Miss B didnt respond to that email, the account went into arrears which  
Piggybank had to communicate to Miss B. Also, as the 30 hold on her account was coming to an end 
in September 2016, Piggybank again contacted Miss B about  arranging next steps but as there was 
no response and so automated messages  about the outstanding balance and arrears were sent.
When Miss B told Piggybank  that she was in financial  difficulties and ill, it reacted by placing  her 
account on hold as she requested and on both occasions that Miss B requested a payment plan, 
Piggybank accepted Miss Bs proposal  and set up the plan in line with her requests. I think  
Piggybank been sympathetic  towards her difficulties  and dealt with Miss B positively  in this regard.
Miss B has said that shed been chased for payments she already made but from the information 
available Miss B asked  Piggybank to set up the £1 monthly repayment date for the 27th of the month 
and I can see that Piggybank set it up for 29th of the month  effectively  allowing two days for the 
payment to be processed. I can also see that it explained to Miss B that she had to make the 
payment by 27th of the month  to ensure its reflected in her account  by the due date.
From what I can see, Miss Bs payments appear to have been processed after the due date of 29th 
of each month and so Miss B was getting automated messages about non-payment. I accept  that its 
likely Miss B made the payments before  she received the arrears notification and so she may have 
been upset to receive a notification for payments shes made. But Piggybank explained that the 
payment had to be made on 27th  a date Miss B proposed herself and so making the repayments 
after that date meant that the delay in payment put the account in arrears. Piggybank  explained this 
to Miss B and I can see that it asked  her the date her payment  was set up to leave her account to 
Ref: DRN25426966ensure there was no further delay with processing  the payment. But I cant see that Miss B 
responded to this request.
So while Miss B may have received several  reminders  and notice of arrears, I think  Piggybank tried to 
work with Miss B to clear the outstanding balance  and it sent reminders and notifications  in line with 
its process. I dont think in the circumstance  it has been  unfair to Miss B. Piggybank  communicated 
with Miss B through means shed provided and I cant see that she requested to be communicated 
with differently.
Every time the account went into arrears further interest was charged and Piggybank informed Miss 
B that if the payment  plan wasnt kept up to date,  it would  back  date the interest charges  which I can 
see that it did. However, Im mindful that Piggybank was aware of Miss Bs financial difficulties  and 
shed struggled to repay  the amounts she owed and in those circumstances, I dont  think  it was fair 
for it to continue adding interest to the loan. I think that from the point Miss B told Piggybank she 
was in financial difficulties  and receiving job seekers allowance  14 October 2016,  it should have 
stopped adding interest from that point. From the information available I think Piggybank could see 
that Miss Bs circumstances werent  substantially  improving and I dont  it was fair for it to increase 
her indebtedness in the circumstances.
default  on the account
I can see that Piggybank issued three default notice letters in total. In November 2016, Piggybank 
issued a default as the account was in arrears and there wasnt  a payment plan in place. After 
Piggybank agreed  to set up the payment plan in December 2016, it informed Miss B to disregard 
the default  notice as there  was now a plan in place.  I think the default notice was correctly  issued 
as Miss B had been in arrears from July 2016 and the repayment plan set up in October  2016 
wasnt followed.  I also think that once the repayment plan was set up, Piggybank acted properly by 
asking Miss B to disregard the notice.
In relation to the second payment plan, I can see that after March 2018 no further payments were  
received from Miss B in line with the £1 payment  plan agreed and so in May 2018, Piggybank  issued 
a notice of default as the payment plan wasnt up to date. After this Miss B raised  a complaint about 
how Piggybank had communicated  with her.
I asked  Piggybank why it issued  two default  notices  on this payment plan as there was another  
default notice issued in October 2018. It has said when Miss B raised  a complaint;  it placed her 
account on hold while it investigated the complaint.  As the complaint was responded to and the 
account remained in arrears,  it re-issued  the default.  I think this was reasonable.
Piggybank has confirmed that it reported  Miss Bs account as in default and I havent seen any 
evidence to show that it recorded the default about the loan on her credit file more  than once.
I appreciate that Miss B is going through a difficult time with her health, finances and circumstances 
in general  and while  I can see why shed feel harassed having considered  all the evidence, I cant 
say Piggybank acted outside its authority or that it hadnt acted positively and sympathetically 
towards Miss B in all regards.
However, I think it was unfair for Piggybank to continue  adding interest payments to Miss Bs 
outstanding balance when it was aware  of her difficulties. And it needs to put things right.
Piggybank is entitled to chase the debt Miss B owes and Id remind it to treat Miss B positively and 
sympathetically while trying  to recover the debt. And Piggybank should work with Miss B on the 
best way and method of communication.
Ref: DRN2542696