K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has unreasonably 
declined her claim for permanent and total disability benefit. 
background
In 1999, Mrs W took out a Flexible  Mortgage  Plan (the plan)  with Legal and General, which 
was made  up of two individual policies.  It provided life and critical illness cover,  including 
benefit in the event  Mrs W became permanently and totally  disabled,  during the term of 
cover. 
Sadly Mrs W experienced a significant  period of ill-health following the birth of her child. She 
was investigated  for a possible stroke in 2000, and spent some time in a stroke rehabilitation 
unit in 2002. 
In 2003 Mrs W submitted a claim for critical illness benefit under the plan, on the grounds 
that shed suffered a stroke. Legal and General turned down the claim as it didnt consider 
shed received a definitive  diagnosis of stroke. A complaint was later considered by this 
service, but it wasnt upheld. 
In 2006 Mrs W submitted a claim for permanent and total disability benefit,  as shed been 
unable to work since 2001. Before reaching a conclusion  on the claim, Legal and General 
arranged for Mrs W to undergo an independent medical examination.  But the review was 
cancelled by Mrs W and never went ahead.  
Mrs Ws policies  were surrendered in 2008 and 2011, ending all cover  provided by the plan.
Mr W, on behalf of Mrs W, contacted this service in 2018 to ask us to consider 
Legal and Generals earlier claims decisions. We couldnt consider a complaint about the 
earlier decisions as theyd  been brought to us too late. 
But Legal  and General  agreed to reconsider new evidence Mrs W wanted to present in 
support of her claim. It explained  that it could only consider whether the medical  evidence  
demonstrated Mrs W met the relevant policy definitions before 2011, when cover  under her 
plan ended. Having considered the evidence  it turned down Mrs Ws claims for both critical 
illness benefit and permanent and total disability benefit, on the basis that the medical 
evidence didnt support she met the policy definition.
Mr W referred a complaint to our service, which was ultimately considered by an 
ombudsman for a final decision. She concluded, based  on the available  medical evidence, 
Legal and General had been fair to decline both claims for critical illness benefit and 
permanent and total disability benefit. But she noted  Mr W had provided some further 
evidence in support  of Mrs Ws claim that hadnt  been considered  by Legal and General. 
She explained she couldnt  consider this evidence as part of her review, but suggested that it 
be presented back to Legal  and General for its consideration. 
Legal and General considered the extra information  - which included a letter  from Mrs Ws 
general practitioner, who Ill call Dr C, and two letters  from a specialist in occupational 
medicine, who Ill call Dr J. Legal  and General didnt agree it demonstrated that Mrs W met 
the policy definition  before her cover ended. It explained the policy  provided cover  in the 
event Mrs W met the following policy definition: 
Ref: DRN27381582If the life assured is engaged in a gainful occupation immediately before the onset of 
disability and is, by reason  of sickness or accident,  totally unable to follow  her own 
occupation whatsoever and in the opinion of the Chief Medical Officer of Legal  & General is 
likely to remain so permanently. Such decision will be based on all of the medical evidence 
available.
Legal and General didnt  consider  the evidence from Dr C was sufficiently  clear  that Mrs W 
was permanently unable  to follow her occupation. It noted Dr C had said she was unable to 
follow her occupation  in the foreseeable future , but said this didnt go as far as saying she 
would be permanently unable  to perform her occupation, as was required by the policy  terms 
and conditions. It also noted that Dr Js letter largely just repeated Dr Cs opinion, and didnt 
demonstrate hed carried out his own assessment  of Mrs W.
Mr W disagreed  with Legal and Generals assessment, and asked our service to consider its 
most recent review. 
Our investigator considered the complaint,  but didnt uphold  it. He noted that while Dr C had 
been clear Mrs W was not capable of work  it wasnt clear she felt the incapacity  was 
permanent. He also noted that Dr Js report was largely just repeating the findings from Dr C. 
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators opinion. He maintained that the evidence provided  did 
prove Mrs Ws incapacity was permanent, particularly as shed  be on lifetime  medication to 
control her condition. He also questioned the investigators interpretation of the medical 
evidence. 
As theres  been  no agreement on how this complaint should be resolved, its been  passed to 
me for a final decision.  
I should explain that while Ive taken time to understand the detailed background to this 
complaint, my review  will only consider Legal and Generals recent decision to decline 
Mrs Ws claim in 2019. 
I understand that since the investigator issued his opinion on this case Mr W presented more 
information for us to consider. The investigator passed this information on to 
Legal and General for consideration, as some  of it wasnt included in its file to us. It has 
since replied to say it doesnt  consider any of the information provided  to be new.  It has said 
the information was either  considered as part of earlier claims  decisions,  which  our service 
cant consider as theyve  been brought too late; or have already been considered by the 
ombudsman who considered the complaint in 2018. So its told us it wont be reassessing  
the claim based on this information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn  of Mrs Ws serious ill-health. I can see from the correspondence 
weve received that it has been an incredibly difficult time for Mr and Mrs W and their family.
In considering this complaint, Ive had to decide  whether  Legal  and General was fair to 
maintain its decision  to decline Mrs Ws claim for permanent and total disability benefit, after 
it received and considered the additional medical evidence from Mr W. Having done  so, Im 
Ref: DRN27381583satisfied that Legal  and General was fair to decline the claim. So I wont  be upholding this 
complaint. I realise  this will come as a serious  disappointment to Mr and Mrs W so Id like to 
explain how Ive reached this conclusion. 
As the previous ombudsman has explained,  for a claim for permanent  and total disability 
benefit to be accepted under the plan, thered need to be sufficient medical  evidence  to 
show that Mrs W was totally  unable to perform her occupation, and that her incapacity was 
considered to be permanent before the plan ended. 
It seems  to have been accepted that Mrs W was totally  unable  to perform her occupation, 
but the question was whether her incapacity would be permanent. And whether this could be 
proved before cover ended in 2011.  
Mr W has provided several  documents from Dr C. One is a letter to an accredited  specialist 
in occupational medicine from 2009.  Another is a medical report from 2003. In both 
documents Dr C gives her opinion that Mrs W was unlikely to return  to her occupation in the 
foreseeable future and that she should be considered for retirement  on medical grounds. 
I can see why Mr and Mrs W may consider this to be strong  evidence  to show Mrs Ws 
incapacity was ongoing. But I dont think its sufficiently persuasive or unequivocal to confirm 
that the incapacity was permanent when Dr C gave her opinion.  
In the report from 2003, Dr C was asked to comment on whether Mrs W was likely to able to 
render regular and efficient service in the future to which she answered v difficult to say. 
When asked what adjustments could be made to allow  for a return to work Dr C said I do 
not feel I am in a position to comment on this. I feel a consultant in rehabilitative medicine or 
occupational health would  be better placed to answer. So by her own comments, I cant say 
Dr C was best placed to provide an opinion on Mrs Ws incapacity  at the time, or in the 
future. Im also aware that Mrs W was under the care of other medical professionals  at the 
time who didnt share the same opinion. 
As such,  I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal  and General to expect more persuasive 
evidence that Mrs Ws incapacity  was permanent before it accepted  the claim. 
Mr W has also provided a copy  of a letter from Dr J, an accredited specialist in occupational  
medicine, also dated from 2009. In the letter  Dr J states Mrs W is very likely to be 
considered disabled as it is defined in legislation. Adjustment and return  to work do not 
appear feasible.  Again  I can understand why Mr and Mrs W feel this supports that Mrs Ws 
incapacity is permanent. But Legal  and General noted that when read as a whole, it appears 
that Dr Js conclusions have been drawn directly  from Dr Cs earlier letter  where she 
provided her opinion of Mrs Ws condition and chances of returning to work. Theres  nothing 
to suggest that Dr J had examined  Mrs W himself, and as such his opinion can only be 
considered to be second-hand, and is therefore not as persuasive as if hed drawn  
conclusions from his own examination. In these  circumstances, I again dont think  it was 
unreasonable that Legal and General was not persuaded to accept the claim on the strength 
of Dr Js letter. 
Its clear that this has been a very difficult  claim  to assess. This is in part due to the time 
thats passed since Mrs Ws first claimed  and when the claim was reconsidered last year, 
and the fact that the policies were  surrendered  in 2008 and 2011. Theres  no doubt that 
Mrs W has been very seriously affected by her ill-health, which  started in 2000.  And she may 
well meet the policy definition of permanent  and total disability now.  But as the policies were 
surrendered in 2008 and 2011, for a claim to be accepted  there would need to be sufficient 
Ref: DRN27381584evidence that she met that definition before cover under  the policy stopped.  Having 
considered the new information Mr W has presented,  Im not persuaded this shows Mrs W 
met the definition before  2011.  So, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Legal and General to maintain its decision to decline her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
 
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2738158