K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs W says she wasnt made  aware of PPI being added to her account and wouldve 
declined it if given  the option.  She applied for the card by post. Bank  of Scotland  has 
sent in a copy of Mrs Ws credit card application form. On it, theres a section about  
PPI. To take out PPI, the customer had to select the box saying  they wanted it. The 
box couldve been left blank if they didnt  want PPI. There is a tick in the box on 
Mrs Ws application selecting  PPI. She signed  the application form.. So, I think it 
more likely that Mrs W opted to take PPI, completing  the paperwork and signing the 
form to say she wanted it. I can understand why she may not remember that now,  
given how much time has passed.  
Bank of Scotland didnt recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check  
that it was suitable  for her. However, it still had to give her information that was clear,  
fair and not misleading so that she could decide for herself if the PPI was right for her 
and she wanted  to buy it.
Mrs W said she wouldve got some benefits  through work if she wasnt working, but 
couldnt remember how much.  She said she had no other means  of making  her 
repayments. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, I cant 
see that PPI was inappropriate for her needs.  She was eligible to take out the policy 
and it appeared  affordable. I cant see that she was affected by any of the main  
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy  wouldve paid out on top of any 
work benefits Mrs W wouldve got, allowing her to use these to meet her other 
household expenses.  It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. 
So, I cant see that Mrs Ws other resources meant that the PPI wasnt right for her.
 
Mrs W says the information she was given about  PPI wasnt clear. Its possible the 
information Bank of Scotland gave  Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. The application  form told her the cost of the PPI, so I think she wouldve 
understood what she had to pay for it. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs Ws said but these points dont change my decision.
This means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Bank  of Scotland doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
Ref: DRN20385162But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt  
tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2038516