K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy about the settlement St Andrews Insurance  Plc (SAI) offered her for a 
storm damage claim made under her home insurance policy. She is also dissatisfied with 
how the matter was handled by SAI and the compensation offered.
background
On 6 October 2018 Mrs W made a claim on her home insurance policy  because  she noticed 
water stains  on the ceiling of her kitchen. At that time, she thought something must have 
happened to her bungalow roof during a storm the previous week,  which had allowed water 
ingress. Subsequently, it was concluded the damage must have happened  during a period of 
extreme weather in February  2018  damage  had been caused due to the weight of snow on 
the roof. Mrs W recollected having heard a loud crack from the roof at that time. 
As Mrs W had already arranged for a local builder to attend to assess  the damage, SAI 
asked that the builder  provide it with a cause of damage report,  so it could assess  whether it 
had any liability for the damage.  
The statement  dated 11 October 2018,  from the builder who Mrs W called out to assess the 
damage to her roof, said that he had first visited on 12 April 2018 due to the freak downfall 
of snow and concerns  about what damage had been caused by it. He had gone into the loft 
space but access  close to the eaves  had been restricted. However,  there had been damage 
to the structural timbers, to which he had done  a temporary repair. He said he had provided  
a full quotation for the works that were  now required,  and it had been  confirmed  repairs  
would start two weeks later. He stated that he believed the damage was due to weather 
conditions and storm, as the roof had been well looked after and maintained.
The attached estimate detailed  the work the builder was proposing to complete to Mrs Ws 
roof. It was described  as a complete re-roof with new dry verge and ridge systems being 
installed. In addition, it was detailed that the builder  would investigate as to why drop has 
occurred.
As SAI didnt think the builder had provided  enough  information for it to make  a decision 
about its liability, it arranged for its own experts  to assess  the damage,  which  happened on 
22 October 2018. It had been told that some  temporary repairs  had been  completed in 
March 2018, but rain had recently  come  through the roof and stained  the kitchen ceiling. It 
identified there was a dip to the roof to the edge  of the front elevation. This had allowed rain 
to penetrate the tiles. It concluded that the evidence  available indicated  the damage  was 
consistent with failure  of the lats  the horizontal battens the tiles were attached  to. It 
concluded the damage to the lats was due to wear  and tear, which  had allowed water 
ingress resulting  in staining to the ceiling below. The internal damage was due to the poor 
condition of the roof.
In light of this, the claim was declined. Mrs W wasnt happy with this decision and provided 
further information and raised  a complaint. The complaint was initially  responded to in SAIs  
letter of 29 October 2018.  It explained why it had declined the claim based on its experts 
report. It also considered  whether it was likely the damage had occurred in the February 
rather than more recently as originally  suggested.  SAI didnt think it had because  it would  
have expected problems to become apparent earlier than they did, had the damage been 
there throughout the spring, summer  and early autumn.
Ref: DRN27065302SAI did, however, apologise for having sent Mrs W the wrong definition of storm when 
discussing her claim.  It detailed the definition she should have been sent and paid Mrs W 
£25 for its error. 
Subsequently, following the roof having been stripped and a damaged  rafter  being 
discovered where the roof had dropped, further  information was provided to SAI. It reopened 
the complaint  and claim. SAI accepted the claim and made an offer to Mrs W based on a 
localised repair to the roof. This would involve  the area of the roof around  the damaged 
timber being stripped, a repair of that timber and the existing tiles being reinstalled on the 
roof. 
The complaint response  from SAI apologised for the level of service Mrs W had received.  It 
offered her £150  for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her. In addition,  in 
acknowledgement of her circumstances, SAI offered to refund the excess  that was 
deductible from the claim settlement. 
Mrs W didnt accept SAI s offer. She asked this service to consider her complaint. 
When the complaint  was referred to this service, SAI realised its offer didnt cover all the 
damage  the internal damage  to the ceiling hadnt been included  in the scope. It offered 
£50 compensation  for this error. It also suggested that Mrs Ws builder provide a breakdown 
of the cost of the repairs that had been done, both internal and external, and it would make a 
revised offer based on the builders  actual costs. It would also add 8% per annum simple 
interest to the offer from the date Mrs W paid for the repairs  to the date of settlement. 
The offer was put to Mrs W. She asked for clarification of the offer  was SAI now looking to 
cover the full cost of the repairs? She confirmed that the internal repairs hadnt  been done. 
There was some misunderstanding over SAIs  offer.  Based on the assumption that it would 
be paying the full cost of the works Mrs W had had done to the roof, plus the internal 
damage, she accepted the offer. Subsequently, Mrs Ws representative asked that SAI paid 
for the time he spent trying to get the complaint resolved. We explained that this was not 
something we would award in the circumstances.
Subsequently, the misunderstanding  about  the offer came to light  that SAI had not offered 
to pay the full cost of works done  but rather it would reconsider its offer for a localised 
repair based on Mrs Ws builders actual costs.  SAI clarified that the offer of £715.13 for 
internal costs was available  or it could arrange  for contractors to do the works. It also 
increased the offer for the external works to £876.  In addition to this there was the £150 and 
£50 offered for its errors, along with a refund of the £100 policy  excess  (which would be 
deducted from the claim settlement).
Mrs Ws representative has made  various comments to this service  following the complaint 
being referred to us.  In summary, he has said that he has been told by various  builders that 
a localised  repair to the roof wouldnt be possible.  The reasons for this included that the tiles 
in the area of a localised repair would never sit properly  and bed-in with the existing tiles; 
there would be a colour difference;  the old tiles were  imperial  and it would be impossible to 
obtain identical replacements  and the underfelt would not be continuous and couldnt be 
jointed as it would leak. In addition, he put forward that the whole roof had to be stripped to 
ensure there was no more structural damage within the roof. None  of the opinions from 
builders and roofers were provided in writing directly from those individuals or businesses.
Ref: DRN27065303One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She concluded the offer made by SAI 
was not enough because  the evidence provided  indicated the entire front pitch  of the roof 
needed to be re-tiled in order to be water-tight. As such, she considered SAI should pay 
Mrs W 50% of the costs she incurred in having  her roof re-covered. In addition, it should pay 
the full cost of the internal  repairs. In relation to the delays,  poor service  and upset  Mrs W 
had been caused by SAI, the investigator thought the total of £325 offered/paid by SAI was 
sufficient in the circumstances.
SAI didnt accept  the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman  review 
the complaint.  
I issued a provisional decision on 3 June 2020.  In that document I set out my conclusions 
and reasoning. Below is an excerpt  of my provisional decision.
I would  firstly confirm that complaint handling  isnt something that falls within this services  
remit. So Mrs Ws concerns about the complaint processes and the speed at which it was 
escalated through  SAIs  internal process are not something I will be commenting on.
I have considered the comments  of Mrs Ws builder  when the roof was assessed and the 
quote for works  provided. I consider it is clear at that stage, although the builder had said it 
had done a temporary repair, it didnt know what was wrong with the roof. Having looked  at 
the subsequent photograph  of the damage, its entirely  reasonable that this was the case  
and it doesnt  appear the damage  was visible from inside the roof cavity  because of where  it 
was located. However,  the fact that the builder didnt  know  what was wrong with the roof 
means that I cant accept  that the works detailed as being  planned  were  needed  in order to 
repair the insured  damage. As such,  I cant make an award requiring SAI to pay for the 
works detailed in the builders quotation.
In circumstances  such as these, it would be normal for further investigations to be completed 
in the area of the damage. This would involve removing tiles from the roof, but not the entire 
roof covering   it would be localised to the area of damage. Such an investigation would 
have identified the cause of the damage. 
I note that Mrs W representative has said that a localised repair  couldnt  be done for various  
reasons, however, none of those  reasons have been supported  by statements from 
appropriately experienced roofers or builders, or by a suitably qualified  surveyor.  SAIs  
expert has said that a localised repair could be done. As this is the only expert evidence I 
have available, I must rely on it. In addition, my experience of storm damage complaints to 
this type of roof do tend to involve  localised repairs  rather than complete re-roofing a 
property.
For completeness I will, however, comment on some of the further reasoning  Mrs Ws 
representative has put forward for a complete re-roof  being needed. The first of these is to 
be able to assess the remaining roof timbers to ensure  they are not damaged. Most of the 
roof timbers  would have  been assessable from within the roof cavity  and would not require 
the roof to be stripped  to see if they were  damaged.  Furthermore,  if there had been other 
areas of damage  to the timbers, it would be expected that there  would be visible  signs of the 
damage on the exterior of the roof, as there was with the one that was damaged. Whether  
Mrs W or her representative would have noticed  might be debatable,  but an experienced 
roofer would  be able to detect such damage.
Ref: DRN27065304As for the various  comments  about  replacing a localised area of tiling because matching tiles 
could not be obtained, I dont consider this would have been an issue  in this case. Having 
considered the photographic evidence, it is clear  the damage to the roofing timber  below had 
not caused damage to the tiles. As such the tiles would simply be able to be reused when 
the underlying  repairs  had been completed. This would  have  prevented any concerns about 
colour, sizing or design matches. I note that SAIs documents reusing the existing tiles as 
they hadnt been damaged.
As for the argument  that a localised repair couldnt  be done because the roofing felt would 
leak, I havent seen  any expert evidence that indicates this is the case. Again, my 
experience of such cases indicates  that a localised repair can be done. Indeed, it is very 
unlikely the entire front elevation of the roof would have been covered by a single sheet of 
felt when it was first installed.  
Having considered all of the evidence  regarding the repairs needed, I am satisfied SAI was 
not unreasonable in making  its offer based on a localised repair being done. Mrs W has 
been given the option of obtaining  information  from her builder to have the offer based  on its 
actual costs, but no further information  has been  provided. As such,  I consider SAIs  most 
recent offer, which includes the internal damage, is a fair and reasonable settlement of the 
claim.
I must now turn to the matter of the service  Mrs W received  during  the course of her claim. 
Mrs Ws claim was made some time after the damage to her roof occurred,  which would 
always make  assessing  a claim more difficult,  especially when it is initially  not clear when the 
damage occurred. The quote from Mrs Ws builder was also not of a great deal of use, as it 
quoted for works needed when the builder hadnt  established what the damage was and it 
couldnt, therefore, be established whether it was something  the insurer was liable for. 
However, SAI did use, and gave Mrs W, the wrong definition of storm. The claim was also 
declined when there was clearly  damage to the roof, but its nature hadnt  been determined, 
meaning that there was still the possibility  of there  being some liability  on the part of the 
insurer. Unfortunately, despite  the claim being  accepted after further  evidence  of damage 
was provided, the offer wasnt right in that it didnt  cover the internal damage.  That mistake 
was rectified a little over a month later and an appropriate offer made. Overall, from the time 
of notification to when an appropriate  offer was made was a little over two months  had 
passed.
SAI has offered a total of £325  compensation to reflect the failings in its service and to reflect 
Mrs Ws circumstances. I have considered this carefully, and I am inclined to conclude  it is 
sufficient in the circumstances. There was mis-communication and poor service  at times 
from SAI, but I have seen  no evidence of SAI treating Mrs W differently because of her age 
or circumstances.  Nor do I consider that in declining the claim its experts were attempting  to 
bully her.
Mrs Ws representative has asked to be compensated  for the time he spent dealing with the 
claim and subsequent complaint. It is not unusual  that a family  member will help a relative 
with such matters, but we would  not usually compensate  that person for the time they have 
chosen to spend supporting their family member. This service does occasionally  ask a 
business to cover the costs of a representative,  but such occasions are rare and will require 
a situation where  we are persuaded that the consumer is unable  to deal with the matter  
themselves. An example  of such a situation would be where  the complaint revolving around 
particularly complex  technical matters and so they need  expert  support. Having considered 
Ref: DRN27065305the circumstances of this case, I am not aware  of anything that would have prevented 
Mrs W, possibly  with some assistance from free sources such as the CAB, from raising and 
dealing with her complaint  herself. As such, I dont  propose to ask SAI to pay for Mrs Ws 
representatives time. 
Overall, I am satisfied the offers made  by SAI were appropriate and I dont intend to ask it to 
do anything more in settlement  of this complaint.
SAI accepted my provisional decision.  
Mrs W and her representative didnt accept my conclusions. They questioned why, when it 
received Mrs Ws quote, it didnt tell her to have further localised investigations done. It was 
implied that had this been done, Mrs W would not have proceeded with the works she had 
already agreed  to, would  have had further investigations done and discussions about a 
localised repair could have been  discussed. It was suggested that Mrs W only had the entire 
roof re-covered because she didnt receive enough support from SAI. In addition, Mrs W 
asked why, if SAI thought  the quote from her roofer was of no use, it didnt ask her to get 
another  at that time she had another quote, but from a roofer  who wouldnt be able to start 
the work  in the timescale Mrs W wanted.
However, Mrs Ws representative remains  of the opinion that a localised repair  could not 
have been done. Previous  reasons were  reiterated, including explaining that some tiles had 
been damaged  when  the roof had been stripped  and so they could not have been reused. 
This damage  is reported to have occurred because  of the type of fixing  used.
It was commented that had further investigatory work been  done, SAI would have been 
responsible for the cost of those investigations. It was asked why the cost of those 
investigations were  not being included in the redress. It was then put forward that the 
condition of the remaining rafters could not be assessed from inside the roof because of the 
presence of roofing felt. The felt would have  needed  to be removed for an assessment to be 
done and this would have  been a costly and time-consuming operation and would have 
compromised the quality of the roof. It was stated that it was common practice where  there 
was structural damage  to a roof for the entire roof covering to be stripped off and a thorough 
inspection done.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws representative has asked why I referenced  her age in my provisional decision. I did 
so when considering the allegations  about  SAIs representatives behaviour  toward Mrs W 
given she was a vulnerable consumer.  I would apologise to Mrs W if her age was not a 
factor in her having been described as vulnerable.
Mrs Ws representative has said that Mrs W has said her confidence in our conclusions has 
been affected because of the misunderstanding  about SAIs offer and then the change 
between the investigators conclusion and mine. I can only apologise for the 
misunderstanding about SAIs offer. However, as we explained in the information provided to 
Mrs W this service operates a two-stage process   the initial  stage is an informal  one where 
one of our investigators  will attempt to conciliate cases and gain agreement  from the parties. 
Ref: DRN27065306If agreement cant be reached  a complaint will be passed to an ombudsman for 
consideration. An ombudsman will review the complaint from scratch  and may reach  a 
different conclusion from the investigator. This may be because additional evidence has 
been obtained (which it was in this case) and/or because our ombudsmen have more 
experience. This process was explained  in the documentation Mrs W was sent when we 
received her complaint. I am sorry if Mrs Ws confidence in our service  has been  affected by 
this, but our process  is such  that the complaint is reassessed completely  at each stage.
It has been questioned why SAI allowed Mrs W to go ahead with completely recovering the 
roof when it could  have  told her to have some  further localised investigations done. It has 
been implied that had this happened, she wouldnt have had the work done. I think  SAI 
made it clear  the cause  of damage report  provided didnt actually confirm that the cause of 
damage was and wasnt enough for it to accept  any liability for the damage to Mrs Ws roof 
when it said that and by arranging for its own experts to attend to assess  the roof. 
It is not for an insurer to tell a policyholder what they can and cant do. It is also clear that 
Mrs W had decided to have the roof replaced  before SAI even had the opportunity to 
consider the claim. In addition, Mrs W has said another  quote was discounted because the 
company couldnt  do the work  quickly enough. Given Mrs Ws representative has maintained 
the entire roof covering needed to be stripped,  I am not persuaded that even if SAI had tried 
to stop Mrs W from the course of action she had decided on, it would  have worked. 
It has been suggested that for the remainder of the roof to be assessed from the interior,  the 
felt would have  had to be stripped out because it would obscure the roofing timbers. Given  
roofing felt is installed on the outside  of the rafters,  the only part of the roof it would have  
obscured was the lats/battens and the underside of the tiles. As such, I am not persuaded by 
this submission. I am satisfied that if there  had been other areas  of damage to the roof there  
would have been signs of that damage and invasive  further investigations into the condition  
of the roof were not needed. If Mrs W wanted a full roof survey  done, it would have been for 
her to bear the cost of it. 
Mrs Ws representative has confirmed that he is civil engineer.  He has questioned why his 
submissions have not been accepted as an expert opinion. Firstly, the representative hadnt 
presented himself as a qualified individual and his submissions were not on business  
letterheaded paper  as I would expect if he was putting forward his opinion as expert. 
However, even had he done  so, given his personal relationship with Mrs W and the fact he is 
representing her, any submissions from him could not be taken as independent. That said, 
I did consider his submissions in detail, but I am also required to consider the other  evidence  
available  the evidence is then weighed up, during which process  I will also use my own 
knowledge and experience of such matters. 
I have considered the further comments about  the repairs needed and why Mrs Ws 
representative still feels the entire  roof needed replacing rather than a localised repair being 
done. I am still not persuaded there  was any reason  a localised repair could not have been  
completed. Whilst I note that some of the tiles were  damaged when the entire roof was 
stripped, given these  tiles were not expected to be reused, it is possible the removal  of the 
tiles was not undertaken as carefully  as it would have been if they needed  to be reused. I 
dont think the fact that some tiles being damaged  in the circumstances means a localised 
repair reusing the existing  undamaged  tiles wouldnt  have been possible. 
Mrs Ws representative has suggested  that the offer made by SAI should be increased as 
I have said that a localised investigation  of the roof would usually have been done. He has 
Ref: DRN27065307assumed Mrs W would have been  charged  for such an investigation. It is possible an 
investigation would have been charged for, but equally, as it would only have involved 
removing a few tiles, it is possible it would not have been if Mrs W had gone ahead  with 
repairs with that contractor. I dont think it would be reasonable to ask SAI to pay for 
investigations that werent done,  and which may not have incurred a cost if they had been.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as the offers made by 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc are fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. If 
Mrs W wishes to accept the offers,  she should contact St Andrews Insurance Plc directly. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2706530