K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Argos Limited  (Argos) are charging interest on credit  they provided  but 
that they failed  to provide  a statement to remind him of the amount due.
background
Mr J made  purchases from Argos on 6 and 7 April 2017. But when Argos sent his statement 
to him on 11 April it was returned  to them  as undeliverable  and Argos therefore put a block  
on further statements  being sent until theyd  heard  from the account holder to confirm  the 
correct address. 
Mr J said that as he didnt  receive  a statement  to prompt  him to pay on time, and tell him 
what to pay, he missed the payment  and was charged interest.  He thought  Argos  should 
therefore waive the interest.
But Argos  didnt agree. They said it was Mr Js responsibility to make payments on time and 
to tell them if he didnt  receive statements. And they said it was clear hed know  there  would 
be interest if he didnt make a payment.
So Mr J referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  took a look at the evidence. 
He noted that Mr J hadnt changed address; hed lived in the same place since his account 
was opened, so he couldnt  understand why the statement  was returned undelivered. He 
didnt think the business had done  enough  to try to get the statement to Mr J. They hadnt 
called or emailed and hadnt attempted to resend the letter  and he thought,  if they had, it 
was most likely Mr J wouldve cleared the balance and had no interest to pay. So the 
adjudicator thought the fairest solution was for Argos to refund the interest charged on Mr Js 
buy now, pay later purchases and to refund any charges or fees or additional interest that 
may have  been  levied as a result of the purchases  made in early April.
But Argos  didnt agree. They said they wouldnt chase an up-to-date customer for an 
address change and that accurate payments  on the account would suggest Mr J was aware 
of the balance and the minimum payment required.  They explained that Mr J had seen the 
terms and conditions and would have been aware of when interest was charged  on 
purchases and they stressed it was his responsibility  to make payments on time. So they 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J kept his account up to date and I can understand he relied  on the regular  statement  to 
prompt him to make  payments to his account.  I think its more than likely that, when the 
Ref: DRN22628602statement wasnt sent to him, the omission  led him to miss a payment. There  seems no 
reason why the statement  wouldnt  be delivered as Mr J hasnt changed address, so it 
wouldnt be fair to expect him to be anticipating the need to redirect his post.
Mr J appears  to have been  keeping his account  up to date and I therefore think  its most 
likely, that if he received the statement  to prompt a payment, he wouldve paid for the buy 
now pay later items in full, so he didnt attract interest. 
Argos has explained that it only chases address changes for customers  who arent  up-to-
date and I think this has disadvantaged Mr J. If theyd called or emailed to explain they had 
been unable  to deliver a statement  I think its likely  the charges Mr J faced could have been 
avoided.
So I think Argos should refund the interest  and any charges to rectify the situation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Argos  Limited to refund the 
buy now pay later interest that was charged on the items purchased and refund any charges, 
fees or additional  interest relating to these transactions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2262860