K821x#15complaint
Miss P has complained  about  four logbook loans  which were provided to her by Greenlight  
Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma). She says the loans  were unaffordable as the affordability  
assessment was based on her partners income. Shes also said that Varoomas financial 
interest in her car has prevented her insurance  company from settling a claim.
background
Miss P was provided with an initial logbook loan of £2,000 in August 2016. The loan had a 
36 month term. Miss P was then given a further  two logbook loans over the following six 
months. All three loans ran concurrently. Miss Ps borrowing history is as follows:  
Loan Amount Date taken Total to be repaid Repayment Term Cumulative repayment
1 £1,500 January 2015 £2,550.00 £212.50 12 months £212.50
2 £600 February 2015 £1,050.00 £87.50 12 months £300.00
3 £1,000 March 2015 £2,430.00 £101.25 24 months £313.75 *
4 £3,500 June 2015 £10,850.04 £301.39 36 months £301.39 *
* funds  from loan three cleared  balance on loan two and funds from loan four cleared 
balances on loans one and three  
Our investigator looked at Miss Ps complaint and concluded Miss P shouldnt have been 
provided with any of her loans. He also thought that Varooma had failed to treat Miss P fairly 
and reasonably when it was told about  its interest in her car preventing her insurance claim 
being paid. So our investigator  upheld  Miss Ps complaint and said that Varooma should put 
things right. Varooma disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. As a result,  the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
the legal and regulatory framework
Varooma provided  Miss P with these loans when it was authorised  by the Financial Conduct  
Authority. This meant that it was subject  to the FCA rules and regulations.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ref: DRN20579312the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  and guidance which apply to logbook loan providers like Varooma 
when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from the following extracts,  
the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs ILG on many  
occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
Ref: DRN20579313under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Miss Ps loans were  provided after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came  into force 
on 6 April 2007. Section  140A sets out circumstances where the court  may determine that 
the relationship  between  a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
Ref: DRN20579314debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
Ref: DRN20579315(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
other relevant publications  
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised lenders have to adhere to. But the 
rules and guidance represent  a minimum standard for firms. And Im also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards,  relevant  codes of practice,  and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
oa high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
ofirms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  
may not be able to afford.
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor  lending:
othe proportion  of loan repayments  that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability  on the part of the borrowers  is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
Ref: DRN20579316the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are three overarching questions I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did Varooma, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Miss P would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss P wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Varooma  ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Ps 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  further loans?
Did Varooma act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Varooma didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Miss P and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will then go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN20579317Did Varooma, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Miss P would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place when Varooma lent to Miss P required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Miss P could afford to repay her loans in a sustainable manner. This 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or affordability check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Varooma had to think  about 
whether repaying  the loan sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences  for 
Miss P. In other words, it wasnt enough  for Varooma to think  only about  the likelihood  that it 
would get its money  back without considering  the impact of repayment on Miss P herself.  
The loans being secured  on Miss Ps car didnt alter, lessen or dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended period); 
and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were Varoomas checks reasonable and proportionate?
For loan one, Varooma  appears to have gone  through an income  and expenditure form with 
Miss P. As I understand it, Miss P was recorded  as having a monthly  income of £2,100.00 
and monthly expenditure of £1,115. Varooma says the income  and expenditure information  
showed that Miss P had a monthly disposable income  of £985 which meant  that Miss P 
could easily  afford the monthly payments of £212.50. Varoomas response also appears to 
suggest that it had sight  of Miss Ps bank statements, although  its unclear  as to whether it 
did because it hasnt  provided copies. 
Ref: DRN20579318Ive carefully thought  about what Varooma did. And Im mindful  that CONC makes it clear  
that the extent  to which a lenders checks are proportionate  will depend on the type of credit, 
the associated  cost and the risks to the borrower bearing in mind  their financial situation. 
So bearing all of this in mind, in my view, a less detailed affordability assessment, without 
the need for verification, is far more likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate in 
circumstances where  the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the consumers financial 
situation is stable  and they will be indebted for a relatively short period. 
But, in circumstances  where a customers finances  may be less stable (for example where  
they are having  trouble accessing  mainstream  credit) and there  is the potential  for the 
borrower losing their car if they run into difficulty making payments, I think its far more likely 
that any affordability assessment would need  to be more detailed and contain  a greater 
degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, Im concerned that Varooma doesnt appear to have  taken any steps to verify 
(or at least it hasnt shown  that it did) the income and expenditure information provided.  
Especially as Id have to question  why Varooma thought Miss P would need  to borrow  
£1,500.00 at such a high rate of interest if she genuinely had £985.00 a month available  to 
her in disposable income. Varooma might  have thought that it didnt need to do this and that 
a light touch check was proportionate because  Miss Ps car provided  security.  But I dont 
think that this was enough to constitute  a borrower  focused assessment. And I dont see how 
this considers the impact of the repayments on Miss P  especially in light of what, at face 
value at least, appears to have been  an overoptimistic income and expenditure declaration.  
As Varooma failed  to verify Miss Ps actual monthly  expenditure for loan one and the 
subsequent ones even though she kept coming  back for further expensive loans, after shed 
missed payments on her existing loans, I dont think the checks  it carried out before 
providing any of these loans were  fair, reasonable or proportionate.
Would proportionate checks on Miss Ps loans have indicated to Varooma that she would  
have been unable to repay her loans in a sustainable manner?
Ive already explained that I think a proportionate check  for loan one wouldve  involved 
actually verifying Miss Ps normal monthly outgoings  and regular  financial commitments.  And 
as the lending continued, I wouldve expected Varooma to have found  out more  about why 
Miss P kept having to come back for further loans despite what was being declared  
indicating she had no need for such expensive  borrowing.
As Varooma didnt  carry out proportionate checks for these loans, I cant  say for sure what  
proportionate checks would most  likely have shown.  So I need to decide whether it is more  
likely than not that fair, reasonable  and proportionate affordability checks  wouldve  told 
Varooma that it was unfair to offer these  loans to Miss P.
To help us understand for ourselves what Varooma  would more  likely than not have 
discovered if it had completed  reasonable and proportionate checks  on Miss Ps loans, we 
asked Miss P to provide  us with her bank statements.  
Having carefully considered the information, I think that a detailed review  of Miss Ps 
financial circumstances before loan one would  have shown that she wasnt employed. Her 
income was wholly made up of benefits  and she didnt receive  anywhere  near £2,100.00  a 
month. Miss Ps bank statements also show that she was struggling  financially and 
Ref: DRN20579319borrowing from a number  of different lenders  in an attempt  to repay existing creditors and 
make ends meet. Even then this wasnt enough as Miss P had a number of returned direct 
debits because she didnt  have enough  funds to meet the payments. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss P would not have been able to make the 
loan repayments  to loan one without  undue difficulty or the need to borrow further. And, in 
these circumstances,  I find that reasonable and proportionate checks  would  more  likely than 
not have alerted Varooma  to the fact that Miss P wouldnt be able to sustainably make  the 
repayments to loan one. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Varooma ought  reasonably to have  realised it was increasing Miss Ps indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
loans?
For the sake of completeness, I think that its also helpful for me to explain that even though  
I did do so, I dont think that it was necessary for me to have recreated affordability checks 
for loans  two, three and four. I say this because  in addition to assessing the affordability of 
each individual  loan provided to Miss P by Varooma,  I also think its fair and reasonable to 
look at the overall  pattern of lending.  
Im mindful here that the relevant rules  and guidance  as summarised  in the earlier part of 
this decision make it clear that a lender  shouldnt  continue lending  where  the loans are 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or its apparent that the customer  may be 
experiencing financial difficulties. And I think by loan two, Varooma ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  realised that Miss Ps loans had become unsustainable  or otherwise 
harmful. 
The factors  that lead me to conclude  that Varooma ought to have realised the loans  from 
loan two were unsustainable or otherwise harmful are:
the close  proximity  of these loans being  taken out: 
oloan two was taken the day after Miss P made her first payment to loan one. 
oloan three  was taken  the day after Miss P made  her first payment  to loan two. 
oloan four was provided while Miss P was in arrears on loans one and three.
the increasing number  of returned  direct  debit fees on Miss Ps account;
the total amount  Miss P owed  Varooma  increased from £2,550.00 (when  she was 
provided with loan one) to £10,850.04 (when she was provided with loan four) in the 
space of five months. This was an increase of over 400% in a very short period.
All of the above were clear  indicators  of Miss P being in a difficult  financial position.  The 
overall pattern  of lending, where  Miss P was advanced funds shortly  after making payments 
or when  she was already in arrears, suggests that Miss P was having to borrow  further funds 
to cover the hole left in her finances  by making  payments to these loans. And bearing in 
mind Varoomas obligation to monitor Miss Ps repayment record  and offer assistance  
should it appear that she mightve been  experiencing  financial difficulties, I think  that 
Varooma shouldve offered assistance and/or a product  that would allow her to sustainably  
repay what she owed. But instead  of doing this, Varooma instead  kept lending  at high rates 
of interest and substantially increased  her overall  indebtedness. 
Ref: DRN205793110Indeed Varooma kept lending to Miss P until she was left in a position where shed been 
provided with just under £3,000 but was required to repay £10,850.04  at a time when she 
was clearly struggling. In these circumstances, I cant  see how Varooma could possibly  
argue that it was treating  Miss P positively and sympathetically or exercising forbearance. 
And I certainly dont  think that Varooma was treating Miss P fairly and reasonably. 
So I think that Varooma  ought fairly  and reasonably  to have realised that the loans from 
loans two onwards  were  unsustainable or otherwise  harmful for Miss P and were unfairly 
and excessively increasing her overall indebtedness. And so it shouldnt have provided 
these loans to Miss P.   
Did Miss P lose out as a result of Varoomas shortcomings in relation to these loans?
I think that Miss P did suffer adverse consequences  as a result  of Varooma unfairly giving 
her these loans. I think this is the case for two key reasons.
Firstly, these loans had the effect  of unfairly increasing and prolonging Miss Ps 
indebtedness to Varooma  by allowing her to take expensive credit over an extended period 
of time. These loans  were expensive. Ive already  spoken about the impact this had on her 
finances. And I think that the overall  cost of these  loans unfairly increased Miss Ps 
indebtedness when  her finances were  already at an adverse and precarious financial 
position.
Secondly, the number of these high-cost loans within such  a short  period of time is likely to 
have had implications  for Miss Ps ability to access mainstream credit.  The greater the 
presence of these loans  on Miss Ps credit  file  especially where they were  taken so quickly 
- the less likely Miss P was able to rehabilitate  her finances and regain access to 
mainstream credit. This is especially the case  when  bearing in mind  her other affordability 
issues.
In my view, Varooma  giving Miss P this many  loans (which it shouldnt  have done) over such 
extended terms at interest  rates normally reserved for short- term borrowing, placed  her in a 
position where she was unfairly trapped into taking further loans from Varooma as no-one 
else, other than similar  providers, would  lend to her. 
I think that, in these circumstances, Miss P had little choice  other  than to keep turning to 
Varooma and other similar providers for further  loans, because  she had little other real 
choice bearing  in mind  everything that had gone on previously. And, in my view,  Varooma 
took advantage of the situation.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided and whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case,  I think that Miss P lost out because Varooma 
unfairly gave her these  loans, which it ought  to have  realised were unsustainable, harmful  
and unaffordable for her. 
Did Varooma act unfairly or unreasonably  towards  Miss P in some other way?
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided and bearing in mind  Miss Ps reasons for 
complaining, I think there is a further issue for me to consider when deciding  whether 
Varooma acted unfairly or unreasonably to Miss P in some other way. This is in relation to 
Ref: DRN205793111how Varooma addressed  Miss Ps concerns  about  its financial interest  in her vehicle holding 
up her insurance claim.
The information Ive seen suggests  that Miss P contacted Varooma about her insurance  
claim being held up because of its financial interest in her vehicle in January 2019. As I 
understand it Miss P asked Varooma to consider waiving its right under the Bill of Sale at 
this time, given she now didnt have a car and she was reliant  on having a car to get her 2 
autistic children to appointments.  She also said this was having an impact on her own 
health.  
I cant see that Varooma  ever properly responded to this matter, or that it took any steps to 
resolve things with the insurer. Indeed  it only appears to have provided a settlement  figure  to 
clear the loan and didnt  even cover Miss Ps concerns in relation  to this when it issued its 
final response to Miss Ps affordability  complaint. I dont think  that it was fair and reasonable 
to deal with Miss Ps obvious anxiety about her insurance claim in the way that Varooma did. 
Especially in circumstances where Varooma knew that Miss Ps childrens conditions meant 
that she was reliant on her car. 
So having  carefully thought about  everything, I also think that Varooma acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably towards  Miss P in some other way. And I think that it needs to put things right 
in relation to this too.    
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on pages 
six and seven of this decision, I find that:
Varooma didnt complete reasonable and proportionate  checks  on Miss P to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay  her logbook  loans in a sustainable way;
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown 
Varooma that Miss P would not have been able to repay these  loans in a sustainable 
way; 
in any event,  the overall  pattern of lending ought  fairly and reasonably  to have alerted 
Varooma to the fact that the loans from loans two onwards were  unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful for Miss P and that they were unfairly  and excessively increasing 
her overall indebtedness;
 
Miss P lost out as a result of having been  provided with these loans;  
Varooma also acted unfairly  and unreasonably  towards Miss P in some other way.
These findings lead me to conclude that Varooma unfairly and unreasonably provided      
Miss P with all of these  loans and that she lost out as a result.  So Varooma needs to put 
things right for Miss P.
fair compensation  what  Varooma needs  to do to put things right for Miss P
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
Ref: DRN205793112wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Varooma putting      
Miss P in the position  shed now be in if she hadnt  been given these  loans.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Miss P 
was given the loans in question and she used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant 
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Miss P back in the 
position she would be in if she hadnt  been  given these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Varooma to put things right in the 
following way.
interest and charges on the loans Miss P shouldnt  have been given
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, Varooma continually lending  to Miss P left her in 
a position where  she wasnt  able to settle  her debts. This was because  Miss P kept having  to 
find additional funds  to pay the (increasing)  interest  and charges on her Varooma loans. And 
then she had to borrow again from Varooma as making the payments was preventing  her 
from meeting her other  commitments, which meant  she incurred more  interest  and charges 
when she did this. As Varooma provided these  loans  when  it shouldnt  have I think  that it 
needs to refund the interest and charges Miss P paid.
I think that the fairest way to ensure  that Miss P is refunded any interest and charges that 
she may have paid is to add the total amount  of money she received as a result of being  
provided with all of her loans together. Varooma should then deduct any payments Miss P 
made from this amount.  
Varooma should  treat any payments made after the payments Miss P made  reached the 
total amount of the money  she received, if there  were any, as overpayments. And to start 
with, I think that Varooma  should refund any such overpayments  as they will represent  the 
interest Miss P unfairly paid as a result of being given her loans.
Im also mindful that Miss P lost the use of the funds she used to pay the interest and 
charges, I now think that Varooma needs to refund to her. As Miss P lost the use of these 
funds, I think that she should be compensated for this. We normally ask a business to pay 
8% simple  interest where a consumer hasnt  had the use of funds because its actions 
resulted in something having gone wrong. 
Bearing in mind my conclusions in the paragraph above, I see no reason to depart from our 
usual approach here and I think that awarding  8% per year simple interest, on the interest 
and charges that were paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
So Varooma  should pay Miss P 8% per year simple  interest on the interest  and charges she 
paid from the date those charges were paid,  if they were, to the date it settles  Miss Ps 
complaint.
Miss Ps credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
Ref: DRN205793113been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
But Im upholding  Miss Ps complaint about  loans two, three and four because I think  that 
what had happened  by this stage ought  fairly  and reasonably to have led Varooma to realise 
that it was increasing  Miss Ps indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or harmful in 
some other way. I explained that there were two main adverse consequences of Varooma 
having given Miss P so many loans. Firstly  it caused  her to pay an excessive amount of 
interest. And Ive already  explained how Miss P should be compensated for this.
I also explained that the number of loans is likely to have had implications for Miss Ps ability 
to access mainstream credit. The greater the presence of these loans on Miss Ps credit  file 
the less likely Miss P was able to rehabilitate her finances and regain access  to mainstream 
credit. And I think my direction in relation to Miss Ps credit  file needs to reflect  this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Miss Ps credit  
history and creditworthiness  so a lender can make an informed decision on whether lend to 
her, I think that the mere presence of this many  loans, of this type, on Miss Ps credit file, in 
itself, constitutes adverse  information. And I think that this many  high-cost loans appearing 
on Miss Ps credit file is likely to continue unfairly adversely affecting Miss P going forwards.  
In these circumstances, I think that its fair and reasonable for Varooma to remove all 
reference to loans two, three and four from Miss Ps credit file, as the number of loans in 
itself is adverse information.  
the Bill of Sale
As Varooma only has a Bill of Sale on Miss Ps vehicle because  it unfairly  and unreasonably 
provided her with these  loans, it should also remove the Bill of Sale and any other charge it 
might have over Miss Ps vehicle. 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Varooma acting  unfairly and unreasonably 
towards Miss P caused  
As well as unwinding any wrongdoing caused  by the irresponsibly lent loans, I also have the 
power to make an award to reflect the emotional  and practical impact Varoomas  actions  
have had.
Our website  contains  detailed  examples of distress and inconvenience  awards  we might 
make and the reasons why might  make them. These  are set out in different categories and 
levels  to show the range of awards  we make. Ive carefully considered  whether Varooma 
should make  an additional  payment to Miss P with reference to these distress  and 
inconvenience awards and categories.
Ive already explained why I think that Varooma acted unfairly and unreasonably  towards  
Miss P when it didnt  really react to her correspondence regarding the insurance claim. 
Indeed all Varooma  really  did was ask Miss P pay a considerable  amount of money  which  
my investigation has concluded she had no means  of repaying  in order to settle  the loan 
and therefore  ending its financial interest  in her vehicle, at a time where she was already  
having to cope with being unable to get her children to where they needed  to be. And I cant 
see that Varooma  did anything  to take any of this into account.
Ref: DRN205793114Having considered all of this in the round, I think that Varoomas actions while  failing to 
address Miss Ps concerns about  the insurance  claim  being  held up caused Miss P a 
moderate amount  of distress,  inconvenience,  anxiety and suffering.
Our website  sets out a compensation range of up to £500 where a consumer has suffered 
moderate distress and inconvenience. Bearing in mind all of the circumstances, I think an 
award at the mid-range  of this scale is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. So having carefully considered everything, given the particular circumstances of    
Miss Ps complaint, Im awarding Miss P £200  for the distress  and inconvenience that 
Varoomas actions in acting unfairly and unreasonably towards her caused.
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of        
Miss Ps complaint for Varooma to put things right by:
adding up the total amount of money  Miss P received as a result  of being given these 
loans. The payments Miss P made (to her loans)  should be deducted from this 
amount. Any payments  made, if any, after the total repaid exceeds the amount    
Miss P was given  should be treated as overpayments and refunded  to her; 
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments,  if there were any, from 
the date they were  paid by Miss P to the date of settlement;
removing the Bill of Sale on Miss Ps vehicle
removing any adverse information placed on Miss Ps credit file because  of loan one;
removing all reference to loans two, three and four from Miss Ps credit file;
paying Miss P a sum £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it acting unfairly 
and/or unreasonably  towards Miss P caused her. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma 
must give Miss P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Ps complaint about Greenlight Credit  Ltd 
and telling it to pay Miss P compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019. 
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2057931