K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited has declined  a claim hes made  on his 
private medical insurance policy. 
background
Mr M and his son, who I will refer to as D, are beneficiaries of a group  private  medical 
insurance scheme. Mr M made a claim on his policy for tests and treatment abroad for his 
son. Mr M has additional travel cover  but not extended cover  for treatment outside the UK. 
D has a complex medical history and has been  tested extensively for various  conditions  and 
symptoms. Mr M says D needed consultations  and treatment in the USA. 
He has provided  lots of correspondence from Ds treating consultants. This includes 
correspondence from a consultant paediatrician, Dr M, who confirms  that D has been 
referred to the USA for diagnosis  and treatment of a condition called Pandas/Pans. The 
letter goes on to say: 
Pandas/Pans treatment has started only recently  in the UK and we do not currently 
have the experience in the UK of dealing with complex cases. Whereas Pandas/Pans 
experts in the USA have been  researching and treating patients for almost two 
decades.  
AXA declined to cover  the cost of the consultations  and tests D had because they had been 
carried out abroad. They say this is excluded under the policy. Mr M referred AXA to 
previous decisions  made  by our service but this didnt change their thoughts  about declining  
the claim.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and asked Mr M to get further information 
from Dr M about the need  to refer D to a consultant overseas. Mr M provided  further  
information about the reasons and this was reviewed by AXAs medical  officer. In summary,  
this didnt change  AXAs thoughts because: 
There are difference between clinical practices in the UK and the USA as clinicians  in 
the USA can work independently, without peer support or clinical review 
Initially Dr M said the condition was curable  but now said it was a complex case
They raised concerns  about one of the consultants in the USA as they thought  he 
was a self-appointed  expert who wasnt recognised by insurers in the USA
 
An unproven  treatment was being  recommended  for D which didnt have a UK 
equivalent.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he didnt think  it was unreasonable  for AXA to 
rely on the exclusion for treatment abroad. Mr M obtained another  report  from Dr M but this 
didnt change the investigators  thoughts. So Mr M asked an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN27859602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr M has made a number  of claims in relation to treatment for D, some  of 
which may have been rejected by AXA. This decision relates to Mr Ms claim for Ds 
treatment abroad.  So Im not considering any of the other issues  hes referred to during  the 
course of this complaint, as they will need  to be dealt with as a separate complaint/s.   
the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The relevant  policy term in the private medical  insurance policy  says:
We do not cover any costs for treatment you receive  outside the UK or for treatment 
if you live outside the UK.
It goes on to say:
We cover  drugs, treatment and surgery that have been proven to be effective and 
have been approved or licensed by a recognised  body. Like most health insurers, 
this means we do not cover unproven or experimental treatment
For a treatment to be covered, it must  have:
Been  shown to be effective through an appropriate clinical trial and 
assessment, with the results published  in authoritative medical journals, or 
Been  approved by NICE as safe and effective for the specific  purpose it is to 
be used for
If the treatment is a drug, the drug must  be
Licensed for use by the European Medicines Agency or the Medicines and 
Healthcare products  Regulation Agency; and 
Used according to that licence.  
The additional travel  cover policy terms say: 
We will not cover
(i) Treatment received on an overseas journey if the insured member travelled to 
seek medical treatment or for treatment on an overseas  journey  if the insured 
member knew  that such treatment would be needed at some point in the 
course of the overseas treatment 
(vii) Any charges  where the insured member travelled outside the United  Kingdom  
to obtain treatment (whether or not that was the only reason) or travelled 
against medical advice. 
Ref: DRN27859603has the claim been declined unfairly? 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because I dont think AXA has treated him unfairly by 
declining the claim.  I say that because: 
The policy excludes treatment abroad  and travelling abroad to obtain or seek  
treatment. So I dont  think its unreasonable for AXA to rely on that exclusion;
I dont think its fair to direct AXA to step outside the policy  terms Ive outlined above 
in the circumstances of this case.  Im not satisfied that Dr Ms reports  demonstrate  a 
persuasive reason  for Ds referral to the USA. I note that, according to Dr Ms latest 
letter, there is no firm diagnosis yet. And, whilst he has outlined that D presents as a 
complex case, he says treatment options  are available  in the UK;
AXA has raised concerns about the level of information known about Panda/Pandas, 
the expertise of the clinicians  in the USA and whether the treatment is conventional 
and proven. I note Dr M also explained theres  a lack of knowledge  about  the 
condition in the UK, evidenced by limited  contribution to scientific literature. And he 
stated that the test D had, and other options  to investigate the condition, arent 
available in the UK. So I dont think the concerns AXA have raised are unreasonable  
or its fair to direct them to pay the claim;   
Mr M has referred to previous decisions made  by our service. But every  case  is 
different and I need to take into account the specific circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive outlined above I dont  think  its unreasonable or unfair for AXA to 
decline the claim. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2785960