K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (Santander), then trading as Abbey National,  mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 1991. The 
policy covered Mr B if he wasnt able to work  because of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.
Mr and Mrs B complain  that they werent  told by the adviser they spoke to at the time that 
there was a three month  waiting period  for claims made on the policy  before  any benefits 
would be paid. They say they only became aware  of this policy condition when Mr B tried to 
make a claim for unemployment some years after the policy  had been sold to them. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im upholding it for the 
reason that Ill now explain.
This PPI policy was sold to Mr and Mrs B in a branch.  And Santander recommended the 
policy to Mr and Mrs B, so it needed  to ensure  that it was suitable for them, given their 
circumstances at the time.
Santander has provided a copy of the leaflet that they say Mr and Mrs B would  have been  
given at the time of this sale. And I can see that in this leaflet  theres mention of the fact that 
the first twelve weeks of each period of disability  or unemployment are not covered by the 
policy.
I think this exclusion would have  been of importance  to Mr and Mrs B. This is because  
Mr and Mrs B say that, other than Mrs Bs earnings from her part-time  job, they wouldnt 
have had any means of paying their mortgage if Mr B had been unable  to work. In these 
circumstances, I think  they would have struggled to keep up their mortgage payments  during 
this twelve week waiting  period before the policy paid out. 
So from the information available to me, I dont think the PPI policy which  Santander 
recommended to Mr and Mrs B was suitable for their particular circumstances at the time.  It 
didnt give them the level of security that they might  reasonably have expected it to do if 
things went wrong and Mr B was unable to work.
I think that Santander needed to highlight this exclusion to Mr and Mrs B and explain the 
potential affect  it might  have on them if they needed to make  a claim. But I havent seen any 
compelling evidence  to make me think that Mr and Mrs B are mistaken in saying the 
Santander adviser they spoke to didnt do this. And given the potential importance of this 
Ref: DRN27269172exclusion to them, I dont  think  the information  about  it contained  in the policy leaflet they 
received was sufficiently  prominent. I think it could easily have  been  missed, given all the 
other information and paperwork they would have received at the time about their mortgage.  
So I dont  think the PPI policy recommended to Mr and Mrs B was suitable for them.  And I 
dont think they would  still have wanted to take the policy out if theyd been fully aware of the 
impact of this exclusion on them if Mr B made a claim. I think its likely that theyd either have 
decided not to take PPI at all, or looked for a PPI policy offered by another  provider which 
more closely met their needs.  
So I think that Mr and Mrs B have lost out because Santander didnt ensure that the PPI 
policy it sold them was suitable for their needs.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. So Santander  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes Mr and Mrs B.
If Santander has paid Mr and Mrs B compensation  for any excess  commission and profit 
share it received  for the sale of the policy, it can also take off what they received from the 
amount it owes Mr and Mrs B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2726917