K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor  insurance 
policy and didnt reinstate it. Hes also unhappy about the amount he had to pay to settle  his 
account.
All references to Advantage include its agents.
background
In February 2018  Mr A contacted Advantage  to query why his motor insurance policy had 
been cancelled.  Advantage  told him that it had tried to contact him about a claim (brought  by 
another driver) in June  2017. His policy was due to run until June 2018, but it was cancelled  
in December 2017, because he hadnt  co-operated  with Advantage in relation to the claim.  It 
said that he needed to pay the outstanding  premiums and a cancellation fee, amounting to a 
total of £156.82.
Mr A disputed that his vehicle had been  involved in an accident.  He said he hadnt received 
any contact regarding the claim. Advantage told him it had sent him letters, had tried to call 
him and instructed accident investigators  to contact him as well. It had then sent a letter and 
an email advising that, if it didnt hear back from him, the policy  would be cancelled. As no 
contact was made, the policy  was cancelled. 
Mr A brought his complaint to our service.  He said he hadnt received any contact from 
Advantage regarding an accident, which he denied happening. He had provided Advantage 
with a new phone number, but he hadnt received any calls. It also hadnt contacted  him by 
email. He said Advantage had not informed  him that the policy had been cancelled in 
December 2017.  He got a letter about  it at the end of January 2018. And Advantage had 
taken a direct debit payment in January 2018  even  though the policy  had ended in 
December 2017.  
Mr A said Advantage  persuaded  him to pay over £150 to reinstate the policy but it didnt do 
so. When he first took out his policy with Advantage in 2016,  he paid a deposit  upfront and 
was told it would be refunded to him when the contract finished, but it was never returned to 
him.
Mr A said motor insurance was now too expensive for him to afford  because  the accident 
had been placed on the claims  database.  He was seeking compensation for travel expenses 
and losing shift work.  And he was also claiming his deposit and one months  payment that 
was wrongly taken from his account  in January 2018, together with the cancellation payment 
of over £150. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 February  2020  where I explained why I didnt intend  to 
uphold Mr As complaint.  In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Id like to reassure Mr A that Ive carefully  considered all his complaint points alongside the 
information available to me, this includes recordings of his telephone  conversations with 
Advantage. But based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend  to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN28270002Advantage had an obligation to act honestly, fairly,  professionally and in Mr As best 
interests. 
cancelling the policy
The policy terms state that Advantage would never cancel the policy  without a valid reason 
for doing so. It lists several valid reasons for cancelling including:
Where you are required in accordance with the terms of this policy booklet to co-operate  
with us or your insurer, or send us or your insurer  information or documentation and you fail 
to do so in a way that materially affects  your insurers ability to process your policy,  a claim, 
or ability to defend their interests.
Advantage says it cancelled  Mr As policy because he wasnt  co-operating  with its 
investigation into a claim made by the driver of another vehicle. It says it made  multiple 
attempts to contact  Mr A by letter, phone and through  accident investigators. 
I appreciate that Mr A disputes  that the accident took place. But what I need to consider is 
whether Advantage acted fairly in handling  the claim and cancelling the policy.
Advantage has sent us copies of correspondence from the other drivers insurer, which 
includes the other drivers  allegations  that Mr As vehicle was involved in the accident.  I can 
see that Advantage sent several  letters to Mr A asking him to complete an accident  report  
form. Theres also a letter from the accident investigators which says it had written to Mr A 
but had received no response.  They had tried to speak to Mr A on the telephone number 
provided, but it failed  to connect, and they couldnt  find another phone  number for him. They 
had visited Mr As flat, but he wasnt there, so theyd left their contact details but hadnt  
received a response.
Advantage says it tried to contact Mr A by telephone. But the telephone  number showing on 
the paperwork from when  Mr A first took out the policy is incorrect by one digit. Advantage 
says Mr A took out the policy online via a comparison  website and would  have entered his 
contact information  himself. So, I dont think Advantage was responsible  for the number 
being incorrect.
In December 2017 Advantage sent a letter to Mr A which said it had made several attempts 
to contact him in relation to the alleged incident  of June 2017. As he had not responded, it 
had no alternative  other than to settle  the third party claim in full, as a fault claim. It sent 
further letters in December 2017 and January  2018 regarding the cancellation.
Advantages records show that three  emails were  sent to Mr A in December 2017  and 
January 2018,  to prompt him to look at letters regarding  the cancellation on its online portal.
Mr A has complained that Advantage  didnt mention the alleged  accident to him when  he 
called to renew his policy.  But Advantages records show that the telephone conversation 
about the renewal  of Mr As policy took place  eleven  days  before the alleged incident.
Having considered the above, I think Advantage made sufficient attempts  to make Mr A 
aware of the claim and it acted reasonably when it decided to settle it. It couldnt defend  the 
claim in court without  any information from Mr A. I also think  it was fair for Advantage to 
cancel Mr As policy, because this was in line with the terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN28270003payments
Mr A is unhappy that Advantage  took a direct  payment from him in January 2018,  when the 
policy was cancelled in December 2017. Hes also questioned why he was told to pay over 
£150 to settle  the account.
Advantage wrote to Mr A on 20 December 2017  to let him know  that his policy would be 
cancelled in 7 days. But it didnt process the cancellation until 4 January  2018, to give Mr A 
extra time to get in touch. As he didnt  contact Advantage, it went ahead with the 
cancellation, backdating it until 27 December 2017. At that point, Advantage had already 
applied for Mr As direct debit payment which was due on 8 January 2018.
Im satisfied the January direct debit  payment  had been taken into account  in the calculation 
of what Mr A needed to pay to settle  the account.  I say this because  the payment schedule  
Advantage sent in Mr A in June 2017  shows a first payment of £60.76  for June 2017, 
followed by 10 monthly instalments  of £49.10 (from July 2017 to April 2018). This means that 
payments up to and including  January 2018  totalled £404.46. And the breakdown of charges 
issued on 4 January  2018  shows total Direct  Debit instalments paid by you of £404.46. 
This letter also shows that Mr A needed to pay £156.82 to settle his account.
The policy terms state that No refund  of premium will be provided if you have  made a claim,  
or if one has been  made against you, during the period  of insurance and if you are paying by 
instalments, you will have  to pay the balance of the annual premium and our cancellation fee 
of £45 will still be payable.
The breakdown of charges show that Mr A was charged the full premium  and a cancellation 
charge of £45. This is in line with the terms of the policy. So, I think it was fair for Advantage 
to tell Mr A he needed to pay £156.82  to settle  the account.
reinstatement of policy
Mr A says Advantage  told him it would  reinstate  his policy if he settled the account. Ive 
listened to recordings  of Mr As conversations with Advantage in February 2018. Mr A was 
told that it couldnt reinstate his policy, but it could put him through to the sales team to give 
a quote for a new policy if he paid the outstanding balance. He was told that he couldnt  be 
given a quote for a new policy until hed paid the balance  in full. But if he was unable to do 
this, Advantage  could  set up a payment plan and he could look to get insurance  elsewhere. 
After Mr A settled the account, he was put through to the sales team,  where a member  of 
staff went through  his details. He was then told that based on the information given, 
Advantage was unable  to give Mr A a competitive quote. He was advised to go to a 
comparison website or another  insurer to get insurance elsewhere.  
I think Advantage gave  him the correct  information when it told him he would need to settle  
the account before he could have a new Advantage policy.  Its unfortunate that it couldnt  
give him a quote  for a new policy, once hed paid the outstanding balance.  But I dont think  
Advantage has acted  unfairly, because it made him aware that he had the option to agree a 
payment arrangement and to seek insurance  elsewhere, before he settled the account.
Ref: DRN28270004Deposit
Mr A says that when  he took out the policy in 2016,  he was told it would be refunded to him 
at the end of the policy. He says he was told his initial deposit still stood when he renewed 
his policy. 
Advantage says it didnt  tell Mr A that there  was a refundable  deposit. He took out the policy 
online via a comparison website, so it couldnt  have misadvised him over the phone. He did 
call Advantage in June 2016  and again in June 2017, after his policy had automatically 
renewed. 
Ive listened to both calls and theres  no mention of a refundable deposit. This also isnt 
showing in any of the paperwork Ive seen. This includes a letter  from when Mr A first took 
out the policy which details the policy costs and his payment  plan. It says that as Mr A had 
already paid the first instalment, the remaining 11 instalments would be taken by direct debit. 
So, I dont think Advantage is likely to have told Mr A that he would be refunded a deposit 
when his insurance ended.
claims database
Advantage has a duty to record accurate information on the database that can be viewed  by 
other insurers. It had to record the claim on Mr As policy as a fault  claim because it had to 
pay out for it and it couldnt recover its costs. As Ive said, I think  it acted reasonably  when it 
decided to settle the other drivers claim.  
I appreciate that Mr A has had difficulty finding  affordable insurance because  of the fault 
claim on the database. But again, I cant say Advantage  has done anything  wrong.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr A, but having  considered everything Ive seen so far, I 
havent found a reason to uphold  his complaint.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments  they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
responses
Mr A didnt respond with any further  comments or information.  Advantage  told us it had 
nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN28270005Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2827000