K821x#15Complaint
Mr Rs unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds  decision  to decline a claim made on his late 
fathers overdraft payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
Background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings on it, in my decision  of 
January 2020.  It included  the following:
Mr Rs father took out the policy to protect his bank overdraft in the event of his death or 
disability.
When Mr Rs father  died,  Mr R contacted to Aviva  to claim the death benefit on the policy.  
Aviva looked  into the claim and decided it shouldnt be paid. It noted that Mr Rs father  had 
moved his account  to another bank before he died, at which  point the policy came to an end. 
So, when Mr Rs father died, no benefit  was payable  under the policy.
Mr R didnt agree that the policy allowed Aviva to end the policy  when the account was 
moved. He referred  a complaint  to us and our adjudicator recommended it be upheld.
Because Aviva didnt  agree with the adjudicator, the case  was referred to me to review 
afresh.
 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold the complaint but only in part. Ill explain 
why.
Avivas claim  decision
The starting point  is the policy terms. Theres been some  confusion  during the complaint as 
to which  version of the policy  should  apply to the claim. Ill deal with each of the versions Ive 
seen in turn.
The first version provided by Aviva, and dated  November 2006,  says:
Life Cover
What is Covered
If a nominated person dies we will pay an amount  equal to the life insurance 
benefit at the date of death for all your agreements insured by us for which  the 
deceased was a nominated person at the date of their death
The word  agreement was defined by the policy as Your  Commercial Overdraft facility with 
[the bank].
Under the heading When Does  Your Policy  End,  the policy  said:
Ref: DRN24982822The cover provided by this policy and all benefit  payments will end, if any of the 
following happen:
Your agreement is closed.  
In summary,  the policy confirms 1) that the overdraft  facility must be with the specified bank 
and 2) that cover  will end when the agreements closed. As Mr Rs fathers  account  closed  
when he moved to another bank, Im satisfied his cover ended  at that point. That meant 
there was no cover  in place by the time he died a few years later.
After checking  with Aviva recently, it believes the version of the policy  terms that applies to 
this claim is one dated July 2009. The terms quoted  above are also included  in this later 
version.
For the sake of completeness, Ive also considered the version of the policy terms provided 
by Mr R. But I dont think this makes  a difference to the claim. Thats  because  that policy 
document says:
Life Benefits
If a nominated person dies we will pay an amount  equal to the life insurance benefit 
for all your agreements for which  the deceased  was a nominated person.
The word  agreement was defined by the policy as A Commercial  Overdraft  facility  granted  
by [the bank].
Essentially, this version of the policy also says Aviva will only pay in relation to agreements 
provided by the specific bank. Since  M Rs late fathers  agreement  with the specified bank 
ended before he died, I think  its fair that Avivas  refusing to pay for the other agreement  with 
the other bank.
Overall, and taking into account all of Mr Rs submissions, I dont think Avivas  acted unfairly  
in declining the claim. 
Premiums
I understand Mr Rs father continued to pay premiums for the policy even after his 
agreement with the bank ended and he moved his account. Since  he could never  have 
claimed for any events  after that point, I think those premiums should be returned by Aviva in 
the interests of fairness.
In addition, I believe Aviva  should  add compensatory interest  to the premiums  from the date 
it became aware  it was no longer  on risk. I currently believe that Aviva  first became  aware  of 
that in or around October 2017, when Mr R initially enquired about claiming on his fathers 
policy.
I realise a partial  refund of premiums plus interest isnt the award Mr R would have hoped for 
or, perhaps,  was expecting. Nevertheless, I think that represents a fair outcome in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN24982823My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive provisionally  decided  to uphold  this complaint in part. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Return the premiums  paid on the policy from the point Mr Rs father  moved his bank 
account to another bank; and
Pay interest on the premiums at the simple annual rate of 8%, calculated  from the 
date Aviva Insurance Limited first became  aware the account had been moved, to 
the date of settlement.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. 
Aviva said it had nothing  to add to my provisional decision. 
Mr R said he thought  the adjudicators assessment of the complaint would be final and that 
the claim would  be paid as a result. He remained of the view that, as the policy  terms didnt 
say his father couldnt change banks without losing the benefit of the cover,  the claim should 
be paid.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points Mr R makes in response to my provisional decision are essentially the same as 
the ones he made  and that I took into account   previously. Im satisfied  that the policy  
terms did have the effect  of stopping cover once accounts were moved from the bank in 
question and I explained why in my provisional decision. 
So, taking everything  into account, I still dont think Avivas decision was unfair.  Although, I 
remain of the view that a partial refund of the premiums is due.
Im sorry  if Mr R incorrectly believed the adjudicators assessment to be final. But our final 
decision on any complaint  can only be issued by an ombudsman.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to put things  right as explained above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2498282