K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about delays by Santander UK Plc when processing a Faster Payment.
 
background
On 5 April 2019,  Miss C made a Faster Payment request  from her Santander  current 
account. This payment was to be made into an Individual Savings Account (ISA) Miss C 
held. The payment debited her current  account but then was credited back  the same  day. It 
wasnt until the 6 April 2019 that the payment was processed and deposited  into her ISA.
Miss C is unhappy as she specifically needed the money to arrive into the ISA on the same 
day she requested the transaction  the last day of the financial tax year. This is due to the 
tax-free savings  allowance on this type of account.  She says as a result of this delay, the 
payment now counts towards the current tax years  allowance  and reduces  the amount she 
can deposit in this financial year. Miss C wants Santander to back-date  the payment to show 
that it was deposited on 5 April 2019.
Santander said Faster  Payments are usually immediate but in some cases they can take up 
to the end of the next working day. It told her some payments  can be held up as a result of 
fraud prevention checks and that her payment did go through  some  security checks. 
Santander said it placed the money back into her current account while these checks  were 
completed so that she wouldnt lose any interest  if she had an interest-bearing account.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Santander is allowed to hold 
payments for security checks as its in their terms and conditions. As the payment was 
credited by the end of the following  working day, she said this was within the time frame set 
out in the Faster Payment rules. She also said the bank had followed its process  by putting 
the money back into her account whilst completing  these checks  so it hadnt treated  her 
unfairly.
Miss C disagreed with our investigators  view.  As she was making the payment to one of her 
own accounts, she doesnt see why a security  check was needed. She also didnt see why 
the money was put back into her account as this didnt give her any interest. She wants  
compensation for the fact that she has lost out on the tax-free saving allowance for the 
previous financial  year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. Im aware Miss C feels very strongly 
about this issue  and so she is likely to be disappointed with this outcome. Ill explain my 
reasons for reaching this decision.
Santander has provided a copy of the terms and conditions which  apply to Miss Cs account.  
In the terms it states Faster Payments will usually be processed immediately  but says 
there are reasons why these might  be delayed, such as fraud prevention checks. Santander  
has said this was the reason for the delay of Miss Cs payment. 
All banks  have a duty to try to prevent fraud  and protect their customers money.  Santander 
has an automated system  in place to check transactions,  but it says some  payments may be 
Ref: DRN22983402flagged manually. As a business,  Santander can decide the process  it uses  for completing 
these checks. It is clear in the terms and conditions that payments may be subject to checks, 
and Im satisfied Santander  was entitled to hold the payment while making  these checks. 
Miss C has commented about the likelihood of this payment being an issue  as she was 
transferring money  to one of her own accounts   so she doesnt understand the need for any 
checks to be completed  on such payments. I agree  that the risk on these  payments  may be 
lower but that doesnt mean  this isnt a possibility. So I dont think  Santander has done 
anything wrong  by checking her payment.
Ive also seen in the terms and conditions  that payments are normally transferred from the 
account on the same working day and will normally  reach the receiving bank  no later than 
the end of the following  working day after Santander  received the instruction. This is also 
time frame detailed in the rules set out under the Faster Payment scheme.  Even though the 
money didnt leave Miss Cs current account on the same day, Santander met its obligations 
by transferring the money to Miss Cs ISA the following day, after completing  its checks.  So I 
cant see that there has been any failing here by Santander.
I understand Miss C is unhappy with what happened to her payment  during this checking 
process and why the debiting and crediting into her account caused confusion. But 
Santanders policy of putting money  back into the debiting account seems reasonable to me 
 Miss C was making a relatively large payment transfer and if her account had been  one 
that accrued interest, this could  have  had quite an impact. So I dont think it has acted 
inappropriately by returning the money to her account while the checks  were completed.
Miss C has missed out on her ISA allowance from the last tax year and she is, 
understandably, frustrated  that she has lost this opportunity.  This allowance  is available  for 
the whole  of the year but Miss C completed her online payment request on the last possible 
date. While I appreciate she is entitled  to make payments whenever she chooses, doing so 
entailed a risk if anything delayed the payment. Santander completed the transaction  within 
its agreed and published  timeframes  - so it isnt responsible  for her missing this deadline.  I 
therefore dont  require it to compensate her for this loss.
Ref: DRN22983403my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2298340