K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr D took two loans  from Satsuma in October  2015 and September  2018. Mr D complained 
to this service about loan 1 on an earlier occasion  and it was not upheld  by an adjudicator.  
The complaint was closed in 2017.  Mr D borrowed £750 in September  2018  and agreed  to 
repay the loan over the following six months. There appears to be a balance  on the loan that 
remains outstanding.
Mr Ds complaint about loan 2 has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He sent a 
letter to both parties where he didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He concluded that Satsuma 
should have done more  checking about  Mr Ds financial circumstances given the earlier  
complaint but concluded that the level of checking would not have revealed that the loan was 
unaffordable or that Mr D couldnt sustainably make the repayments.
Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicator and said his credit file would have shown that the loan 
was unaffordable and was at odds  with the information he had given about his finances.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
D could repay the loan in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN24034772refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
As Mr D has complained about loan 1 and this has been dealt with I am unable to consider 
that complaint  further in this decision.  I have taken it into account when looking at Mr Ds 
history with Satsuma. I have also taken account of the fact that Mr D had complained  to 
Satsuma that he was unable to afford his previous loan and so I agree with the adjudicator  
that Satsuma should  have  taken  care before granting Mr D a further loan.
 
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr D. It asked him for details of his income 
and his normal expenditure. It gathered  data from credit  reference agencies. And it then 
used this information to calculate how much disposable income Mr D had left over each 
month. Satsuma also used the credit reference  agency checks  to gather  some more 
information about Mr Ds financial situation  at that time.
Mr D has told our service  that he was in financial hardship when  applying  for the loan and 
that Satsuma should  have  picked  up on this. He has provided this service with information  
about his health and his gambling transactions. But this information was not mentioned as 
part of the first complaint. At that time Mr D told Satsuma  he was getting back on his feet 
and was looking to buy a property. It had been  nearly three years since Mr D had applied  for 
a loan and over a year since  his complaint had been  dealt with by this service.
In addition, I have  seen results from the credit checks that Satsuma carried out at the time.  
These checks failed to show any information that might have suggested  Mr D was having  
problems managing his money.  The checks didnt show any concerning  information such  as 
a reliance on other short term loans, or delinquent or defaulted active  accounts.
In saying that, I think it is important to note that, generally, the information  a consumer might 
see, when they request a copy  of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender  might  only see a small portion of the credit  file, or some data might  be 
missing or anonymised,  or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain why Mr D 
says that he was having problems managing  his money at the time the loan was granted  but 
this was not reflected in the credit search  information collated by Satsuma  at the time.
The repayments that Mr D had agreed  to make on his loan were relatively modest compared 
to the income  that hed declared  to Satsuma. And based on what he had told Satsuma and 
the credit  checks it carried out, the repayments appeared to be easily  affordable. So given 
these repayment  amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Ds circumstances  at the time, and 
his lack of recent borrowing history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Satsuma  to ask him for the amount of information  that would be needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable  for example by requesting bank  statements.  I think  it 
was reasonable  for Satsuma to conclude  any earlier difficulties may have passed and it was 
not aware as part of the previous complaint of Mr Ds gambling or health issues. So I dont 
think Satsuma was wrong to give this loan to Mr D.
I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D and I sympathise with 
his circumstances.  I would expect Provident  to treat him positively and sympathetically when 
arranging repayment  of the outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN24034773my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2403477