K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc applied disproportionate  fees and charges to 
his credit card accounts causing him additional  financial  hardship.
background
Mr M says that Capital One applied fees and charges to his three credit card accounts  which  
placed his account balances above  his credit limits,  leading  him to incur additional fees and 
charges. He says the fees are disproportionate; they dont reflect  the real costs  incurred  by 
Capital One.
Capital One rejected this complaint. It says the fees were charged  in accordance with the 
account terms and conditions and were applied  following missed  payments or late 
payments. Capital One says it refunded some fees and tried to contact Mr M once  the 
accounts went into arrears, but it wasnt able to reach him. And it says once each account 
was defaulted,  it applied no further interest  or charges.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld; he said 
Capital One applied the charges correctly so he wouldnt be asking it to refund any of the 
charges. Mr M disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have to tell Mr M that 
I think the adjudicator  has reached  the right outcome here.  And I think  he set out the position 
very clearly so theres  very little I can usefully add to what hes already said.
When Mr M took out a credit card with Capital  One he entered  into a contract with it - a credit 
card agreement. This agreement is subject to terms and conditions that both Mr M and 
Capital One agreed  to.
Capital One has provided me with a copy of the agreement and the terms and conditions. 
They explain  that interest will be charged  for all transactions on the card.  They also explain 
that there  will be extra charges applied in certain circumstances. These  include  where a 
payment to the card isnt received by the agreed  date and where the agreed limit is 
exceeded.
Capital One has also provided me with the statements for Mr Ms credit cards   the same as 
those provided to Mr M each month.  On each  of the statements, any interest that has been  
charged is outlined.  Where extra fees have been  charged, these have also been highlighted,  
with an explanation of what they are for and how to avoid them  in future. 
I can see that Capital  One has charged Mr M £12 for being late with his payments on several  
occasions or for exceeding his credit  limit. Ive had a look at the terms and conditions for 
Mr Ms credit cards. This sets out default charges and shows that the charge for late or 
failure to pay default is £12 and the charge for overlimit default is also £12. Capital One 
has never charged him more than £12 for paying late or for having a balance in excess of his 
credit card limit.
Ref: DRN22539062Mr M says that these charges are disproportionate and dont reflect  the real cost to 
Capital One. I disagree. I say this because in its statement,  the Office of Fair Trading (OFT)  
didnt say specifically  what  a fair charge  might  be, but it said it wouldnt take further action if 
charges were set below £12. The £12 charge doesnt need  to reflect the exact cost that 
Capital One mightve  incurred  because  of Mr Ms late payment or overlimit balance.  It should 
be calculated to take into account the average cost for late payments across all of its 
customers. So Im satisfied it was fair for Capital One to apply these  charges  to Mr Ms 
account.
Finally, Capital One had a duty to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically if it was aware  
he was experiencing financial difficulties. But based  on everything Ive been given by both 
Mr M and Capital One, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr M made Capital One 
aware of his situation before making  his complaint in January 2019.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2253906