K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money  for payments he says he 
didnt make from his account.
background
Mr B disputes making two payments from his account using mobile  banking  on 27 
September 2017. Each was for £500. He says he thinks that his mobile phone was hacked 
and as a result he had to replace it. He wasnt able to access  mobile banking  at this time. 
And when  he logged on to online banking using a another  desktop device on 1 October  
2019 he realised  that payments had been  made  from his account. He reported  this as fraud 
and has shown that a new phone was purchased  which he has since  used for mobile 
banking.
Barclays initially applied a temporary  credit of £1,000 to Mr Bs account. But it removed this 
when it looked  at how the payments were  made.  It said that these were made using an IP 
address and device  number  used  by Mr B before. There was no explanation of how 
someone would have been  able to do this by accessing and unlocking Mr Bs phone  and 
then inputting his passcode for mobile banking.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. She said that:
-Barclays records showed  that Mr Bs phone was registered for mobile banking in 
November 2015 and this was the only device used for mobile banking.
-Mr Bs account was accessed  using mobile  banking on multiple occasions during the 
period. The IP address and device  number matched  that used before by Mr B 
including for a payment he made  of £5 on 3 September  2017
-Mr B had told her that he kept his card in his wallet  and in a safe in his room when he 
was at home. He hadnt told anyone his PIN. No one else had access to his phone  or 
card. He lives with close family.
-In order to set up the new payee  for the disputed payments a third party  would have 
needed Mr Bs card details and PIN. There was no explanation of how a third party 
could have known  all this security information and had access to the phone  and PIN. 
-A fraudster would have been expected  to take as much  money  from the account as 
quickly as possible but there was still a balance available when Mr B reported what  
had happened.
-The evidence showed that Mr B had logged onto his desktop  device  on 30 
September 2017 too and using the same IP address that had been used to access 
mobile banking.  So it was unusual he hadnt reported  what  happened then rather  
than on the next day.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.  He was unhappy at the time he 
had had to wait for his money to be returned as this was important to his ability  to start a 
business. He said that the use of his password, PIN and card isnt conclusive evidence of 
him authorising a payment.  He wanted to know  what the IP address of the phone  was, not 
that of the router  used.  He has no connection  with the person who received the money and 
wanted to know  what Barclays had done  to get his money back.  Mr B maintained that his 
mobile phone had been hacked and that he was totally innocent and would never  steal 
money.
Ref: DRN25289722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if payments werent 
authorised Mr B wouldnt generally  be responsible  for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of how these payments  were  made?
-Did Mr B authorise the payments on the account?  
Ive looked at the available evidence provided by Barclays about how these payments were  
made. Ive seen the details that were  captured about  the IP address and device number. Ive 
seen an audit showing that Mr Bs card details were used to set up the payee  after a 
successful log in had been made to his account  using  mobile  banking.  So Im satisfied that 
these payments were  correctly authenticated.
The issue  is whether Mr B consented  to them. I accept  that his mobile  phone  was replaced 
shortly after these disputed payments as hes provided a receipt  for a new one. And he then 
registered a new device on mobile  banking.  But he hasnt provided any supporting evidence 
of the technical problems  he was having  with his phone  or to show that his phone was 
hacked as he says rather than say becoming  faulty when he made  an update.
Hes told us that the problems started on 24 September 2017 when he updated his phone  
and got worse by the next day. And that all his attempts to rectify things were unsuccessful  
and so he concluded his phone was hacked. He then says he called Barclays  on 29 
September 2017 as he couldnt use the apps and was told to wait as some updates were 
being done. He got an error code  on 30 September  2017 and again the next day after hed 
logged on to online banking  with his desktop device.
The evidence Ive seen  is of multiple  access to his account using mobile  banking  during this 
period. And that was especially during 26 September 2017 and then on 27 September 2017   
- the day when the disputed payments were made at 10:43 and then 12:21. As our 
adjudicators said the way that the payee was set up was using the card and PIN. So theres 
no explanation  of why a third party with access to his security  details would  be accessing his 
account so many times over the period.
Im afraid that I see no evidence that a different mobile device  was used to access his 
account. And I dont  see any likely scenario in which a third party  acting without his authority 
could have had access to all the security information necessary to make  these payments. 
Barclays has said that when Mr B reported these disputed  payments it contacted  the other 
financial business holding  the account  of the recipient. There was no money left. And given 
Mr B disputes making the payments at all the name of the intended  recipient  doesnt seem 
relevant here  its not as if he is saying  he thought  he was making  the payment to someone 
else that he knew or thought was genuine.
I appreciate Mr B says he has been the victim  of fraud and doesnt see theres any proof  that 
he made the payments. I wont be able to say exactly what  happened and this service  isnt 
Ref: DRN25289723conducting a criminal  investigation  thats down to the relevant authorities. Im looking at 
what is most likely  and having considered all the evidence I find that Mr B consented to and 
so authorised the payments for the reasons  Ive given above.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2528972