K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr H (the consumers) complain they were mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy  
by Bank  of Scotland plc (the business). Theyre concerned about the premium increases and 
feel that they should have  been  sold a non-reviewable whole of life policy. 
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said: the recommendation was suitable; the consumers were  warned that the 
premiums could increase;  and hes satisfied a non-reviewable policy  was discussed and set 
aside as an option.   
The consumers disagreed with the adjudicators  view. They maintain they werent  told about 
the premium increases.  
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what the consumers  say Im not persuaded the recommendation was unsuitable, or that it 
wasnt made reasonably  clear that the premiums were likely to increase. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise the consumers strength  of feeling about this matter. 
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by the consumers and the business, and reach  what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy the consumers are complaining about is 
known as a reviewable whole of life insurance. Its not set up for a specific  term, but is 
instead designed to pay out on death  whenever  it occurs. 
Ref: DRN24281492At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
Some businesses provide illustrations, which can only give an indication of what the cost of 
premiums are likely  to be, they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost or increased cost of 
the premiums.   
In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy is split two ways.  The first part is used to 
pay for the cost of cover in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. So, 
its not practicable to invest more  of the premium.  
The cost of the cover is also not fixed and actually increases with age. This doesnt  mean  
the policy is age discriminatory it just takes account of the higher risk the insurer will have 
resulting from customers increased age. In this case the hope is that the investment 
element will grow enough to fund the shortfall  when the policy reaches the point that the cost 
of cover becomes  greater  than the premium.  But again there are no guarantees. 
Policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. But at each  review, in this case every  five years until 2018,  the insurer also 
needs to make new assumptions  about the cost of cover and investment performance in the 
future. Thats why its virtually impossible to predict future premium increases and 
percentages. 
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review,  usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed  usually  meaning the policyholders will be offered the choice of either paying a 
higher premium to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting  reduced cover for the same  
premium. 
This explains why some  consumers premiums  have increased over time to maintain the 
sum assured or, the sum assured reduced  when they chose to maintain the premium.   In this 
instance I note that following the December 2018 review it was estimated that the current 
premium was likely to maintain the level of cover for 11 years. 
Ive carefully considered  what the consumers have  said they were (and werent) told about 
the policy when  it was arranged. But having considered  everything  they and the business 
have said, I dont think their comments alone are enough for me to say the policy  was mis-
sold. I must  take into account the explanatory literature that the business says they were  
given when the policy started. This explains the premiums were  reviewable and were subject 
to increase. So on balance, Im satisfied this allowed the premiums to be increased and the 
business didnt  mislead the consumers about how it would work.
In other  words, on balance Im satisfied, despite  what the consumers  says,  that they were  
made aware  that the policy was reviewable and that the premiums  were likely to increase to 
maintain the level of cover they wanted. I also think its more likely  than not they were told 
about the difference between the fund value and the amount of cover. 
Even if they were told theyd maintain  the £150,000 sum assured to the age of 109, it was 
only on the assumption of a 6% growth rate. 
Ref: DRN24281493I note that the consumers  say they shouldve been sold a non-reviewable whole of life policy. 
But on the face of the evidence Im satisfied  that this option was more  likely than not to have 
been considered and discounted, owing to the cost of the premiums. I note, in respect  of the 
non-reviewable policy it was recorded however it should be noted that the costs involved 
would be significantly higher. Ive seen nothing to suggest that despite  this they still wanted 
the non-reviewable policy. On balance I think,  its more likely than not that they didnt. 
So, given the way a reviewable life policy operated, being asked to reduce the sum assured 
or increase the premiums,  even  significantly,  doesnt mean  the business acted incorrectly. 
Im satisfied the business acted in a way it was entitled to within  its terms and conditions,  
including the 10% annual  increase. 
On balance Im satisfied the documentation  supplied by the business was reasonably  clear,  
unambiguous and not misleading. The business couldnt have predicted the level of the 
premium increase 10 years on, and I dont think in fairness it was obliged to do so.
I appreciate the consumers will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt what  they want to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business  to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give the 
consumers what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2428149