K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (when  it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs N took out their joint mortgage  in June 1997. Lloyds sold them  PPI either  around 
the same  time or some time after. This protected Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage  repayments in 
the event that Mr N couldnt work  as a result of accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion.
Mr and Mrs N mainly said Lloyds added PPI to their mortgage account without their 
knowledge or consent. Mr and Mrs N also told us that they didnt need this PPI as they had 
other means  they couldve relied on to pay their mortgage. In particular, they mentioned  
already having  mortgage  unemployment  and disability insurance arranged  by Lloyds with an 
insurer Ill call P. Mr and Mrs N said theyd taken out the policy  with P in approximately 
1992. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
After so long, neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs N could provide any paperwork from the time 
to show how the PPI was sold.  And Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs N. 
So, in fairness to them, it looked at their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had 
recommended PPI during a meeting Mr and Mrs N recalled  having  at the bank. Given  the 
lack of paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs N, I think  this is the fairest 
way to assess this complaint. So thats the approach  Im taking as well.
It looks to me as if PPI wouldnt have  been a suitable recommendation based on what 
Mr and Mrs N have said about their circumstances at the time. 
The information Ive seen suggests  that the cover  was just in Mr Ns name. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mr and Mrs N arranged their mortgage  and 
took out this PPI. But as Lloyds is treating this as an advised  sale,  in other words  a sale 
where it personally recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs N, the onus was on it to find out about 
their circumstances and ensure that the policy met their specific  needs.
The policy paid out a monthly benefit that covered Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage repayments  
(plus some extra) for up to 12 months  per claim.  So it wouldve paid out for longer than Mr N 
told us he couldve relied on getting sick pay if he wasnt  able to work as a result of being  off 
work ill or being  disabled from working. And it wouldve also paid out if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and he became unemployed.   
But Ive taken into account the information  Mr N told us about other cover he had set up. 
Ref: DRN22945042Life insurance, critical illness  cover and the accident  policy he mentioned all provided a 
different sort of cover  from PPI. So I dont  think having this cover wouldve made PPI 
unsuitable for him. 
But Ive thought very carefully about  everything Mr N has told us about the mortgage 
unemployment and disability policy he says hed already set up with the insurer P in 
approximately 1992. Mr N says this policy meant  he didnt need the PPI policy Lloyds  sold 
him with this mortgage  which  started  in 1997.
Lloyds initially told us it had checked  with P and said it had confirmed that the other  policy 
Mr N is referring  to was taken out in 1998.  So this wouldve been  after Lloyds sold 
Mr and Mrs N the mortgage and the PPI theyve complained about to us.
But Mr N has disputed this. He says that that he took out mortgage unemployment and 
disability insurance  definitely in May 1992 when he bought his first property. And he 
believes he received  a letter from the insurer regarding a company name  change  sometime 
around 1998. Hes told us:
I didnt take payment protection on any of my mortgages as I knew I was covered with my 
insurances and I did not know until February 2018  that PPI was sold on just one of my 
mortgages with C & G.
So we asked  Lloyds  to make some  further  enquiries  about this. And Lloyds has now told us 
that its unclear  where the information  it originally told us had come  from.  It now says that 
after looking  into this further, it cant now provide  confirmation that the dates it provided to us 
were correct.
Mr N is confident and consistent about  what hes told us, he has a clear recollection  of 
events and theres a lack of any other  evidence  from Lloyds to contradict  what  Mr N has 
said. So, on balance, I think its fair and reasonable to rely on the information  Mr N has 
provided.
This means  that its likely Lloyds recommended  PPI that wouldve effectively provided  
duplicate cover with the policy Mr N told us hed already set up  or at least overlapped 
substantially with it.
Ive taken into account that a policy taken out some  years earlier  mightnt have provided 
sufficient cover for a later mortgage.  But this doesnt  affect  my overall view. Lloyds hasnt 
been able to show me that it discussed the suitability of taking out PPI with Mr and Mrs N or 
advised them about how having an existing policy mightve been a relevant consideration. 
And if it had done,  based on what Mr and Mrs N have told us, I dont think they wouldve 
decided to buy the further policy to protect  Mr N. So I find that Mr and Mrs N have lost out as 
a result of Lloyds failings  when  it sold them PPI with their mortgage taken out in 1997.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was to uphold this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs N didnt have anything further to add. 
Ref: DRN22945043Lloyds told us it was willing  to make an offer to settle  this complaint in line with our 
guidelines.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision and Lloyds  Bank PLC has now agreed to settle the complaint. 
putting things right
Lloyds should  put Mr and Mrs N in the position  they wouldve been in had they not taken out 
the policy. If the policy hasnt already been  cancelled it should be now and Lloyds should:  
Pay Mr and Mrs N the amount they paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs N.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs N a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr and Mrs N as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2294504