K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Old Mutual  Wealth Life & Pensions Limited  has increased the premiums 
on his whole of life policy to an unmanageable level, has failed to provide sufficient 
information about the risk of this happening  and has clearly not run the policy  effectively.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld.
He said Mr R had received the advice to take this policy out from a third party  and it was 
responsible for ensuring hed been fully aware  of the risks involved with a reviewable policy 
of this nature,  including that the premiums could rise substantially.
By contrast,  he said Old Mutual was responsible for managing the policy  in line with the 
terms and conditions, including  reviewing the premiums regularly, and for providing fair and 
accurate information.  He felt it had done this.
Mr R did not agree, reiterating his view that Old Mutual had not provided enough information 
- over the years - of the risk of these  ever-increasing rises. He said that up until 2018 the 
review letters had offered  predictions about  the future sustainability of the policy solely  
referring to likely investment returns. This clearly implied that if the projected return occurred 
thered be no need  for premium rises. It also implied  that where rises were needed this 
would only be to make  up for a shortfall  in the predicted investment returns. Whereas,  in 
fact, the information  in 2018 made clear there were other key factors which  impacted on the 
premium level,  notably  the increasing cost of the life cover.
Had this been  spelt out earlier, he would have  made  very different decisions about the policy 
and the sum assured. He further expanded on this pointing, quoting  from the 2018 and pre-
2018 review letters.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator said, Old Mutual did not recommend  this policy  so it was not responsible  
for pointing  out the risks entailed in a reviewable  whole of life policy   beyond making clear 
in the literature that the premium would  be reviewable after a certain point. 
That said,  I fully understand Mr Rs concerns about  the information provided  at review points 
before 2018. It is unfortunate  that it did not make clearer that the sustainability of the sum 
assured was as much  affected by future increases in life cover  costs as by investment 
returns. But, having clarified  this with Old Mutual, I am satisfied that the projections it did 
send to Mr R took account of its projections  in the likely increase in the cost of his cover. 
This meant that the annual  quotes did factor this in consideration, meaning Mr Rs quoted  
premium predictions took account of both projected life cover  costs and predicted investment 
returns.
I also note that while  Mr R was regularly informed that a certain  premium  was likely to be 
sufficient to retain a particular sum assured for the next five years, most years  this projection 
turned out to be an under-estimate i.e. he was then told that a higher figure  was now needed 
Ref: DRN20569092to retain  the sum assured going  forward. Some years he was asked  to pay a substantially 
higher increase in premium to retain the same level of cover,  over and above the 10% 
indexation hed chosen. So I think he was aware  or ought reasonably to have been aware 
that the cost of cover had been  rising steadily and unpredictably for many years.
Finally, as the adjudicator noted,  the additional information provided in 2018 arose from a 
thematic review by the Financial Conduct  Authority.  In effect,  this review recommended  that 
providers gave more  information about  the basis of their reviews and projections of policies 
future value.  It is not for me to say that the regulator should have done  this earlier  or that Old 
Mutual should have  provided this extra information  before  it was required to.
 
Overall, while  I understand that the recent reviews have been a very unwelcome shock  for 
Mr R, I cannot  agree  that Old Mutual  has failed to manage Mr Rs policy in line with the 
terms and conditions or that it failed to inform him of the need for premium rises (including 
the fact that even such rises could not guarantee a particular sum assured  going forward.)
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2056909