K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained about his home  insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc. He feels  it handled his 
claim made following a water leak badly.
background 
Mr S found  a leak in March 2017. Repairs  werent  fully resolved until March  2018. Mr S 
complained to AXA. He reported that the repairs hadnt been  managed  properly, the parties 
involved hadnt communicated  very well with each other or him and there had been delays 
along with poor work, which had caused re-work to be needed. He also said that his flooring 
in his hallway  had been damaged due to the prolonged  work.
AXA accepted there had been poor communication which had caused delays. It also 
accepted the service  it had provided to Mr S had been below standard. It paid Mr S £350 
compensation.
Our adjudicator felt AXAs settlement  of compensation hadnt been  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. He suggested it pay more. AXA offered a further £300, making a total 
compensation payment of £650.  
Mr S said he thought £1,000 compensation was fair. He also said the issue  of his damaged 
flooring hadnt  been considered.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I noted the circumstances of the 
claim and what Mr S had been  through. I told AXA that, in my view, fair and reasonable 
compensation totalled £1,000 (meaning it should pay a further £650). I also said it should 
consider the reported damage  to Mr Ss floor and whether it had liability for resolving that. 
AXA agreed. Mr S did not. Mr S said compensation of £2,000  was fair and reasonable given 
what hed been  through.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This claim  was handled badly by AXA. Mr S was caused a lot of distress and inconvenience 
that he shouldnt  have suffered. And wouldnt have  if AXA had handled  the claim properly. 
But he would always have suffered some upset  as a result  of the claim. I have to distinguish  
one from the other and decide what sum fairly  compensates for the upset AXA,  by its 
failures, caused Mr S.
I can see that the work took around  nine months longer than it should reasonably have done 
and Mr S and his family were out of their home for longer than necessary too. They  spent 
time at home without  a shower as well before  having to move  out again. There  was poor 
work and poor communication. There was also upset caused  in respect of the alternative 
accommodation arrangements  when Mr S was having to call every  other  day to get his stay 
extended. 
Whilst I can understand why Mr S now says he wants  £2,000  compensation, I see he felt 
previously that £1,000  was fair. I think he was right in that respect.  If he hadnt given us any 
Ref: DRN20229722figure my view would  still have been  that £1,000 is fairly and reasonably due. I do appreciate 
that he went through a very difficult time and that AXAs failure  put him under a lot of stress  
as well as caused  him a lot of inconvenience but our views simply differ on what fair 
compensation for that looks like. Im satisfied that £1,000 compensation is fair and 
reasonable and in line with other  awards  made  by this service.
Regarding the hallway  flooring, Mr S has said it was damaged by the extra foot traffic and 
possibly the protective floor coverings used by the traders  on site. It seems  though  that AXA 
hasnt considered this from the point of view of damage it may need to fix. Im satisfied that it 
needs to look into this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.   I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
Pay Mr S a further £650  compensation (making my total award  £1,000 because  it has 
already paid £350).
Consider the damage Mr S has said occurred to his hallway floor and tell him whether it 
accepts liability for repairing/replacing this or not, and if not, why not.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2022972