K820x#14the complaint
Mrs A says TSB Bank plcs IT problems meant she wasnt able to use her debit card or 
online banking for a week, and that TSB hasnt  done  enough to recognise the impact this 
had on her.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mrs A says this meant that when she 
went to pay for some  shopping,  her card didnt  work.  She was with her daughter at the time, 
and had to leave the shopping behind, which she found upsetting and embarrassing. She 
then discovered that she couldnt log onto either the TSB app or her online banking.
TSB considered Mrs As complaint and offered to pay her £300 to recognise  the impact  the 
IT issues  had on her. Mrs A didnt agree this was enough so referred the complaint to us.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. And taking into account  everything Mrs A had told 
us, he felt that what TSB had offered was fair.
TSB accepted this, Mrs A didnt. She still thought a higher amount of compensation would 
better reflect the impact  these issues had on her. So the case has been passed  to me to 
decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I agree with our adjudicator that £300  compensation is a fair way to resolve  
this complaint. 
Mrs A says she wants fair compensation for the worry  and distress caused  to her  and I can 
understand her strength  of feeling about  whats  happened here. I also appreciate that what  
one individual  might  feel is a fair amount  for the impact an issue  has caused might not be 
thought of as enough  by someone  else who went through the exact same  problem.   
I can appreciate that Mrs As debit card being refused, and having problems with accessing 
her account  online for a week,  will have been  very upsetting.  But Ive weighed  this up 
against the fact that Mrs A has told us her husband  was able to buy the food shed not been 
able to purchase  so it looks  like she did have another source of money, meaning she didnt 
have to go without.  
And thinking about everything that has happened here, I think the £300 TSB has already 
offered is an appropriate amount of compensation to recognise the impact this issue  had on 
Mrs A.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mrs A £300 for the impact the IT issues had
Ref: DRN24961892my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs As complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  but only where it hasnt 
already done so. TSB has told us it has already paid this amount to Mrs A. If so, it doesnt 
now have to pay her anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.  
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2496189