K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) is asking him to make  payments 
he cant afford on a debt. He wants Moneybarn to reduce the monthly payments.
background
In mid-June 2016 Mr M took out a conditional  sale agreement  with Moneybarn to buy a car. 
He was to pay £285.51  a month for five years.
Mr M didnt  manage to keep up the payments, and in mid-2017 Moneybarn  arranged a 
payment plan so that Mr M could catch up with the arrears. Things didnt improve, and in 
early 2018  Moneybarn got Mr M to complete an income and expenditure assessment to see 
how much  he could  reasonably afford towards  his outstanding debt. Moneybarn thought 
Mr M could  afford £100 a month on top of his normal payment and says Mr M agreed to this. 
The payment plan failed  and a couple  of months  later Mr M didnt pay the normal monthly 
payment. So Moneybarn terminated  Mr Ms agreement, and started repossession  
proceedings for the car. It applied for a court order in late 2018.
Mr M complained that £100 extra each month was too much  and said he could  have paid 
£50. He wanted Moneybarn to accept  this, but it didnt. So Mr M brought  his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the income  and expenditure paperwork Mr M had completed and 
thought that £100 extra  each month  was affordable, as it was about  a quarter of Mr Ms 
declared disposable income.  But he thought that, as Mr M had struggled to meet payments 
almost from the start of the arrangement, it was appropriate for him to explore whether 
Moneybarn should  have lent to Mr M in the first place. So he asked Moneybarn to share the 
information it collected when assessing  Mr Ms ability to repay in 2016.
Moneybarn said it asked  for proof of income, and Mr M chose to send in his bank statements 
for this. It says it also completed  its normal  credit  checks to assess  affordability, 
indebtedness and payment history. It says a credit search showed nothing that would 
prevent it from lending, pointing out that it does  specialise in lending to higher risk 
customers. It was satisfied it carried out the relevant checks.
Our investigator thought the statements Mr M provided showed  his outgoings were much  
higher than his income and that he had an unarranged overdraft. He also pointed out a court 
fee, which he said should have prompted  Moneybarn to ask further questions.  He said that if 
Moneybarn had looked at Mr Ms credit  history in more detail it would have  realised he had 
several defaults registered against  his name and had gone  into arrears on a second  
mortgage. He also had several debts  with debt collectors.
Our investigator concluded that Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to Mr M. He suggested 
Moneybarn should  close Mr Ms account, write off any remaining debt and amend his credit  
file as though the loan never existed.
Moneybarn doesnt  agree. It says the outgoings  on Mr Ms bank  account  were skewed 
because he transferred money  in and out of his savings account   which  it says is a 
common way people  manage their cash flow. It thought that stripping these from both in and 
outgoings showed a more  balanced  result  and that there was no compelling  reason why it 
shouldnt have lent.
Ref: DRN28985862Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
affordability
Mr M applied  for a loan hed be repaying for five years. Thats a fairly substantial  
commitment. So when Moneybarn lent to Mr M, it needed to carry out sufficient  checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr M could afford the loan. Theres no set list of checks it had to carry out  
but they did need to be proportionate to the amount of the loan and the commitment Mr M 
was entering into.
Moneybarn says it received Mr Ms bank  statements  for the two months  prior to his 
application, which it used  to confirm his income. It also carried out a credit check  which 
contained nothing  that prevented it from lending using its own criteria.
Those seem to me to be reasonable checks. But I dont  think they go far enough.  I think 
reasonable enquiries would also establish whether Mr M had sufficient money left each 
month, after paying his regular commitments and living costs, to afford this loan. I cant see 
that Moneybarn  did that. One way of doing this might have been to ask Mr M what  his 
outgoings were  and compare them to his bank statements. We have those statements. So 
Ill look at the information  Moneybarn did get and whether it should have affected its decision 
to lend. Thats because  even if Moneybarn didnt have a list of outgoings from Mr M, the 
information it did have  might have meant it could reach a reasonable decision without  that.
bank statements
Many lenders dont  see bank statements  before lending, but Mr M chose to send these  to 
Money barn.  It says they were to confirm his income   but its also reasonable to say that if 
they contained other information pertinent to the lending decision  Moneybarn should have 
noted this. Ive looked at the statements and it appears that over the two months  or so the 
amounts paid into the account and out were roughly equal (added together they were  about 
£4,784 in and £4,778 out). Thats reflected in the fact that Mr M had an overdraft of about 
£500 at the beginning  and end of the two months  although he was in credit at one point, so 
I cant say the overdraft was permanent. I can see Mr M paid some unauthorised overdraft 
charges. Our investigator suggested  Mr M didnt have an arranged overdraft, and I agree 
there isnt one shown  on the statement. But I can see Mr Ms bank was making payments on 
his behalf up to about a £500 overdraft. I can only see one returned payment when Mr M 
went over £500, so this arrangement seems to have been working.
I can also see Mr M was transferring money to and from a savings account. But as 
Moneybarn says, thats something  many people do to help them manage their cash flow. 
Mr M says he was supplementing his outgoings from his savings and Moneybarn  should 
have realised he was over-spending. I cant see that this was apparent from the statements, 
given that the money moved from the savings account was only about £200 more than was 
transferred into the savings account  during the period.  But even if Mr M had been asked 
about this, supplementing  an income with what appears to be a small amount of savings isnt 
necessarily a reason  for Moneybarn not to lend. 
Ref: DRN28985863Overall, I think these  statements show that Mr M was just about getting  by  or at least his 
situation didnt  worsen over these two months. But I cant see he had enough free money 
to pay nearly £300 a month for five years.
Based on these statements I think Moneybarn had enough information to prompt it to make 
further enquires. It cant show me it did that, so I cant say it responsibly lent to Mr M. 
Our investigator said that an entry marked court order fee for £25 should have prompted 
Moneybarn to make further enquiries. Im not convinced a low value  fee  which  could have 
been for any court procedure Mr M was involved  in  should have prompted further 
enquiries. But this doesnt make  a difference as I think  Moneybarn  was already on notice to 
enquire further before it lent to Mr M. 
credit file
Mr M sent us a copy of his credit file. I should say that the credit search Moneybarn carried 
out wouldnt have  given the same  level of detail we can see in Mr Ms report.  But it will show 
defaults etc. Mr Ms report does show several  defaults and that he was behind  on his second 
mortgage (although  this only seems  to be one payment). The defaults  were all from some 
time earlier  the most recent was more than a year old. That tallies with what Moneybarn  
says its reports showed  too  and its lending criteria meant it was content to lend to Mr M 
even with his previous  financial problems.  That might  be so, but combining the information 
on Mr Ms credit file with what Moneybarn could see on his bank statements suggests Mr M 
wasnt in a position to borrow long term.
When we got Mr Ms credit file, we noticed  that he entered into a Trust Deed on 
10 June 2016.  Thats a method of dealing with someones insolvency. I understand this is 
what the £25 court fee on Mr Ms statement refers to. Mr M has told us the arrangement  is 
still running. He told us he thought hed applied for the loan before the Trust Deed  came  into 
force. And the paperwork hes sent us does show a second date in August 2016 as the date 
of protection, although  it also shows his insolvency practitioner was appointed on 10 June.  
I doubt the Trust Deed  would  have  showed on Mr Ms credit file when  he signed the loan 
agreement, whether it was registered  in June or August, given theres  often a delay in 
updating credit files. But I do think Mr M must have known of its existence. We sent this 
information to Moneybarn for comment, but it hasnt responded.
I think its possible there were mistakes on both sides here. But I think  Moneybarn is the 
expert in lending decisions  not Mr M. And even  without  the information  about the Trust 
Deed, I think Moneybarn  had enough  information to make further enquiries before it lent to 
Mr M. It didnt do that, so I cant say it lent responsibly.
I think the fairest way to put things  right is for Moneybarn to cancel Mr Ms outstanding debt 
once the car is returned to Moneybarn (if it hasnt been repossessed  by Moneybarn already). 
Im not going  to ask Moneybarn to refund any of Mr Ms payments as he had use of the car 
even during the periods  he wasnt making  all the required  payments.  Moneybarn should also 
arrange for Mr Ms credit file to be amended to remove any negative  references to this loan.
Ref: DRN28985864my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
I order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to cancel any outstanding debt owed by Mr M once the car 
is returned and/or sold on his behalf. It must also remove any reference to this loan from 
Mr Ms credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2898586