K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that she was given  two counterfeit notes when she withdrew money from 
her Santander UK plc account.
background
Miss R withdrew £300 from her Santander account using an ATM  operated by a business I 
will call B. She says she gave the money  to a friend and that friend  paid the money into her 
account but was told two of the notes  were counterfeit. Miss R says she reported what  
happened to the police  and would like Santander to repay her the money she lost which  is 
£40.
Santander says the ATM isnt operated or owned by it and that Miss R will need to raise  the 
issue with B, which is the business that owns and operated the ATM. It says it has no control 
over the ATM  and cant investigate what happened  as its staff were  not involved.
Miss R brought  her complaint to us but our investigator didnt think Santander had made  a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  The investigator didnt think Santander was responsible for what 
happened as it didnt operate the ATM or own it. The investigator thought Santander  couldnt  
investigate what had happened as its staff were  not involved.
Miss R doesnt accept that view and says its unfair  thats shes out of pocket and says shes  
the victim of fraud.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Miss R will be disappointed  by 
my decision.  And I appreciate Miss Rs frustration and concern in these circumstances that, 
through no fault of hers, she has lost £40.
Im satisfied that the ATM Miss R used  to withdraw the money wasnt owned or operated by 
Santander but by a different business.  So I dont think Santander  staff could have  had any 
involvement in the use of that ATM or would have  been responsible for the money  within it. 
So I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for what happened  just because Miss R has a 
Santander account. Im also satisfied  that Santander has no power  to investigate an ATM 
owned and operated by a different business.
Overall I dont think Santander could do any more to help Miss R with this problem and I can 
see that in any event she is considering making a complaint about  B as it operated the ATM.
Ref: DRN21452012my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2145201