K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with FCE 
Bank Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. The HPA has now ended  and he wants a refund of 
the amounts he paid due to the issues he experienced.
Background
Mr C entered into a HPA with FCE Bank  in June  2016 to acquire a new car. He said that 
since acquisition he experienced a number  of issues with the car and needed to return it 
on several occasions for repairs.  
Mr C said that the parking sensors  were  fitted  by the dealer and a week  after acquisition 
he noticed an issue with them. He contacted the dealer about this and on more than one 
occasion was told there was no issue.  It was then accepted  that there was a fault and 
the sensors were  replaced. However  the issue returned and remained ongoing despite 
repair attempts.
Mr C also experienced an issue with the handbrake in 2017. A repair was undertaken but 
the issue returned. Additionally Mr C said that he had issues  with the centre console, 
drivers seat and passenger window.
Mr C raised  his complaint with FCE Bank  as he didnt  think that car was of a satisfactory 
quality and he wanted a refund of a portion  of the payments he had made under his 
agreement.
FCE Bank said the only issue that it believed to be present from the point of supply was 
the parking sensors.  It offered to refund Mr C the cost of these along with a months 
payment. 
Mr C didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  be upheld  and 
recommended that Mr C be refunded 30% of the payments he had made under the HPA.
FCE Bank didnt agree and provided a counter offer to Mr C of the months refund and 
parking sensor  refund along with Mr Cs deposit  and for Mr C to return  the car. 
Mr C didnt accept FCE Banks offer.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  be upheld  for these reasons: 
Mr C acquired  a used car through a HPA with FCE Bank. Under  the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA 2015),  FCE Bank  can be held liable 
if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  Satisfactory  quality takes 
into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking  into account  all the circumstances. In this case  the car 
was new at acquisition  and so it is reasonable that Mr C would expect it to be 
sufficiently durable and free from faults,  including  minor defects.
Mr Cs car wasnt free from faults.  The issue with the parking sensors arose  shortly  
after acquisition and so I accept that the parking sensors were  faulty  at the point  of 
supply. Mr C gave the dealer multiple opportunities to resolve the issue but the 
problem remained.  Mr C has now ended  his agreement but this issue  remains.
Ref: DRN28531292Mr C also experienced other  issues with the car. While some of these could possibly 
be considered  wear and tear, I do not think that a new car should  be experiencing 
issues with the handbrake  in such a short period and I also think the number of 
issues experienced raises concerns about the car being sufficiently durable.
Overall, I do not find that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and 
so it is reasonable  that the remedy is provided  to address this. 
Mr Cs car has undergone a number  of repairs and while some of these have  taken 
more than one attempt to resolve, I understand the key outstanding issue remains 
the parking sensors.  
Given the number  of repair attempts and my finding that he car wasn't of satisfactory 
quality, rejection could have been an option for Mr C. However  Mr C has now ended 
his finance agreement and doesnt wish to hand back the car at this time. Therefore I 
find it reasonable that an alternative resolution is provided.
Mr C said that he wanted  a portion of his rentals  refunded. In cases such  as this, a 
price reduction can be an appropriate remedy. Mr C has ended his agreement  with 
FCE Bank so this would  need  to be actioned by way of a refund. Mr C has had use of 
the car and so a full refund wouldnt be appropriate.  However he hasnt  had use of 
the parking sensors  which he had specifically requested at the point of supply. The 
car has therefore had reduced functionality to that which Mr C paid for during the 
HPA. As I understand the issue  cannot be resolved  Mr C is now left with a car with 
this issue. Mr C has also been inconvenienced  by the amount of time he has spent 
trying to resolve this faults with his car.
Our investigator recommended that Mr C be refunded  30% of his payment to reflect 
the issue with the parking sensors and I find this reasonable. I note the comment  
made by FCE Bank in regard to this amount but I find that this was an important 
feature of the car for Mr C and to have been  without  it since the outset has had a 
significant impact. He has paid for a car with this feature included  and that hasn't 
been the case throughout the agreement and could, now the agreement has ended,  
have an impact on any resale.  Because of this, I find that 30% refund is reasonable 
in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order  to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint, FCE Bank Plc should refund  him 30% of what hes paid in total towards  the 
agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2853129