K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) changed the correspondence  
address on a joint account  without her permission and without telling her. This resulted in a 
loan being defaulted and recorded on her credit file as she didnt  receive any post.  She says 
she was declined for mortgages she applied  for, was caused  stress  and inconvenience and 
lost out on overtime  work.  She wants her credit  file amended and compensation.
background
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld  as Bank of Scotland  has taken 
reasonable steps to put things right.  He said:
Bank of Scotland has accepted it made  an error updating Mrs Bs address. It has 
removed the default from her credit file and also accepted a mortgage  application  
that was previously declined. 
Even so this matter  has been  distressing for Mrs B and shes spent time resolving 
things. She also had mortgage  applications declined because  of the default. Mrs B 
also says her work was interrupted  and she was stressed. 
Bank of Scotland has offered Mrs B £325 compensation for all this. Thats  fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been  caused. He doesnt 
think Bank of Scotland has to do any more.
Mrs B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says she accepts 
Bank of Scotland has now corrected her credit  file so she can get a mortgage. But it was 
responsible for her losing earnings  as she had to cancel pre-booked overtime shifts. As a 
result she lost about £700.  Bank  of Scotland  shouldve  contacted  her using other methods 
like the phone and email to make  her aware  of the default.  
Bank of Scotland says its offer of £325 compensation remains  fair and reasonable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland accepts it made a mistake and its taken  steps  to rectify the situation by 
removing the default on Mrs Bs credit file. Its also assisted her in making mortgage 
applications. Thats all fair and reasonable.
I also dont think Bank  of Scotland was obliged  to use additional methods of communication 
with Mrs B over and above  sending letters to her in the post.  
So, all that remains is for me to decide what a fair award of compensation is. 
Mrs B says as a result of the problems  she experienced  when applying for mortgages 
because of the default on her credit file she lost out on some  overtime work.
Although I accept Mrs B was inconvenienced  by what happened  and no doubt had to do 
more to try to get a mortgage  than she anticipated,  I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably  ask 
Ref: DRN29180272Bank of Scotland to reimburse her the £700 she says she lost in overtime  as a result. Mrs B 
mayve been looking  to carry out extra  shifts  at work but theres nothing to show  she had to 
change her working arrangements and plans solely because of what  Bank  of Scotland did. 
And applying  for a mortgage and the conveyancing  process always  involves a considerable 
amount of work  and theres no guarantee any one application will be granted  or other 
applications may not be necessary. 
Even so its clear Bank  of Scotland has a caused Mrs B a significant amount  of additional 
stress and inconvenience at a time when  she was already facing the considerable pressures 
normally associated with moving house  and getting  a mortgage.
I think this warrants an award  of compensation. Bank of Scotland has already offered her 
£325. But taking  everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think that 
is a little low. I think in this case an award of £375  is fair and reasonable for all the additional 
distress and inconvenience Mrs B was caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) should  
pay Mrs B £375 compensation.
Bank of Scotland must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Mrs B accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Bank of Scotland considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much  its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2918027