K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that Coventry Building Society wont refund a number of transactions  made  
from his account  that he says he didnt agree to. He also thinks  Coventry couldve done  
more to protect his account.
Background
Mr H holds a current account  with Coventry.  In September  2018 he visited Spain. When  he 
initially tried to use his Coventry debit  card,  the building  society placed a block on it. Mr H 
contacted Coventry  and they placed a holiday marker on his account.
The next day Mr H decided to go to a bar. When ordering  his drink, he says he was asked if 
hed like to set up a tab. His original intention  was to pay for the drinks with cash,  but the bar 
asked for a card as security.
Mr H agreed to this and put his card in to a machine and entered  his PIN at the request of 
the bar staff.  The bar staff then took the card away. After Mr H decided to leave  the bar, he 
attempted to retrieve his card  however he was told there was a problem with the box 
where cards were stored.  This was resolved after some time. Mr H then settled his bill in 
cash and left the bar.
Unknown to Mr H at the time his card had been used for a number of transactions, which 
totalled £10,737.42.
Mr H went to visit some more bars.  Early  the next morning  he attempted  to withdraw cash to 
get a taxi, but this was declined. Hes said he assumed this was because  Coventry  had 
blocked his card. He got in touch with Coventry,  and it was then he found  out about  the 
transactions on his account. He initially told them that hed only used his card for ATM 
withdrawals, but later accepted hed made some other transactions  with his card on the day.
Coventry looked in to what happened  but declined  to refund the transactions. They felt that 
there were too many inconsistencies in Mr Hs story. They confirmed all the payments had 
been made by chip and PIN and the card hadnt been cloned.  They  felt that by giving over 
his card and PIN for the bar tab he hadnt  taken adequate measures  to safeguard  his 
account.
Unhappy with this answer Mr H referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked in to what happened and thought the complaint should  be upheld.  They  
agreed that there were inconsistencies in Mr Hs story, but they felt overall it was likely 
someone other than Mr H had made the transactions.  They felt if Mr H had entered his PIN 
then this may be negligent  but didnt meet the standard of gross  negligence that meant he 
could be held liable for the transactions. They also said they felt Coventry should have done 
more to protect Mr Hs account,  as the transactions were uncharacteristic for his account.
Coventry disagreed.  They said there was no evidence of Mr H entering  his PIN at the bar for 
it to be overseen or recorded and used later. They felt that Mr H had changed his story a 
number of times and had been inconsistent in the information given. They also said the area 
of Spain Mr H had been holidaying in was known  for high-end  bars, and its not 
inconceivable that the amounts paid could be this high.
Ref: DRN22879862As no agreement could be reached  the case was passed to me to decide. In response to 
some additional  questions Coventry have confirmed that the transactions  did flag on their 
risk management system,  but this wouldnt have prevented  them going through.  They  did not 
make any attempts to discuss these transactions with Mr H. They also confirmed they had 
attempted to find out who the merchant  was but had been unsuccessful.
On 25 June 2021 I issued a provisional  decision in which  I said:
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive and contradictory, I have to make a decision 
on the balance  of probabilities  on what I consider to be more likely  than not to have 
happened.
In reaching my decision Ive taken  in to account  the relevant law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions,  
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr H and Coventry  have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont  repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis  of 
my decision.  However, I can assure Mr H that Ive read the file, including  his comments  and 
evidence.
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). The PSRs say a payment transaction is regarded as authorised  if the payer has 
given consent  to the execution of the payment transaction. If a payment service user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed  payment  the payment service provider 
(in this case  Coventry) must  prove the payment  transaction was authenticated.  And if it is 
deemed that a payment transaction hasnt  been consented to, it isnt authorised.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Coventry should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I cant say for certain what happened  on that night   Mr Hs recollection isnt clear,  and there  
are inconsistencies  to what hes said. As Coventry have pointed out, Mr H has not always  
been consistent in what he says happened. He admits  himself he was intoxicated that night, 
so this would  affect  his memory. But having  listened to the calls where he discusses the 
events with Coventry, he seems to be often referring  to a bar he was in at around midnight, 
Ref: DRN22879863until the early morning. But the transactions  in dispute appear to take place earlier in the 
evening, which from the merchant name  appears  to be a different bar. Coventry dont seem 
to clarify the timings  of the larger  transactions with Mr H until later  so this may explain why 
Mr Hs story  doesnt remain consistent.
From the technical evidence each of these transactions are made using the original card and 
verified with the PIN. Ive considered what Mr H has said about entering  his PIN in to a 
machine, and this could  be a source of the PIN compromise. It could be that this was a 
dummy machine, designed  to discover  the PIN  which may explain why Coventry  dont 
have any record of this on their systems. But as I mentioned, I cant be sure Mr H is 
describing the same events in the same  bar.
If a fraudster had somehow obtained Mr Hs card and PIN, you may expect them  to attempt 
to exhaust the account as quickly as possible. But looking at the transactions all take place 
at a steady pace over two hours.  Theres also the question of why they would  then return  the 
card to Mr H. I cant see any plausible explanation for why a fraudster would do this  after
Looking at his later transactions, which Mr H doesnt  dispute,  it seems he was paying using 
his card.  These  follow  a similar pattern, albeit for smaller amounts. He had made card 
payments earlier  in his trip. So, while he says he was intending in using  cash at the bar, Im 
not convinced  this is the case.
Im not persuaded that someone else was making the transactions after deceptively 
obtaining Mr Hs PIN. On balance, I think the more likely explanation here is that Mr H was 
making the transactions himself,  by presenting his card and entering the PIN. He seemed to 
be intending on making payments for drinks  using his card, and only he shouldve known the 
PIN. So, for the purposes of the PSRs, I think these  payments would be considered 
authorised.
However, I think its more likely  than not that Mr H was likely duped  by the bar in to making 
the transactions for such  high amounts. That is to say Mr H was being presented with a card 
terminal with an inflated cost of them, and likely not noticing the value he was agreeing  to 
pay. I say this because  he seemed genuinely  surprised when Coventry told him about  the 
transactions. Having  listened to the calls between Mr H and Coventry  he sounded shocked 
to discover the amounts that had been spent,  and this appears to be genuine to me. 
If he had known hed spent that much  money, I dont  think its likely he wouldve been trying  
to take out more money for the taxi early in the morning.  So, Im satisfied something 
untoward has happened here.
The PSRs  dont say anything about a consumer having to agree to the specific  value of a 
transaction, just that they will need  to go through the form and procedure  to verify it. But as I 
mentioned industry  guidance and good  practice would apply  so there are certain  situations 
where I would  expect Coventry to take a closer look at the circumstances of a transaction.
Even if Mr H is lying about what happened in the bar, or simply cannot recall what  
happened, the pattern  of transactions themselves looks highly unusual. Reviewing Mr Hs 
bank statements, it doesnt seem like hed ever made card payments for this much at these 
volumes before.
There are a number of very worrying factors which  indicate financial harm here which  
Coventry couldve picked  up on. The sudden increase in spending for one. Another is the 
Ref: DRN22879864multiple transactions for thousands within an hour of one another  for example between  
20:39 and 21:24 there  are four transactions totalling  over £9,500. Theres also the fact that 
the majority of the balance on the account is exhausted, which  is another  indicator of 
financial harm.
Coventry have said that the transactions did flag on their system, but this is a hindsight 
system, that highlights transactions to look at after the event, and this doesnt  block any 
transactions going through. But we know from when Coventry had blocked Mr Hs card when 
hed arrived in Spain  that this was possible.  
Good industry practice is to maintain a 24/7 fraud monitoring  service and be proactive  in 
identifying and preventing fraud. I dont think Coventry have done that here.  If they had 
spoken to Mr H about the transactions,  I think its likely Mr H wouldve realised that the bar 
was attempting  to scam  him, which wouldve prompted him to leave.
Ive considered why Coventry have said about  the area Mr H being in having  high-end  bars, 
but I dont think  this can be presumed. Likewise,  just because Mr H had confirmed he was in 
Spain, I dont think it should  be presumed  he is going to spend thousands in an evening.
Coventry didnt approach  the bar in question to verify what was purchased at the time. I 
appreciate they had no grounds to chargeback the transactions as fraud because  they were  
completed using  the genuine card and PIN. But it was still open to them  to have raised a 
merchant dispute  about what was bought. This has meant potentially  valuable evidence  
doesnt exist.  This evidence may have helped  show what  the money was spent  on. 
I think even from the first transaction of £1,304.21,  as it was so out of character Coventry 
couldve taken steps to intervene, such as blocking the account until they could verify the 
transactions with Mr H. Had they done so, I believe its more  likely than not Mr H wouldve 
left the bar, and not been scammed for the subsequent transactions. 
I think by not doing  so Coventry havent treated  Mr H fairly and failed in their obligations  to 
protect him from financial  harm. So, to put things right I said Coventry  should:
Refund the disputed transactions totaling £10,737.42,  along with the international 
purchase fees associated with these transactions.
Add 8% simple interest per year to this amount, from the date of payment  to the date 
of settlement
Mr H responded to say he accepted the provisional  decision. Coventry  accepted the 
provisional decision. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment  I can go ahead 
and issue my decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or submissions for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained  in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN22879865For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put 
things right Coventry Building Society must do the following:
Refund the disputed transactions totaling £10,737.42,  along with the international 
purchase fees associated with these transactions.
Add 8% simple interest per year to this amount, from the date of payment  to the date 
of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2021.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2287986