K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain, with the help of their representative Mrs M, that the Decreasing
Term Assurance policy (DTA) they were advised  to take out by IFS Risk Solutions (UK)
Limited to provide life cover for their mortgage  was unsuitable for their needs.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. I upheld the complaint  and said I thought IFS should refund the 
premiums Mr and Mrs P paid for the DTA.
Mrs M, on behalf  of Mr and Mrs P, accepted my provisional decision but IFS didnt. 
It made  the following comments:
The clients were in severe financial difficulty at the time of advice and had agreed  
they wanted to pay off their debts over a period of 10 years and to achieve this their 
finances were restructured.
To free up expenditure a DTA was the most  cost effective way to match  cover  to 
anticipated repayments.
If the adviser wasnt acting in the clients best interests he wouldve recommended  
whole of life (WOL)  cover or a level term assurance (LTA) and received increased 
commission.
The clients didnt change their spending  habits as intended  they had £1,000  plus 
available after restructuring their finances.
Mr and Mrs P stated  they thought the DTA was fit to protect the mortgage,  which  is 
agreed. They were  fully aware  of what they were entering  into as seen by the 
documentation they were given
How can they suggest they werent made  aware  of the details of the cover when they 
had a meeting  with the adviser a few weeks after the initial  sign-up to detail the 
revised terms of the DTA which they signed  up to.
The fact find signed on 10 August  2010 shows they didnt have existing life cover  to 
protect their existing mortgage which shows the clients  only wanted to protect  the 
additional mortgage for 10 years  after which the debt shouldve been cleared.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the points raised by IFS but it has provided  no new evidence or 
information that would lead me to change my provisional decision. It has mostly repeated  
points that it has previously made and which I took into account  when  making my provisional 
decision. 
It repeats  that the DTA was recommended because Mr and Mrs P intended to pay the 
additional borrowing  off in 10 years. But as I said in my provisional  decision,  there  is nothing  
in the documents completed at the time to support that this was what  was intended.
I acknowledge that the adviser couldve potentially earned more commission selling a 
different product but that doesnt mean he got things  right by recommending  the DTA.
Ref: DRN21128972IFS has pointed to the fact find showing that Mr and Mrs P didnt have cover for the existing 
mortgage  although Mrs M suggest there  was some  cover - and suggests that this showed 
they only wanted to protect  the additional borrowing. But this isnt persuasive  evidence of 
what cover  they needed as a result of the advisers recommendation because  their 
borrowing changed significantly as a result of the advice.
As a result of the advisers  recommendation Mr and Mrs P changed their existing mortgage, 
of around £83,000,  from capital repayment   with a term that finished  in only seven  years  - 
to interest only over their lifetime with the additional  borrowing of around £54,000 on the 
same basis.  
So in reality after the advice there was only one total amount of £137,000 in a lifetime 
interest- only mortgage. So what Mr and Mrs P had decided to do previously with regard to 
protecting their capital  repayment mortgage I dont think  provides any evidence  of what they 
needed once they changed to a lifetime interest-only  mortgage.
I think treating the total mortgage  amount of £137,000 as if it was two separate  amounts  is 
artificial and doesnt reflect the reality  of what Mr and Mrs P actually had as a result of the 
advice they were given.  Protecting less than half of this amount on a decreasing  term basis  
made little sense and provided very limited  benefit to Mr and Mrs P. 
I note what IFS has said about  Mr and Mrs Ps understanding of the cover,  but Im not 
satisfied they did properly understand what they had been recommended or the cover they 
needed.
IFS should put things right by repaying the premiums with simple  interest  at 8% each year 
payable on each premium  from the date each  premium was paid to the date of settlement.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and in my provisional 
decision. IFS Risk Solutions (UK) Limited has to pay the redress  I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21128973COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain, with the help of their representative Mrs M, that the Decreasing  Term  
Assurance policy (DTA) they were advised to take out by IFS Risk Solutions (UK) Limited to provide 
life cover for their mortgage  was unsuitable for their needs.
background
In 2010 Mr and Mrs P were  recommended  an interest only mortgage to replace their existing capital 
repayment mortgage of around £83,000 and to provide additional funds of £53,600 to consolidate 
debts. They were also recommended a DTA for £60,000 over a term of 10 years.
IFS didnt  uphold  the complaint. It said that Mr and Mrs P had sought  advice because  they were in 
financial difficulty. It said the adviser recommended transfer of their existing mortgage of £83,000 and 
further advance borrowing  to an interest only mortgage  to consolidate debts  and they were made fully 
aware of the nature of the life cover that was recommended to cover the additional  borrowing.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt uphold  it. He said that a Level term 
Assurance (LTA) or whole of life (WOL)  policy  wouldve provided more  suitable cover for the 
mortgage. But he wasnt satisfied that Mr and Mrs P couldve  afforded the premium that wouldve 
been payable for either type of cover given  their financial circumstances at the time.  He said that 
whilst the DTA wasnt entirely suitable it did provide some  cover for 10 years and the premiums were 
affordable.
Mrs M responded and said that Mr and Mrs P thought the DTA was fit to protect  the mortgage  and 
that they already had other life cover they were paying for the original mortgage when they saw the 
adviser in 2010. She said that if the DTA had been explained  to them they wouldnt have taken it out 
and they feel they have been misled into taking out a policy that was not fit for its purpose.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Despite both a fact find and suitability report being available from 2010 I think it is of note that it is 
very unclear  why the adviser recommended a DTA for £60,000. He advised Mr and Mrs P about  a 
total interest only mortgage amount of around £137,000 but made  no recommendation for cover for 
the balance of the mortgage  above £60,000.
There is no question that a DTA for an interest only mortgage isnt generally a suitable  
recommendation so I wouldve expected some explanation why it was being  recommended  to Mr and 
Mrs P but the adviser  has not set out his reasons why this was suitable  in this case. 
The DTA was only for 10 years and the interest only mortgage was a lifetime mortgage  with no set 
term - although there was a nominal term of 15 years.
The suitability letter stated that:
On review of your existing financial position shows that you have inadequate life cover  to repay your 
mortgage if you were  to die during the repayment term. I have therefore recommended that you take 
out a life cover  policy with a term of 10 years on your joint lives.
But, as I have  said, there  was no term of the mortgage  it was a lifetime mortgage.  The only term 
referred to in the documents is the nominal term which was 15 years and not 10. 
Ref: DRN21128974IFS have  said that it was Mr and Mrs Ps intention to make overpayments  on the additional advance 
sufficient to clear the debt in 10 years. But it has provided  no evidence of this and there is nothing in 
the fact find or suitability report to suggest this was an intention. 
IFS has referred to the mortgage  fact find recording that Mr and Mrs P wanted no early  repayment 
charge on full or part repayment and wanted the ability  to vary the repayment amount and suggests  
this showed they intended to pay the mortgage off early. 
But given this was a lifetime mortgage I think all this shows is that Mr and Mrs P wanted the option of 
paying the mortgage off before they died. But it isnt evidence there was any plan to do so, and 
certainly isnt evidence  they intended to do so over 10 years.
If the additional  mortgage  amount wasnt going to be paid off in 10 years then a DTA for that term was 
clearly not suitable.
I have considered what alternatives were available to Mr and Mrs P. A whole of life policy wouldve  
provided cover until they died, whenever that might have been,  so would have been  suitable cover for 
a mortgage with no set term. But given their ages at the time they took out the mortgage I think  this is 
likely to have been too expensive.
Another alternative wouldve been a level term assurance.  This would  at least have ensured that the 
level of cover didnt drop over the term of the policy. So if they died whilst the policy  was in force  this 
wouldve paid off the full amount of the additional borrowing, compared  to the DTA which  would only 
have paid off a proportion of it. 
This wouldve been a better option than a DTA. An LTA providing the same level of cover wouldve 
cost around £145 compared to the cost of £83 for the DTA.  But given Im not satisfied there was a 
clear intention  to pay off the additional borrowing in 10 years anyway  Im not satisfied an LTA over 
that term wouldve been  a suitable alternative.
Im also mindful  that the DTA only covered  £60,000 of a total mortgage amount of around £137,000  
and there  was no recommendation for cover with regard  to the balance.  Mrs M has said that Mr and 
Mrs P had an existing LTA which provided cover  of £50,000 with a term of 15 years which wouldve 
ended in 2016  but says they were advised  to change this to the DTA. If that is right they had no life 
cover for the existing mortgage amount after 2010. 
Even if they had kept that policy it didnt provide  the cover they needed for the existing mortgage 
amount given  it would only have provided cover  for six more years  after they re-mortgaged in 2010.
In summary the DTA policy  was unsuitable because there is no evidence Mr and Mrs P intended to 
pay the additional borrowing  off within 10 years, or any particular period of time. I think  a WOL policy 
wouldve been  too expensive  and although they might  possibly have had an LTA over a longer term, 
given they didnt have  cover for the majority of the mortgage Im not satisfied that life cover was a 
priority such that they wouldve been willing to pay the additional cost of such  cover.
In the circumstances I think IFS should repay Mr and Mrs P the premiums they paid for the DTA 
together with simple interest at 8% on each premium from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained.  IFS Risk Solutions (UK) Limited has to pay 
the redress  it calculates  is due as set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2112897