K820x#14complaint
Miss Y says that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA), which was a packaged  account, in 2010. 
background
Miss Ys account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free  account in December 2007,
Converted to an URCA packaged account in March 2010,
Converted back to a fee-free account  in February 2019. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think that the URCA had been  mis-sold. 
Miss Y disagreed with this so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Ys complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that Halifax mis-sold  the URCA. Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided an account conversion  form that Miss Y completed at the time of the 
sale. So I can see Miss Y consented to take out the URCA. 
Miss Y says she was in financial difficulties and went to a Halifax  branch to discuss her 
account. She says she was told she needed the URCA  to have an overdraft and she 
wouldnt be eligible  for one on her fee-free account.  
Halifax has evidenced that Miss Y first took out an overdraft of £200 when she opened her 
account in December 2007. This was only increased to £250  in February 2011, almost a 
year after the account was converted to the URCA. So I can see that Miss Y was aware  that 
she could have an overdraft on her fee-free account.  And when her account was converted,  
she didnt opt to amend the overdraft  in any way. So I think  its more likely she was aware 
she didnt have to have the URCA to have or amend  the overdraft on the account. 
In December 2009, just three months  before Miss Y converted the account, Halifax  changed 
the charging structure of overdrafts on its fee-free accounts. Now consumers would incur a 
daily £1 planned overdraft  usage fee. One of the benefits of the URCA was an interest  and 
fee-free planned  overdraft of up to £300. This means that if a consumer stayed within  the 
£300 planned overdraft limit, they wouldnt have to pay the daily £1 overdraft usage fee. The 
monthly fee for the URCA was £12.50,  so as long as they used their overdraft within the 
£300 fee-free  portion  for 13 days or more each month, they were  financially better  off by 
having the URCA.
Miss Y had a planned overdraft limit of £200  at the time of the sale,  which was within the 
interest and fee-free portion that the URCA offered. Looking at her overdraft usage for the 
three months following the change in the charging structure, she was regularly  in her 
overdraft and receiving  planned overdraft charges of between £26 and £31. By taking the 
Ref: DRN24371392URCA, Miss Y didnt pay these fees while  she was within her planned overdraft limit of £200  
and instead only paid the monthly account  fee of £12.50. 
So as long as Miss Y continued to use the account as she had been, converting the account 
to the URCA would save her money  each month. While I cant know  exactly what was 
discussed at the time, on balance it seems most likely that the overdraft  benefits  were 
explained to Miss Y and are the main reason why Miss Y chose to take out the URCA,  even  
though she may not have been interested in the other  benefits  it provided. And I think its 
more likely that she did so, knowing she didnt have to have the URCA and couldve kept her 
existing account  and continued to pay the £1 daily overdraft usage  fee instead.  
Halifax has let us know it didnt give Miss Y a personal recommendation for the URCA based 
on her individual  circumstances at the time. This means it didnt have to check  that the 
account was suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough information so she could 
understand what she was agreeing to. 
At the time of the sale, the account  included worldwide travel insurance,  breakdown  cover, 
mobile phone insurance,  home emergency  cover  and the overdraft benefits as explained 
above, amongst  other products. As Halifax was trying  to sell Miss Y an account with an 
increased fee, I think its more likely the Halifax  representative told Miss Y about the benefits 
to make the account  more attractive to her.
Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Miss Y everything it should have about the URCA. And I 
appreciate that now, given what  she may have read or heard about packaged bank 
accounts, Miss Y may believe the URCA may have been  mis-sold. But because  I think  
Miss Y took the URCA to benefit from at least the overdraft  benefits - which  she has. And I 
havent seen enough to make me think that Miss Y wouldnt still have taken the account 
even if Halifax had told her more about it. 
On balance I think its more likely  than not that Miss Y chose to take out the URCA after 
having a reasonable  idea of what it entailed. So overall, I dont think Halifax  mis-sold the 
URCA to Miss Y. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2437139