K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as VW Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Ms T under a hire purchase agreement with VW Financial 
Services that she signed in June 2018.  She says that the infotainment system keeps 
freezing when she connects her phone and it doesnt turn off until the battery  dies in the car. 
She said that she noticed the problem about  two weeks  after the car was supplied  to her and 
that the same problem  happened twelve times before she complained. She says that the 
dealer has attempted to repair the fault but says that its caused by a software issue.  
She complained to VW Financial Services in October 2018. It said that the dealer had found 
poor connections in the back of the system  so the unit was replaced  and further tests  were 
carried out over four days and the issue was resolved. But it said that the manufacturer  was 
aware of issues with the system and was working on an enhancement. But as a gesture of 
goodwill it offered  to cover the cost of a Bluetooth product up to the value of £100 to allow  
Ms T to continue using  her media  until the enhancement was released.  And it offered to pay 
her £1,000 as a goodwill  gesture in full and final settlement of her complaint. Ms T didnt 
accept its offer and complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She felt that VW 
Financial Services offer of £1,100 compensation fairly acknowledged the inconvenience that 
Ms T had experienced and should  be paid to her. But where  she hadnt received a resolution  
for the continuing  fault, she recommended that it should reduce Ms Ts monthly payments by 
10% until she received  the software  update to repair  the fault and, if the software update  is 
unsuccessful, that it should replace the car. 
VW Financial Services agreed to reduce the monthly payments by 5% for the remainder of 
the agreement  and that was accepted  by Ms T  but it says that the issue  is caused by 
Ms Ts phone which isnt compatible with the car and that wont be fixed  by replacing the car. 
So it has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. And Ms T has 
provided further video  evidence  to show that the system continues to freeze.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms T 
and to VW Financial Services on 4 February 2020.  In my provisional  decision I said as 
follows:
VW Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring  that 
it was of satisfactory quality. Whether or not it was will depend on a number of 
factors, including the age, and mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. 
The car that was supplied  to Ms T was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for her to expect that it would be free from even minor defects. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN26635412Ms T says that the infotainment system started freezing about two weeks after the 
car was supplied to her. The car has been  returned  to the dealer which  was initially  
unable to find a fault but then found  some  loose wiring so replaced the unit. But Ms T 
says that the fault has continued to occur.  The car has also been inspected by an 
independent expert  but no fault was found.
VW Financial Services said that the manufacturer is aware of an issue with the 
infotainment system in some models that causes it to freeze when some phones are 
connected by a cable and its working on an enhancement which would be released.  
But Ive seen no evidence  to show that such an enhancement has been released  or 
that its dealt with the issue  which  is affecting Ms Ts car. 
It says that the problem  is likely  to be caused by Ms Ts phone. But shes been 
provided with courtesy cars by the dealer and she says that shes  been able to 
connect her phone in those  cars without any problems. And she says that the fault 
occurs with her car whether the phone is connected by cable  or by Bluetooth and 
occurs whether or not the phone is connected. She says that the infotainment  stops 
playing or turns off and restarts or continues to play and stays frozen until the car 
battery dies or until she detaches the battery.
These problems have continued  for more than eighteen months and I dont consider 
that its reasonable to expect a new car to have such on-going  issues.  So I consider  
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Ms T. And I find that 
it would  be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for her to reject  the car and 
the agreement  to be ended. The agreement shows that Ms T made an advance 
payment of £3,000 for the car and I find that VW Financial Services should  refund to 
Ms T any advance payment that she made for the car (with interest). If she didnt 
make such  a payment  then I ask VW Financial  Services  in its response to my 
provisional decision to explain  the advance payment. 
Ms T has been able to use the car but, in response  to the investigators  
recommendations, VW Financial Services agreed  to refund to Ms T 5% of her 
monthly payments  for the remainder of the agreement. I consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for it to refund to her 5% of the all of the monthly payments that shes  
made under the agreement (with interest) because of the impaired use that shes  had 
from the car. It can keep  95% of the monthly payments that shes made as payment 
for the use that shes had from the car.
VW Financial Services offered to reimburse  Ms T upto £100 for a Bluetooth  product 
and to pay her £1,000  in settlement of her complaint. She didnt accept  that offer and 
has continued with her complaint. But her issues with the car will have  caused  her 
considerable distress  and inconvenience. So I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for VW Financial Services to also pay £250 to Ms T to compensate her 
for that distress and inconvenience.     
So subject to any further representations by Ms T or VW Financial Services, my provisional  
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Both Ms T and VW Financial Services have accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN26635413my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both Ms T and VW Financial Services  
have accepted my provisional decision, theres  no reason for me to change that decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint and I order  
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as VW Financial Services, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Ms T  
both at no cost to her.
2.Refund to Ms T any advance payment that she made for the car.
3.Refund to Ms T 5% of the monthly  payments that shes  made  under the agreement.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Pay £250 to Ms T to compensate  her for the distress and inconvenience  that shes  
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires VW Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest  
payment referred  to at 4 above. VW Financial Services  must give Ms T a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2663541