K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained because BUPA Insurance Limited refuses to remove  a 50% age-
related loading to the premium for her private medical insurance policy.
background
In 2006, at the age of 69, Mrs D took out a private medical insurance policy  with BUPA. 
Because she was aged over 60 at the time of taking out the policy, BUPA told her she had to 
pay 50% extra for the cost of her cover.
In 2018, Mrs D still had the policy and was still paying the 50% loading  to her premium.  She 
told BUPA  that shed  calculated shed now paid more in total over the years than someone 
the same  age as her but who may have taken out the policy ten years sooner, just before 
they were 60. She said it wasnt stated in the policys terms and conditions that there would 
be a permanent 50% loading to her premium. She therefore asked it to remove the loading. 
BUPA wouldnt do this. Mrs D therefore  referred her complaint  to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He noted BUPAs 
explanation that the loading was necessary because of the greater risk of serious health 
issues arising among  over-60s combined  with the fact that people joining after this age 
hadnt contributed  to the basic sustainability of the insurance policy.  He was satisfied that 
BUPA had acted  fairly and wasnt obliged to remove the loading.
Mrs D didnt accept the investigators findings.  She maintained that she was no greater 
insurance risk than other people of her age, and indeed was less of a risk because  she was 
unable to claim for conditions which existed before she belatedly  took out the policy.  And 
since she had now paid more in total premiums  than would someone of her age but who had 
joined the scheme just before their 60th birthday,  she considered  it was unjust for her to 
continue having  to pay the 50% extra premium, particularly as that other person would have  
had the benefit of ten years extra cover.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provide it exercises this discretion fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is an area in which we wouldnt normally interfere.
BUPA, in common with other private health  insurers, takes account of someones  age in 
determining their premium. When Mrs D took out the policy,  the policy  document  had a table, 
broken down into age categories, showing much  the policy  would cost at that time for 
anyone up to the age of 60. It also showed the cost for anyone over the age of 60 though it 
made clear that this was only applicable to existing members. The policy document  stated: 
If you have  reached the age of 60 at the time of application, the premium will be increased.  
BUPA has explained  that this is because of the greater risk of serious  health  issues arising 
Ref: DRN26555642among over-60s combined with the fact that people joining after this age hadnt contributed 
to the basic sustainability of the insurance  policy. I find this to be fair.
Mrs D contacted BUPA and it explained  that in her case the premium  would  be subject to a 
loading of 50%. BUPA has provided evidence  which satisfies me that this is the loading  it 
would have charged to anyone else in Mrs Ds situation. Im satisfied this was fair. BUPA 
gave no indication to lead Mrs D to believe this loading was time-limited.  Mrs D was happy to 
take out the policy on this basis.
Mrs D has continued to renew the policy  and pay the 50% loading  but has worked  out that, 
in retrospect, she would have paid less overall  if she had joined the scheme  ten years earlier 
than when she did. She believes she is no more of a risk than someone  currently  of her age 
who had joined the scheme ten years sooner and can see no justification  for the continued  
charging of the 50% addition. I understand her argument. But insurance premiums do not 
necessarily perfectly reflect risk, and nor is an insurer obliged  to ensure that they do so.
As I explained earlier, it is up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its policies. 
BUPA has chosen  to adopt a fairly straightforward  pricing model for this particular policy  and 
I am satisfied that it is essentially fair. By continuing to apply the 50% loading, BUPA is 
treating Mrs D the same as anyone else of her age who joined the scheme when she did. If it 
wishes to exercise discretion and withdraw  the loading in her particular case, that is up to 
BUPA. But I dont feel I can reasonably tell it to do this because  this would effectively be 
telling BUPA that the loading for those joining the scheme after the age of 60 must be time-
limited. Doing this, in my opinion, is going  beyond my role and would mean I was unduly 
interfering in its legitimate  commercial decision-making.
In summary,  I agree with Mrs D that she has ended up with a worse deal than a hypothetical  
person of the same age as her who happened to take out the policy ten years before her. 
But that doesnt persuade  me that BUPA has acted unfairly by refusing to remove  her 50% 
loading. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2655564