K820x#14Complaint
Mrs R says TSB Bank  plc should have done  more to recover her funds when she was the 
victim of a scam and that it should  reimburse  the money she lost.
Background
On 13 March 2019 Mrs R authorised  an online  payment  of £1,000  to who she believed was 
a friend  in need of financial help. She contacted  TSB on 16 March 2019 to confirm shed 
been the victim of a scam  her friends SIM card had been  cloned and a scammer had sent 
the request for money to Mrs R in a text purporting  to be from her friend. 
TSB contacted the beneficiary bank  (the bank used by the scammer) on 18 March 2019  to 
try and recover Mrs Rs funds. Unfortunately,  the beneficiary bank responded to advise only 
partial funds  around £21  remained.  TSB informed Mrs R that the remaining funds would 
be credited to her account and that it was unable to do anything further to recover the funds.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mrs R complained to us. Our adjudicator  didnt recommend 
the complaint  be upheld  as they didnt think TSB ought to have done more  to identify the 
payment as potentially  fraudulent in the circumstances.  And they felt TSB had done  enough  
to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. 
Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case was passed to me to review  
afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like TSB are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence  (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers (Principle 6).  
Ref: DRN20610982And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mrs R when she transferred £1,000, or whether it should have done more  than it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mrs R lost almost all of this money.  But, having looked  at the 
circumstances, I do think TSB acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the money to leave 
Mrs Rs account. And I dont think the steps  it took to try and recover  funds from the 
beneficiary bank  caused  her any loss. So, I dont believe it needs to reimburse  Mrs R for the 
money she lost. Ill explain why.
Mrs Rs accepted that she authorised the transfer  herself. Because of this, TSB had an 
obligation to follow Mrs Rs instruction. But there are some situations  in which  it should  
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  From  what Ive seen, there isnt anything remarkable about 
the payment in terms of either its value or the payment type that ought to have alerted TSB 
to the scam. I can see from some  of Mrs Rs previous bank statements that shed made at 
least one payment of a similar value, and using  the same method, before. So, I dont think 
there was cause for TSBs systems to flag the payment as suspicious.
Mrs R tried to contact  TSB on 15 March 2019 when she became  aware  that shed been the 
victim of a scam  two days after authorising the payment. But she called while  the relevant 
office at TSB was closed and, not unreasonably  in my view,  was advised to call back the 
next day. She did so, after which TSB raised a scam complaint and contacted  the 
beneficiary bank  on 18 March 2019 to request a return of the funds. Unfortunately,  the 
beneficiary bank  confirmed that only partial funds remained in the account. I dont find that 
surprising given how quickly scammers typically withdraw funds. 
Ref: DRN20610983Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the beneficiary 
account werent the responsibility of TSB, and it wouldnt  have unrestricted  access  to that 
information. So, contacting the beneficiary  bank to try and retrieve the money  was all TSB 
could do to help Mrs R at that stage. Although  I believe TSB could perhaps have contacted 
the beneficiary bank  sooner than it did, Im not persuaded the delay  led to any loss. I say 
that because I can see from the transaction history  of the scammers account that the bulk of 
the money had been used by then anyway. 
I note Mrs R says TSB operated a Fraud Refund Guarantee  scheme, whereby TSB 
committed to protecting customers if theyre   as she was  the innocent  victim  of fraud. But, 
as I believe TSBs already  explained  to her, the scheme wasnt  introduced until after Mrs R 
made the payment in question. It isnt willing to retrospectively cover Mrs R and, in the 
circumstances, I cant  fairly compel  it to do so. 
While I appreciate Mrs Rs been  the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think  TSBs decision not 
to refund her the remaining amount in this instance  was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mrs Rs instruction to make the payment and I 
havent seen any reason  why it shouldnt have done  this. And I dont think the steps it took to 
try and recover the funds  once it was notified  of the scam, while  delayed,  led to any further 
loss.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2061098