K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (BoI) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in December 1999 at the same  time as taking out a 
mortgage. They applied  for the mortgage  and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W and Mrs W for accident, sickness,  and unemployment 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. 
It offered  to pay a monthly payment of £578.09 plus £150 for additional costs making a total 
monthly benefit payment of £728.09 - in the event of a successful claim. The policy had a 
benefit split of 50% each for Mr and Mrs W. At the time, it cost £45.05 a month. 
The mortgage application indicates that at the time,  Mrs W was employed as a dance  
lecturer. She told us she was entitled to six months  full sick pay. She also says she was 
entitled to redundancy pay. Mrs W has said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
The mortgage application says that at the time Mr W was employed as a service engineer. I 
think its likely he wouldve  been  entitled to at least statutory sick pay, and statutory  
redundancy pay. Mr W has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
BoI has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. It has also sent 
us evidence to show Mr and Mrs W made a successful claim on the policy.  
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
BoI failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ws representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoI should have told 
Mr and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoI should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN21674422The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in December 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005.That  means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN21674423The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoI at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoI 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoI gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoI gave  Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
Ref: DRN21674424suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and BoI, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
BoI had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage application. On it is a section  related  to insurances, and I note the box opting  for 
PPI has been  ticked.  Mr and Mrs W have signed this section, so I think  its likely to reflect 
what they wanted. There was also a No box which Mr and Mrs W couldve  ticked if they 
hadnt wanted the PPI  which has been  left blank. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoI provide advice?
Mr and Mrs W cant recall whether BoI provided  advice during the sale.  Both BoI and Mr and 
Mrs W say that advice  wasnt provided during this sale. Looking at what  happened  when  BoI 
sold Mr and Mrs W the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
This means  BoI didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs W. Instead, it had 
to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W were given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr or 
Mrs W were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the costs. 
Ive reached this conclusion because I note their mortgage offer document  states the 
monthly mortgage repayment, the monthly  benefit, and how long it would pay out for. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoI gave sufficient information 
about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think BoI gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
Ref: DRN21674425information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ws. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoI ought to have done either. 
what effect did BoIs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs W suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that BoI didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs W. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs W would  have still taken out the policy, had BoI done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs W say they would  not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr or Mrs W being  unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs W thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs W have  suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs W were given about the cost, benefit and how long the policy 
would pay out for was clear. But the information  about other aspects  of the policy,  such as 
the limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN21674426The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  due to or arising  from any 
condition, injury,  illness, disease,  sickness or related  condition,  whether diagnosed or 
not ,which they knew about, or should reasonably have known about at the start date 
of the policy, or which they had seen or arranged to see a doctor  about  during the 12 
months immediately before the start date which causes disability during the 12 
months immediately following the start date; and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr or Mrs 
W werent permanent  employees.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr and Mrs W were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr or Mrs W wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr and Mrs W 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and were both in permanent employment.  
So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs W would  have expected to make a disability claim  on the policy  without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr and Mrs W needed  to be totally unable to carry out the duties 
of their normal job and not be doing any other  work. I dont  think  this is likely to be too 
different to what they would have expected to make a claim. After  all, the mortgage 
application form says the policy provides cover if you lose your income because of 
unemployment, and accident or sickness. So it seems  unlikely  they would have thought 
theyd be able to make a successful claim if they were still working, whether that be in their 
normal job or any other job.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr or Mrs W were  made redundant, or unable  to work through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs W would  have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN21674427the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Ws circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs W found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoI should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think BoI misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoIs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoI failed to act fairly 
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoI  gave Mr and Mrs W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find BoI negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoI had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN21674428Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2167442