K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) charged an additional  monthly rental after he 
settled his finance agreement with them.
background
Mr T took receipt  of a new car in February  2018.  He financed the deal through a two year 
hire agreement with Lex and in October  2018 he received,  at his request, a quote to settle 
the agreement  early. He says he was told that if he paid the settlement  figure  there would be 
nothing else to pay. So he made  the payment on 26 October and the car was returned  on 8 
November 2018.  But he was disappointed to subsequently  be asked to pay a further finance 
instalment that Lex said was due for the billing period in which the vehicle was returned 
(November).
He complained to Lex but they said theyd not received the November payment and that, as 
the invoices for monthly rentals are produced on the first of the month, the monthly  rental 
that falls within the period he had chosen to terminate was November. And this hadnt been 
paid and was due. But they did understand that the quote hed been  sent could be a little 
misleading as it was valid for part of October  and November. So in recognition of that they 
offered Mr T £25 to compensate him for this.
But Mr T wasnt satisfied with their offer and he referred his complaint to this service where 
our investigator provided his view. He noted that the early termination quotation said:
note the quoted values assume  that all invoiced rentals have been paid and the vehicle 
will be returned in the corresponding  month
He said the invoice Mr T received on 16 October needed to be paid on 1 November 2018 
and this would have covered the November payment. Lex assumed this payment was made 
when they provided  the quote so the investigator understood that the fee was due and didnt  
think Lex had done anything wrong  when  requesting  it.
But he did think their communication with Mr T could have  been  better. He thought the 
invoice wasnt particularly  clear and he noted  that Lex agreed as theyd offered Mr T £25 
compensation. But he also noted that Mr T complained he was told that hed have  nothing  
further to pay during  a phone call he said hed had with Lex. They  couldnt provide a copy of 
that call but the investigator was persuaded that the settlement  process probably wasnt 
adequately explained to Mr T during  this call because he considered his subsequent actions 
were consistent with Mr Ts version of what hed been told on the call. He identified, for 
instance that Mr T had cancelled his direct debit and contacted Lex as soon as hed been 
billed so he thought it was most likely he had been told there was nothing  further to pay and 
he therefore suggested Lex provide a further  £50 compensation for the confusion theyd 
caused.
Lex accepted  the investigators view but Mr T didnt and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25972812I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Im persuaded that the November payment was due. The settlement quote said:
note the quoted values assume  that all invoiced rentals have been paid and the vehicle 
will be returned in the corresponding  month
And similarly the quotation email said:
figures provided DO NOT cover monthly  rental  for the billing period in which the vehicle is 
returned
And as the vehicle  was returned  in November the corresponding  invoice that was raised on 
October 16 would  need  to be paid  but wasnt  and was therefore due.
But this wasnt an easy concept  to relay as the handback of the car spanned  two months  
and it would be difficult to understand which was the corresponding  month. 
I agree  with the investigator and Lex that more could have been done to clarify the position 
and their somewhat  generic quotation was difficult to understand. 
Whilst the lack of a call recording means I cant be certain  if the settlement figures were 
explained in better detail  during the call Mr T had with Lex I think, on the balance of 
probabilities, they werent. I say that because I agree that Mr Ts subsequent actions would 
suggest the last instalment to be paid hadnt  been  clearly conveyed. So in those 
circumstances I dont  think  Lex have  provided sufficient compensation for the inconvenience 
this issue has caused Mr T. In the circumstances I agree that they should pay an additional 
£50.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Lex Autolease  Ltd to 
pay Mr T an additional £50 compensation in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience  
their actions have caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2597281