K822xcomplaint
Ms Cs complaint is about the handling  of a central heating  and gas appliance insurance
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in October 2020, part of which is copied below: 
Ms C has held a policy with British  Gas for some years, which includes an annual  service of
the gas appliances and boiler  in her home. In January and February 2019, British  Gas
attended to service the gas fire. Its engineers deemed the fire to be at risk or dangerous, as
they said there was a grill in the flue. The engineers told Ms C shed need to get a builder
out to remove the grill from the chimney and this is not covered under her policy.
Ms C got her own independent gas engineer to look at the fire. He took out the whole fire
and said there was no evidence of any grill.
Ms C is very unhappy about this and says British Gass engineers have told her there  was a
grill in the flue at several previous service  visits. She was told it would be removed by British
Gas previously. And as a result  of it not issuing  her gas safety certificate  in January 2019, a
student had to move out and she was unable to take other bookings, causing her loss of
earnings.
Ms C has also raised a complaint about  a number of other issues she has had with British
Gas over the last few years.  I have issued a decision separately to set out which  parts of her
complaint we are able to look into. As explained  in that decision,  some parts of Ms Cs
complaint are not matters that we can look at.
The issues  I am able to consider are:
1. the complaint about misdiagnosis  of a problem with the gas fire flue and the effect
this had on Ms C. She says this has happened at annual  services going back  to 2016
and she has lost income as a host for foreign students as a result,  because  she was
unable to produce a landlords gas safety certificate,  as required.
2. A complaint that British  Gas cut the wire ties which secured the gas fire to the wall,
leaving it dangerous and at risk of falling and causing  a fire in her home;  and
3. at another  annual service of the gas fire, British Gas said there were coals missing
which meant the fire was at risk. Ms C says the coals had simply been moved by her
grandson but this again meant it would not produce  the gas safety certificate  Ms C
needed.
Ms C says this matter has caused  her considerable distress over a number of years. She
has asked for a refund of the premiums paid for the policy; the £200 she paid to her
engineer; £7,500 for pain and suffering  caused  by this matter,  including  not being able to 
use her gas fire when it was deemed at risk; reimbursement for replacement  coals; and 
around £5,000  for loss of rent since October  2016
British Gas accepts that its engineers made a mistake about  there  being  a grill in the flue; it
says it has fed back  on this. It offered to reimburse the £200 for Ms Cs engineers costs;
refund of the gas appliance cover for the year January 2018 to January 2019 and pay some
compensation as recognition of the problems with the overall service provided (this made  a
Ref: DRN27418552total payment  of £375, increased  from £350). I understand British Gas sent a cheque for this
amount in March/April 2019.
With regard to the wires and the coals for the fire, British  Gas says it identified  the issues
during an annual service  of the fire in 2014  but its engineers would not have cut the wires.
British Gas says this is something  that was likely to have been done  at installation,  in order
to enable an engineer to inspect the chimney  and flue with a mirror,  without having  to
remove the fire. It says this is not good practice and its engineers  would not service a gas
fire this way, as they would always remove the fire when inspecting the chimney/flue. British
Gas does however,  say this should  have  been  picked up sooner than it was and so agreed
to re-fit the wires at no cost Ms C.
With regard to the gas fire coals, British Gas says the fire was classified as "at risk" due to
some coals  being  missing and it arranged for replacement coals  as a gesture of goodwill and
a replacement Gas Safety  Certificate was issued on 27 February 2014. British Gas doesnt
agree it is responsible for any delay in being able to issue  that certificate and therefore is not
responsible for the financial consequences of that delay.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He said initially that the evidence  suggested
the student had been  asked to move  out due to behavioural issues  and that British Gass
offer of compensation was reasonable.  After receipt  of evidence from the college attended
by the student,  he changed his mind and said that British Gas should  reimburse loss of
earnings from 4 February to 21 June 2019  (i.e. £3,497.14) plus interest at our usual rate;
and pay the £375 already offered.
Neither British Gas nor Ms C accept the investigators assessment.
Ms C says the investigator is biased  and has not considered all the evidence properly.
She has made a number  of points, which Ive summarised below:
British Gas has been aware of her disabilities for many years, yet it has continued
to leave her and her tenants at risk and given her false information. This issue has
been ongoing since 30 October 2016.
Her relationship  and credibility with the colleges has been damaged, as she was not
able to offer a safe home to students. She has no other income and this caused  her
loss of earnings, due to repeated at risk notices addressed  to her students and the
gas fire being turned off.
Only after she was able to get a safety certificate  from her own gas engineer in
March 2019 was she able to make  bookings for students again.
The investigator referred to putting her back in the position she was in before this
incident, which suggests this was a single incident  instead of an ongoing issue.
The investigator suggested a letter from the college would help substantiate her
claim for loss of earnings  for the one student, however he didnt mention the
considerable loss of earnings with all the language  schools that she was unable to
host, during the months she was unable to provide the legally obligated  safety
certificate. This was never taken into account,  even though she proved this by
providing confirmed  bookings from the various language schools which she would
have been able to do with a safety  certificate.
Ms C also referred to information  on British Gass website which  says it will pay
compensation for any missed appointments. She says she has reported many  
missed appointments  for repairs to her dishwasher, but always  get excuses, or 
letters, never payments.
Ref: DRN27418553British Gas also does  not accept the investigators  assessment. It says Ms C should have
arranged for her own engineer to look at the flue sooner, if she knew  it was going to result in
her student  moving  out. It says it is not responsible for any consequential  losses  and its offer
is reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
flue
British Gas initially said there was no record of the grill or flue being raised as a problem
before January 2019, or of Ms C being told it would carry out any work to remove  the grill.
However, I have seen copies of job sheets left by British Gas engineers  from 2017 and 2018
which show this was raised at various  times  during that period, and that it had offered to
rectify this.
In March 2019, Ms Cs own engineer inspected the fire. He said:
Arrived at property to remove  grill from chimney breast on inspection  and removal  of gas
fire found the chimney/flue to be clear  throughout its entirety  to the terminal.  Performed full
inspection and service  to current regulations.
I understand British  Gas accepted that there  was never any grill in the flue. It is quite
extraordinary that this was misdiagnosed so frequently and nothing  done about it. British
Gas had offered  to remove the grill but this didnt happen. As a consequence  of the
misdiagnosis, British Gas wrongly  told Ms C that her fire was at risk, which  prevented the
production of her landlords safety  certificates.
I agree  that compensation for the trouble  this caused is appropriate. I can also consider
Ms Cs claim  for financial loss as a result of this. In order to require British  Gas to reimburse
any financial  loss, however, I have to be satisfied  that any such loss arose  solely and directly
as a result  of British  Gass  wrongdoing.
Ms C says she lets out rooms to foreign language  students via various colleges. She says
she lost income as a result of the problems  with British Gas in 2016 onwards. However,
there is no documentary evidence to support any such losses.  Ms C has provided  details  of
bookings but no convincing evidence of lost bookings  or a refusal to book her in 2016, 2017
or 2018, due to this. And she has confirmed  she was always  able to produce  the gas safety
certificate to the colleges for the previous years.
Ms C also says a student that was meant to stay with her for a few months from January
2019 had to move out in February  2019, as a result of not having the safety certificate and
she lost other income in the following months also.
Ms C has sent a copy of her rental  agreement  which  stipulates  that gas safety certificates
are required.  She has also provided  confirmation for a booking  for one student from 28
January to 21 June  2019. The student apparently duly arrived on 28 January 2019 and
moved out on 4 February 2019.  (Elsewhere  Ms C has referred to him being there from 23
January 2019  and there is a plane  ticket/itinerary for him arriving in the UK on 23 January
2019 but I dont think  the date he arrived at Ms Cs property to be critical.) Ms C wants  the
Ref: DRN27418554loss of rent for the remaining period from 4 February  to 21 June 2019.
The student was only there for a short time (a week according to the documentation but
possibly up to 13 days) and there were apparently behavioural issues  during that time.
In an email to us dated 21 June 2019, Ms C said the student
moved out 04/02/2019. * two reasons:
1. I was unable  to supply the School with a complete Landlords Safety Certificate,  as
there was an on-going  dispute over the so-called 'grille' in the flue, therefore I was
concerned I was in breach of my legal contractual obligations. The following morning,
on 05/02/2019 during  my Landlords Gas Safety Inspection  & Check by British Gas, it
was clearly confirmed that I was in fact in breach of my contract with ALL the
Language Schools, as it was printed clearly that "the grille" in chimney was at Risk
and the Gas supply was TURNED  OFF.  & a WARNING NOTICE WAS LEFT  ON MY
GAS FIRE. I was legally  obligated  to inform  the Schools.
2. As his suite had a lounge area,  and the fire in the main Lounge was 'turned off', he
chose to return each  day after school to go to his own centrally  heated suite, where
he had the privacy and comfort of an additional  electric wall heater and comfortable
Lounge area.
I do not allow smoking in any of the bedrooms,  or common  areas, yet I found  clear evidence
over the time [he]  was in my home, he smoked  in his room  He was warned numerous
times, before I reported his actions to the school, yet [he] continued to smoke and burned
holes through  his bedding, on his mezzanine  floor above. He was obviously 'under the
influence ', leaving  lit cigarette  ends everywhere and therefore damaged  additional furniture
in his room. He was effectively  a 'fire risk', smoking 'pot' in his room, and burning  incense
attempting to masque the aroma. I do have smoke alarms, but only in the common areas.
These are the two reasons   [he] moved  out of my home early.  I have  zero tolerance for
alcohol & or drug abuse,  especially in my own home, considering  I have full responsibility to
monitor everyone in my care, especially under age students from various  Countries  during
their stay in my home. These  children  are easily influenced, and vulnerable.
Ms C also says had [student  name]  taken  heed  of my initial  warning of no drugs or alcohol
in my home, he would  have stayed with me from Jan 23rd 2019  June 1st 2019, as per the
original booking, at £728.00 per month.
After a request  from the investigator, for corroboration of her claim for loss of earnings,  Ms C
produced a letter from the college  that had booked in this student, which said that if it were
not for the problem with the gas safety certificate  the student  would  have stayed with Ms C
until end of May 2019. The letter from the college,  says that the behaviour issues  had been
worked through with the student:
As a[n]  accredited language centre, it is imperative that we maintain strict adherence to
policies, in particular  with regards to safety  in our linked accommodation. Following the
failure of the Annual Landlords Gas Safety Certificate in February, Ms. C informed us and
we had no option but to remove  the student  from Ms. C's residence in order  not to
jeopardise our accreditation.
However, there is no contemporaneous  evidence of any discussion or correspondence
around the decision that the student  leave. In my opinion, Ms Cs earlier communications
Ref: DRN27418555about this suggest that the students  behaviour was a more significant  factor  in the decision
for him to leave.
There is therefore some doubt  in my mind about this, given what Ms C told us previously
about why the student left her home. When also considering the timing  of the events, it casts
further doubt on the safety notice being the sole or even overriding  reason why he left.
British Gas attended on 30 January 2019 to service the gas fire, boiler and gas cooker. The
job sheets left with Ms C say that all three  passed. But there  was also a safety  warning
notice that fire was at risk and had been  turned off with permission. Ms C says (in an email
to British Gas dated 3 February 2019) she received the gas safety certificate which  said the
gas fire had not passed online on 2 February 2019.  She queried this in the email, as the
engineer had apparently told her all was okay when he attended on 30 January 2019,  so he
came back  out on 5 February 2019  and again  said the flue had a grill in it. So on 4 February
2019, which is the day the student moved  out, the situation was being looked into further and
another appointment made for 5 February  2019;  and it was on this date (the day after the
student moved out) that Ms C says British Gas confirmed her fire was at risk and she was
legally obliged to tell the colleges.
While I accept entirely that it is a condition  of Ms Cs contract with the language schools to
have a valid gas safety certificate  in place, I am not persuaded having taken into account
everything Ms C has said and all the evidence available, that this was the sole or overriding
cause of the loss of income from this student was solely a result  of the errors by British  Gas.
Ms C also says this meant  she could  not make  any advance bookings  for any other
students. She has provided  confirmations of several bookings for the months after this (for
May, June,  July and August 2019). However, theres no evidence  these were adversely
affected or that she was prevented from taking any other bookings as a result of damage to
her reputation.
Ms C says that no other  confirmed bookings were made  by the same language school but
theres no convincing  evidence as to why, and I note there is evidence of a further  booking
from them in June  2019).  I do not therefore  intend  to make any award for loss of earnings.
Ms C arranged for her own engineer  to attend  on 20 March  2019. He confirmed [the fire] 
was safe and she was able to provide [the certificate  he provided]  to the colleges,  as 
required under  her contract with them. She makes  the point that if she had relied on British 
Gas this would have gone on longer but it didnt and she also has an obligation to mitigate 
her losses.  She acted reasonably and had it looked at but I have to look at the actual effect 
on her. While it was her own gas engineer and not British  Gas that issued the Safety 
Certificate, it is still the date of that certificate that is relevant. Ms C had the certificate 
required in March 2019 and so I cant see any link between what British Gas did and any 
issue with these bookings.
I do, however,  accept  that this issue caused  frustration, anxiety and inconvenience  to Ms C
over a considerable time.  In addition, Ms C had to get her own engineer to check the fire. I
therefore agree that British Gas should reimburse the engineers  costs  of £200. I also
consider it should  pay some compensation for the trouble caused by the repeatedly  incorrect
assertion there was a problem with the flue and the trouble this caused. Ms C had to arrange
additional avoidable appointments to resolve  this issue each  time,  would have been  caused
anxiety about  the safety  of her fire and had to arrange her own engineer  to look at it. All this
was unnecessary. I consider that the sum of £500  is appropriate.
Ref: DRN27418556gas fire  wall ties and coals
In 2014 the gas fire was also deemed to be unsafe  as there  were  coals  missing  and the wire
connecting ties had been cut. I understand British Gas did replace the wires around three
months later. It says this was as a gesture of goodwill and its engineers would not have cut
the ties. British Gas says this was likely to have been done when the fire was installed.
One of the job sheets  from British Gas says retaining wires cut short which suggests they
were too short to then get the fire out, rather  than that they had been found  cut. It also
seems unlikely to me that anyone else cut the wires since installation, given it was
apparently installed  20 years earlier and Ms C has had cover with Ms C throughout. Given
the repeated incorrect diagnosis  of a grill in the flue, it casts some  doubt on British  Gass
engineers credibility.  And even if they did not cut them, this would have to have been
missed every time the fire was serviced. British  Gas has said its engineers  would have
removed the fire at every annual service, in order to inspect the chimney and flue. So, even
if the wires had been cut at installation (which I do not accept)  British  Gas failed to notice this
and left the fire in an unsafe  condition,  at risk of falling away  from the wall and causing  a fire
over several years. 
Ms C was unaware of this at the time,  but I understand it would have
caused her some anxiety.  I consider that £300 should be paid as compensation for this.
Ms C also says that her engineer ordered  a new fire bed and coals  which should have been
provided by British Gas.  I have not seen any convincing reason why British  Gas needed to
replace these, as Ms C says the coals  were  never  missing, as her grandson  had simply
moved them. However, I consider that a further £75 compensation is appropriate for the
deeming this to be unsafe when the coals were  not missing.
compensation
I can see that Ms C has had a long ordeal  with British Gas regarding  the gas fire, as well as
her boiler leaks etc. While  I cant look at the boiler leaks in the context  of this complaint, the
compensation I have  provisionally determined is appropriate does take account of the fact
the issues Im considering  in this decision came on top of those previous issues and so
would have been all the more frustrating  as a result. The service provided  to Ms C overall,
has not been anywhere near the standard it should have been over a considerable time.
I have set out above the compensation I consider is appropriate to reflect the trouble  caused
by the issues  I am looking at in this decision. Overall,  I have  determined  that the total sum of
£875 is appropriate, together with the refund of the gas appliance cover premium  for the
year January  2018 to January 2019;  and reimbursement  of Ms Cs engineers costs.
The information provided by Ms C in relation to compensation paid for missed appointments
is referring to British Gas as a gas supplier  not British Gas Insurance  Limited.
I know that Ms C will be disappointed with this decision, having already received a
recommendation from the investigator that she should receive some of her lost rent.
However, both parties are entitled to appeal to an ombudsman  the final stage  in our
process  and it is my role to review the matter afresh and make  my own decision as to the
appropriate outcome.
Ref: DRN27418557my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require  it to pay
Ms C:
£200 in reimbursement of her gas engineers costs, together with interest  at 8%
simple per annum from the date she paid his bill to the date of reimbursement;
refund  a years  premium for the gas appliance  cover (approximately £125 plus £15
for the gas safety  certificate); and
pay £875 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of
this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision  
British Gas has confirmed  it accepts my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. 
Ms C does not accept  my provisional  decision.  She has made a number of further 
submissions, which Ive summarised  below: 
British Gas sent a letter addressed to the tenant at her address dated 1 February 
2019, which said there was a gas appliance at the property which was unsafe. The 
student reported this to the college on 1 February 2019  and the college  therefore 
removed him from her home. 
The policy makes clear she could  void the policy if she got anyone  else to work  on 
the appliances.
Her contractor only provided her with the full Gas Safety Certificate on 20 March 
2019, which she immediately passed  onto the language schools. However, by this 
time all the students were  allocated  to other host families. Her first confirmed 
bookings after February 2019 were in mid June  2019 and these were made within  
two weeks of being able to provide the safety  certificate after her gas engineer. 
When British Gas attended again  on 5 February 2019, the engineer  told her there 
was definitely  a grill in the flue and this could trap any fallen birds or debris, which  
would immediately catch light when the fire was used. 
British Gas had also left her with a fire that was at risk of falling forward  and also 
causing a fire in her home (as a result  of the cut wires). The compensation proposed 
does not reflect the serious  concern about her and her family living  in a home at 
serious risk of fire. She has several medical  conditions which mean  she would not 
hear a fire alarm from her bedroom and so was at particular risk. 
The misdiagnosis of the grill in the flue first happened in 2013. It did not happen only 
in January and February 2019.  
British Gass negligence  has resulted  in extensive collateral damage every year since 
2013/2014, and years of torment to her, which  could all have been avoided.  
British Gas sent her a cheque for the compensation  it offered  (which was not really 
£375 but amounted to just over £60 once she had paid her engineer and other  costs) 
even though she had rejected the offer.  Is this legally  allowed?  
British Gas also refunded a years premium for the fire because it was not gas 
council registered   this has never been  mentioned before and if it needed council 
registration, she should have been told before.  
British Gas admits it identified the wires were cut during the annual service visit in 
2014 and that it should have been  picked  up sooner. It took British  Gas three months 
to fix these wires which were  urgently required.  This proves  the haphazard way it 
deals with urgent complaints.
Ref: DRN27418558With reference to the compensation  for missed appointments, British Gas does  not 
supply her gas or electric.  British Gas insurance has only paid £10.00 in total for 
each missed appointments, (not the £30.00 per missed appointment, as promised in 
its literature). She still has three un-cashed cheques for this that she also rejected.
Ms C still considers she should  be awarded  considerably higher compensation and has 
asked for just over £9,500, to include: £3,520 loss of earnings  (in relation to the student that 
left in February 2019); £1,260 for loss of future  bookings between  4 February 2019 and 20 
March 2019; and £4,000  for her time and suffering;  and a refund the gas fire premiums paid 
between 2014  and 2019.
Ms C has also raised a complaint about  the way her premium has increased over the years 
and that the same cover is currently advertised for considerably less than she is paying.  Also 
British Gas has been charging her for annual service costs of the new boiler which  came  
with a five year warranty. She has estimated she is paying around double  what she should 
have been for several years and received a poor service. I cant  address these issues in this 
decision, as they have  not been  raised before. Ms C will need to make  a separate complaint  
to British Gas about this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Ms C says the letter sent by British Gas addressed  
to the tenant at her address sent  panic  to the students in my care,  living in my home 
(which suggests there was more than one student staying with her at the time) and the 
student staying  with her from January 2019 reported  her to the language school, as a result 
of receiving that letter: 
The facts are, on Friday  1 February 2019   [X]  reported me to the school, as I mentioned 
in my previous emails. The School contacted  me the same day to clarify the situation. I 
confirmed that a British Gas engineer  was due to return on the 5 February 2019, to finally 
rectify the situation,  but unfortunately, that was too late. The School later informed me that 
they had to abide by the strict government rules, that I knew  I had no choice  but to accept.  
The School  confirmed [X]  would be found  alternative accommodation,  therefore  he would 
be moved out of my home,  to another family  at 7pm on 04/02/2019.
This is new evidence  as it has not been stated before that any student staying with Ms C 
read the letter from British  Gas or that any student  informed the college of the situation on    
1 February 2019.  However, it is not consistent with the other evidence previously provided 
about when the student left and why he left Ms Cs home. 
Ms C told us in previous  correspondence that it was after the British Gas visit on 5 February 
2019 that the fire was confirmed to be at risk and she was then obliged to tell the colleges. 
And the colleges letter provided  following the investigators initial assessment says Ms C 
reported the issue with the fire, not the student:  following  the failure of the Annual 
Landlords Gas Safety Certificate  in February,  Ms[C]  informed us and we had no option  
but to remove the student.  
Ref: DRN27418559The letter from the college  also doesnt  specify the date it was told about the gas fire issue,  
only saying February  2019.  So it does not establish that the matter  was reported to it on 1 
February, instead of 5 February 2019  (after the student had already left) as Ms C has stated 
in other  correspondence. 
In addition, I note the letter from British Gas was dated 1 February  2019  and was apparently  
sent by post, rather than email, so would not have arrived at Ms Cs property until some time 
later. (I also note 1 February 2019 was a Friday.) It seems unlikely to me therefore that the 
student reported the matter to the college  on 1 February 2019,  and more  likely Ms C told the 
college on, or after, 5 February 2019 as she has previously said.
I also note again  that there is a lack of any contemporaneous evidence  about the 
circumstances in which the student left 4 February 2019. I would have expected some 
written communication  between Ms C and the college  to have been exchanged at the time.  
Having considered everything  again (including  Ms Cs earlier correspondence which  said the 
student could  have stayed with her had he heeded her warnings about the use of drugs and 
alcohol in her home;) I am still not persuaded the student left Ms Cs home solely as a result  
of the misdiagnosis  of the safety of the gas fire. 
Ms C has also said the misdiagnosis  about  the flue started in 2013 and she has provided a 
letter from one of the language schools she works  with, dated October 2020, which  says that 
every host family has to meet  certain  criteria, including  having gas safety certificates  and 
that a student  will be immediately removed if any criteria are not met. It also says Ms C is a 
well-like and respected host and Our school  were very surprised to find over the recent  
years that Ms C was unfortunately delayed in providing us with the legally required 
Landlords Gas Safety Certificates.
However, this letter  does not prove any cancelled or failed bookings as a direct result  and so 
does not prove any loss of earnings for any particular period. And theres no other evidence  
of any lost earnings. 
In addition to the inconsistencies about the evidence provided as set out above and in my 
provisional decision, it also appears  that if the gas fire was not used,  then there was no risk. 
While it may have been inconvenient not to have that source of heating, Ms C could have 
agreed not to use the fire until it was confirmed to be safe and her gas certificate issued,  
rather than lose rental  income.  
I therefore see no reason  to change my provisional findings that British  Gas is not required 
to make any payment  for loss of earnings.  I also remain of the opinion that compensation is 
warranted, in addition to reimbursement of a years premiums and Ms Cs engineers  costs  
of £200, for the trouble caused to Ms C by the repeated misdiagnosis of the safety of the gas 
fire flue, the coals  and for the cut tension  wires.  
Ms C has said she should  receive  considerably more that I proposed, as she says she has 
had years of torment  from British  Gas and it has put her at risk.
As set out in my provisional  decision, I can see this has been a long saga for Ms C, which 
has caused considerable distress and inconvenience, including  in relation to the safety of 
her fire. This was also entirely  avoidable and solely due to failures  on the part of British Gas. 
I remain of the opinion that £500 is appropriate in relation to the misdiagnosis  regarding the 
Ref: DRN274185510flue and £375  is appropriate for the tension  wires and coals.  This is a total of £875 
compensation and is in line with other  awards  made  by this service. 
British Gas also offered  to refund  a years premium for the gas appliance cover in its final 
response letter. It did so in recognition of the poor service received and referred  to the fire 
not being gas council registered.  I assume  this was a typographical error,  as the fire does 
not need to be gas council registered.  I think it refers to not have  a gas safety certificate. 
Ms C has also referred again to British Gass promotional literature stating it will pay 
compensation of £30 for each missed  appointment. I am not aware of any pledge to pay £30 
for missed appointments in relation to its insurance  provision. (There is, however, a 
requirement to pay £30 for each missed appointment as a utilities supplier.) I am not 
therefore persuaded that this is relevant to this complaint. 
Ms C has said she has received cheques for missed appointments in relation to a 
dishwasher repair, which she has not cashed  and that British Gas sent her a cheque  for the 
compensation offered in this case.  There is nothing untoward about British Gas sending a 
cheque before a final resolution of the complaint.  Ms C could  have accepted it as an interim 
payment pending  resolution of her complaint with us. Ms C can also accept the cheques for 
missed appointments  and continue a complaint about that issue,  if she wishes. She would 
just need to make clear  that they are not accepted  in full and final settlement of any 
complaint. (She can ask British Gas to reissue  them, if they have  expired.) 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay
Ms C:
 £200 in reimbursement of her gas engineers costs, together with interest at 8% simple  per 
annum from the date she paid his bill to the date of reimbursement; 
 refund a years premium for the gas appliance cover (approximately £125  plus £15
for the gas safety  certificate); and 
 pay £875 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this 
matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 December  2020. 
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2741855