K821x#15complaint
Mr I has complained about short-term loans granted  to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC trading 
as Quick Quid (Quick Quid or the lender). Mr I says Quick Quid was irresponsible  to lend 
to him, that he was dependent  on its loans and struggled to repay  them. 
background
Quick Quid agreed four loans for Mr I from February 2016 to March 2017. The amounts 
ranged between  £200 and £850 and the loan terms ranged from one to three months.  Some  
of the information the lender provided  is shown in the table below (with figures rounded to 
the nearest pound). This includes what it calls an estimated disposable income  figure, 
which looks to be calculated over the term of the loan.
Mr Is first loan was due to be repaid in one instalment. It seems he rolled  over or extended 
his first loan before refinancing to repay  over two months. It seems  Mr I had problems 
repaying his second,  third and fourth  loans  and incurred late payment fees and default 
charges on all of them.  
Start Repaid PrincipalPayment 
1Payment 
2Payment 
3Estimated 
disposable 
incomeOriginal 
term 
(days)
116/02/2016 26/05/2016 £350 £454 - - £1,035 37
231/05/2016 07/09/2016 £850 £163 £218 £1,061 £2,433 87
326/09/2016 24/03/2017 £200 £48 £248 - £832 60
428/03/2017 30/01/2018 £400 £70 £496 - £818 59
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Is complaint and recommended that Quick Quid  refund 
the interest and charges that he paid on his second,  third and fourth loans.  Quick  Quid  didnt 
agree with this recommendation and so the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that Quick Quid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for his last three  loans  and, had it done so, would  likely  have 
understood that Mr I was unemployed  and that these loans were not sustainably  affordable  
for him. These findings were set out in some detail in a view letter to the lender.
In response to this view,  Quick Quid issued its standard letter  to argue that by the 
1 March 2015, after it became fully authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),  it 
carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments in line with the 
regulators guidance and, because Mr Is loans were issued after this date, they were  not 
irresponsibly lent. It said:
In response  to FOS assessment which recommends  CashEuroNet UK uphold loans which 
were funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that cannot agree to FOS 
Ref: DRN22793022recommendations. Please note that in CashEuroNet UKs  initial  response to FOS we 
provided detailed  information indicating why the loans were  responsibly lent to Mr [I]. 
Furthermore, we would like to advise that we are currently  in talks with senior management 
at FOS to amicably resolve this outstanding issue, therefore we kindly  ask that you move 
this case for ombudsman queue for a final decision. 
Quick Quid didnt comment  on our adjudicators  case-specific findings about the 
proportionality of its checks  or the affordability of the loans, nor did it provide any new 
information for me to consider. 
This Service has already  responded  to Quick Quid on this generic argument  directly and 
through earlier final decisions. So I am not going  to address this point here, though I have  
considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind Quick  Quid  at this point of the FCAs guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  and communicating it to the individuals dealing  with 
complaints in the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr Is complaint and what  both parties have said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr I borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect Quick Quid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
   
I agree  with our adjudicators recommendation and reasoning in Mr Is case. I think 
Quick Quid didnt carry out proportionate  checks when Mr I applied for his second, third and 
Ref: DRN22793023fourth loans.  And, had it done so, it would  likely  have seen that Mr I wouldnt be able to meet  
his repayments  sustainably. And, as a responsible lender, would not have agreed to these. 
Given the size of Mr Is second loan relative  to his stated income of £1,800, Quick Quid 
ought to have obtained a comprehensive picture of Mr Is finances before agreeing to lend to 
him. Our adjudicator explained that Mr I had left his employment around April 2016.  Mr Is 
bank statements dont  show  any income  from here onwards,  apart from what  appear to be 
transfers which Mr I explained were from his fathers business account.  I have  not looked 
further into the source of these loans, but it doesnt appear to me that Mr I had a regular 
source of income  from about this time. And he was continually  overdrawn by several 
thousand pounds.  
Quick Quid said that Mr I hadnt advised  it of any personal or financial hardship. However, I 
note Mr I rolled over a payment on his first loan and was charged default interest and late 
payment fees on all of his others. I think Quick Quid saw sufficient signs  of difficulty  here, 
even before Mr I cancelled repayments  and set up a number of payment plans for his fourth 
loan.
In making my decision I have considered what Quick Quid said in its original submission. 
The lender  mentioned a substantial gap between repayment of loan 3 and the request for 
loan 4. According to its own account  history Mr I requested loan 4 within days of repaying 
loan 3, for which, as I mentioned, hed incurred  late payments and default charges.  And I 
dont consider that there were  substantial gaps between his other loans.
Finally, I have some concerns about exactly how Quick Quid calculated Mr Is estimated 
disposable income figure, but its not necessary  to explore this issue further in this case.  
Irrespective of how it came to these figures, it seems the amount Quick  Quid  says he had 
available to repay his loans  decreased significantly for his third and fourth loans. And this, 
along with the frequency  of his borrowing, doesnt suggest to me he was managing  to repay  
its loans in a sustainable way.
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
As Ive concluded, Quick  Quid was irresponsible to lend to Mr I from May 2016.  In order to 
put Mr I back in the position he would  have been in, Quick  Quid should: 
-refund all interest  and charges for Mr Is loans agreed after this point, namely loans 
2, 3, and 4 as agreed in May 2016, September 2016  and March 2017  respectively;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about these from Mr Is credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN22793024my final decision
I uphold Mr Is complaint and direct CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading  as Quick Quid to put 
things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2279302