K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance  
(PPI) with a credit card.
background
Briefly:
In 2000 Mr B applied  for a credit  card by postal application. At the same time he also took 
out PPI designed to protect his card payments in the event he couldnt work  because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy cost 78 pence for every  £100 owed on the card. And it paid a monthly  benefit  of 
10% of what was owed  for up to 12 months.
The card account  closed in 2005.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said Mr B chose to take out the policy  and 
there was noting  to indicate hed lost out as a result of having  PPI.
Mr B disagrees, so the complaint  comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied this was a sale by post with no interaction with a 
representative of BoS. Because  of this Im also satisfied BoS didnt advise Mr B or 
recommend he take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure it was right or suitable for him. 
But it did need to provide  him with enough clear and timely  information about the policy  so 
Mr M could  make that decision himself. Ive kept this in mind in my consideration of this 
complaint.
did BoS make it clear Mr B had a choice about PPI?
I can see Mr B says he was unaware  he had PPI, so Ive considered  this carefully.
BoS has provided a copy of the credit card application Mr B completed.  And here I can see 
there was a separate section for PPI  section 10  spanning the width of the application.  
After a brief outline of what the cover provided  it required the applicant  to sign next to a 
statement saying Yes,  I want you to arrange credit care insurance  if they wanted  to take 
out PPI. And Mr B signed this section. The application didnt say or in my view imply Mr B 
had to take out PPI to get the credit  card.  
So based  on how the application  was laid out and because Mr B had to sign separately from 
the main credit agreement  to take out PPI, I think it was made clear Mr B had a choice about 
PPI. And while I can understand Mr B now cant remember  doing  so, Im satisfied he chose 
to take it out by signing the application where  required.
Ref: DRN29083322did Mr B get all the information he needed  to make  an informed decision?
if not  to what extent  has he lost out?
Ive said the credit card application set out a brief description of PPI and that the benefit was 
10% of the insured balance, so I think Mr B had a broad sense of what the cover provided. 
Its likely  there was more information with the credit card application  such as an 
accompanying leaflet or summary  booklet.  But the application didnt  refer Mr B to the more 
detailed and important  information about  it, including the significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover.  Mr B most likely  received a policy document after the credit  card account 
was set up. But he didnt base his decision on this information.
So based  on the evidence presented Im not persuaded that Mr B did get everything  he 
needed to make a fully informed decision.  As such I dont think BoS treated Mr B fairly and 
reasonably.
But that doesnt automatically mean Mr B gets compensated. I need to go on to consider if, 
and to what extent  Mr Bs lost out as a result  of things BoS did wrong. And having done so, I 
dont think he has lost out  I think Mr B would most  likely  have still taken out the policy  if 
BoS had done more.  I say this because:
Mr B was eligible  for the cover
he chose to take it out, so this kind of protection must  have been  of interest to him
he was employed  and in good  health, so he wouldnt have been put off by the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover, such as those around existing medical  
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances
Mr B says he had sick pay and some savings  he could have  relied on. But the policy 
would have paid out alongside these and for longer  if necessary, so I think he would 
have found the policy useful at what would likely be a difficult time
the policy appears to have been affordable at the time
So despite  my finding  that BoS didnt likely do everything it should have done  when  it sold 
Mr B PPI, for the reasons  Ive set out above I dont  think Mr Bs decision to take out the 
policy would have been different if BoS had done  more. It follows  that I dont think Mr B has 
suffered any loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr B has not suffered loss as a result  of 
taking out PPI alongside his credit card, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2908332