K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1996. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mrs L says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs L and FICL a provisional decision explaining I planned to uphold  the complaint. 
I said Id consider anything else Mrs L and FICL wanted to give me by 19 March  2019. Ive 
received nothing new from FICL or Mrs L.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ls complaint because I dont think FICL  gave Mrs L clear  enough 
information about the policy.
I dont have a copy of Mrs Ls credit agreement. But given Mrs Ls employment  at the time, 
from what we know its likely Mrs Ls account terms meant her account balance  would  be 
cleared from her salary  if she left her employment. So the policys unemployment cover 
wouldnt have been any use to her.
I think its likely FICL  didnt give Mrs L clear enough  information about the policy  costs.  And I 
think this wouldve mattered to Mrs L because,  bearing in mind  that the unemployment cover 
wasnt any use to her, if FICL had given Mrs L clear  enough  information about the cost of the 
policy I dont think Mrs L wouldve thought the policy was worth  buying.
Bearing what Ive said above in mind,  I dont think Mrs L wouldve bought the policy if FICL 
had given her enough information about  it. So I think Mrs L has lost out because of what 
FICL did wrong.
putting things right
I understand Mrs Ls card account is closed. 
FICL should put Mrs L in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs L would have owed when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Ref: DRN21855722FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs L owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs L would  have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until the refund  is paid.  The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs L 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs L 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs L what its done to work  out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress repaid to Mrs L by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs L can reclaim  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2185572