K821x#15complaint
Miss O is unhappy with Aviva Insurance  Limiteds  handling of her car insurance claim.
background
Miss O made a claim on her car insurance policy following an incident with a motorcycle.
Aviva assessed the damage to Miss Os car and decided to treat it as an unrepairable total 
loss. They  initially valued Miss Os car at £2,112, but she wasnt  happy  with this and it was 
eventually increased  to £2,300.
During the course of the claim Miss O made clear to Aviva  that she wanted to recover some 
sentimental items from her car, a sticker and some  slippers. Theyd been given to her by 
now late friends and relatives  so meant  a great deal to her. Unfortunately,  the items went  
missing and Aviva has been  unable to recover them from the garage Miss Os car was taken  
to, or from the auctioneer  that subsequently sold it.
Aviva offered Miss O £150 compensation for this and for their handling of her claim. They 
also offered her £40 for the fuel that was left in her car. And they said she could claim for the 
lost items under  the personal belongings section of her policy.
Miss O wasnt happy with the offer made  by Aviva, or their overall handling of the matter, so 
brought her complaint  to our service. She felt it was unfair for her to be held liable for the 
incident, and remained unhappy with the valuation of her car, even though it had been 
increased.
Miss O was also unhappy that the policy continued  to run despite her car being a write  off, 
she felt she shouldve been told about the cancellation process so she couldve had some of 
her premium  refunded.  Miss O was also unhappy  with an excess per incident  being applied 
to the hire car she was offered.
An investigator here looked into Miss Os concerns. They explained that its for Aviva  to 
determine the outcome of the claim,  in terms of liability.  And that as Miss O was turning a 
corner at the time it wasnt  unreasonable for them to consider her to be liable. Miss O said 
the third party  admitted  liability at the time so feels that should count for something.
The investigator checked the value  of Miss Os car against industry guides and felt that the 
increased value  of £2,300  was in line with them, so he didnt think a further increase could 
be recommended. He was sympathetic regarding the sentimental items  lost but felt Avivas 
offer of compensation took this into account, and he noted that theyd said Miss O could 
claim for the items monetary value under her policy.
Regarding the hire car, the investigator explained  that Avivas  notes showed they may have 
incorrectly said that two excesses  rather than one  would apply per incident. But his view 
was that the compensation was also enough  to take care of this mistake.
Finally, the investigator  felt Miss O was responsible for cancelling her policy once she knew 
she didnt need  it anymore. Miss O didnt agree  with the investigators  view. She felt Aviva 
had treated her very poorly indeed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the case.
Ref: DRN23584082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im largely in agreement with the investigator who first looked into Miss Os 
case. Although  I dont  believe  the compensation to be adequate so Im upholding the matter 
in part.
Upon review of the car valuation, and having checked the market value in the industry 
guides, I believe Avivas  increased valuation of £2,300 to be fair. Valuing  cars isnt an exact  
science, but this is in line with the guides  which range from slightly below to slightly above 
£2,300 so I cant say its an unfair valuation. And importantly, market value is what the policy  
says is the most itll pay in the event of a claim  in common  with most policies.
Its clear to me that the items lost from Miss Os car meant a great deal to her. And whatever 
their monetary value, she made  clear  to Aviva that she wanted to keep them. I dont know  
what happened to Miss Os items, and all attempts to recover them appear to have been 
unsuccessful.
I believe Aviva, and the garage and auctioneer, should have done more  to ensure that
Miss O was able to obtain them  before  the car was sold. Not being  able to do so has upset 
her a lot and because  of that Im increasing  the amount of compensation by a further £150.
I note that Aviva has said Miss O could  claim for the monetary value of the items  through her 
personal belongings cover.  I dont believe Miss O should be required to claim for them  under 
her insurance policy. They werent  lost as a result of Miss Os claim, they were lost during 
the course of the claim, for which Aviva was responsible.
So, I think Aviva  should  pay the monetary value  to Miss O by way of compensation for 
financial loss.
I dont think it was unreasonable  of Aviva to deem Miss O responsible  for the incident.  Thats  
especially true where something happens  at a road junction, as in this case, because it cant 
be said with certainty who had right of way, or who was carrying  out the manoeuvre 
correctly. So, without  any independent evidence I dont think  its fair to say Aviva shouldve 
done any more  for Miss O, even though I understand how frustrating that can be.
And even  if the motorcyclist did say it was his fault at the time it doesnt  necessarily  mean 
the outcome of the claim will be the same. The insurers involved will still assess  the claim 
and consider the circumstances  described by the two drivers.  And Miss Os policy,  again in 
line with most I have seen, says Aviva has full discretion in the settlement of any claim. For 
the reasons explained, I believe Aviva exercised its discretion fairly.
Miss O was offered a hire car by Aviva, despite  not having this cover included in her policy.  
So even though they seem to have made a mistake when explaining  how the excess  would 
work, I dont  think Miss O has lost out here because she wasnt  entitled to a hire car and this 
was only being  offered  as a goodwill gesture.
I understand why Miss O is unhappy at her policy continuing after her car was deemed  to be 
a total loss. Its possible she couldve cancelled it earlier if Aviva had told her it was still in 
place. But I dont think this wouldve affected  Miss O because  her policy says she wont 
Ref: DRN23584083receive a refund if a claim has been  made. So early cancellation of the policy  wouldnt have 
made any difference in that respect.
In closing, I agree that Avivas overall handling of the claim was unsatisfactory  something it 
already accepts and has offered compensation totalling £190 for. Im sorry Miss O hasnt 
been able to recover the items and I think when  things of sentimental  value are lost, they 
cant ever really be replaced; and Miss O has said shed  have  to travel abroad to be able to 
find replacement slippers.
I dont think Aviva can be held responsible  for the cost of Miss O travelling abroad to find a 
replacement, because  Ive not seen anything  to make me think  this could have been 
reasonably foreseen. And I cant ignore  the fact that Miss O couldve taken such  sentimental  
items out of her car before it went to be assessed  for the claim.  I think its likely they 
wouldve held some monetary value though, so Aviva ought  to make a payment in that 
respect.
Having spoken  to Miss O shes not been able to estimate the cost. So, I put her descriptions  
to Aviva,  and theyve  agreed to offer an additional £50 for them. I appreciate  Miss O doesnt 
believe this to be enough, but without  any evidence to show their worth I cant  say this is 
unreasonable. And as above, Im not going  to award  the cost of flights for her to try and find 
a similar  pair.
In view of the distress caused by the loss of such items I believe its fair to require Aviva  to 
pay a further £150  compensation for trouble and upset caused, in addition to the £190 it had 
already offered.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold Miss Os complaint  in part. I require
Aviva Insurance Limited to put the matter  right by doing the following:
pay Miss O £50 for the sticker  and slippers
pay Miss O £150, being compensation over and above the £190 already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2358408