K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard,  is withdrawing  the 
promotional offer that has applied to his credit  card account and about the way that its 
allocated his payments  to the account. 
background
Mr F had a credit card account with a third party. The account was transferred to 
Barclaycard in November 2011. At that time the outstanding balance of the account was 
£14,381.22. Different interest rates applied to that balance - £2,465.11 was at 0.48%, £3,414 
was at 0% and the remaining amount  was at the standard rate. Barclaycard sent a letter to 
transferring customers which said:
Your interest and promotional rates will not be affected as a result of this change. If 
you have multiple  balance transfer  promotional  rates  on your account when your 
account is moved to Barclaycard, your balances will move on to the lowest 
promotional offer rate and for the longest  duration, helping to reduce the cost of your 
borrowing.
Mr F understood that to mean that his entire balance would be subject to interest at 0% for 
life. That didnt happen so he contacted Barclaycard in January 2012. It said that the 0% 
offer wasnt  for life, it would apply the 0% offer until March 2013 and Mr F could then contact 
it to reinstate  the 0% offer. Barclaycard then said that Mr F had been given wrong  
information and that he wouldnt be able to keep extending the 0% offer.  But the offer was 
extended in February  2013, November 2015  and January 2018  - but it says that the current 
offer wont  be extended beyond  the beginning of September 2019.  
Mr F complained to Barclaycard and in January 2018 it credited his account with £25 to say 
sorry for any inconvenience and frustration that hed been  caused. And it confirmed in April 
2018 that it wouldnt be extending  the promotional offer beyond the current expiry date in 
September 2019  but to say sorry for the inconvenience and frustration that this had caused 
Mr F it credited his account with a further  £200. Mr F wasnt  satisfied with Barclaycards 
responses so complained  to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that 
extending the 0% promotional  interest rate until September 2019  was fair and the £200 
compensation for any trouble and upset that Mr F had experienced was also fair. And he 
didnt think that Barclaycard  should  offer more than that for Mr Fs concerns about the 
allocation of his payments.
Mr F has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that:
the contract with Barclaycard was for the life of the debt;
the £200 was compensation for the time and phone calls that hes spent in dealing  
with this;
Barclaycard has allocated his payments incorrectly and against the regulations;  and
he wants all of the over-payments caused by the incorrect  allocations  to be refunded  
to him with interest and compensation for all of the time and work that hes put into 
this.
my findings
Ref: DRN24394432Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F clearly feels very strongly that a 0% interest  rate should be applied to his account for 
the lifetime of his debt.  But I dont consider that hes provided enough  evidence  to show  that 
the 0% promotional offer from the third party that applied to part of his debt when his account 
was transferred to Barclaycard was for ever. I consider it to be more likely than not that there 
wouldve been a time limit to that offer.
And Im not persuaded that it was ever Barclaycards  intention to offer Mr F a 0% interest 
rate for ever  it would  make no business  sense for it to do so. Barclaycard accepts that 
Mr F was given  incorrect information about extending  the promotional  offer in January 2012. 
But I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to continue to offer 
extensions of the 0% offer.
Barclaycard has extended  the 0% offer in January 2012, February  2013,  November 2015 
and January 2018  and the current offer expires at the beginning of September  2019. But 
its said that it wont be extending the offer beyond that time.  Its also paid Mr F a total of 
£225 compensation  which it says was for the inconvenience and frustration that hes been 
caused. So Mr F will have benefitted  from the 0% offer from November 2011 until September 
2019 and hes received  £225 compensation for his inconvenience and frustration. I consider 
that Barclaycard  has acted fairly  and reasonably in connection with Mr Fs account  and 
that it has extended the 0% offer for much  longer than I consider that it was required to do. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Barclaycard has allocated  
Mr Fs payments incorrectly. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Barclaycard to pay any further compensation to Mr F - or to 
take any other action  in response to his compliant.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2439443