K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained about how Hastings  Insurance Services  Limited  handled his windscreen 
claim under his motor  insurance policy.
background 
Mr T found some cracks in his windscreen and made a claim under his policy. Hastings sent 
their contractor to replace  his windscreen.  But Mr T wasnt confident  that they could do it 
properly. So instead he had his windscreen  replaced by a manufacturer  approved garage.  
His policy permitted that, and said that Hastings  would contribute £95 to that cost. But he 
wanted Hastings  to pay for the total amount,  which  was over £700, plus his expenses. He 
was also unhappy  that Hastings charged  him a cancellation fee when he cancelled his 
policy.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  They  thought that 
Hastings had done what they needed to do under the policy.  Mr T didnt agree and so Ive 
been asked to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are not experts in car repair or materials and so we will look at any expert evidence that 
the parties produce. We also cant say what materials  or contractors  an insurer must  use, 
nor can we analyse them or investigate their safety  - thats not our role. All we can decide is 
whether the insurers  policy terms are clear and theyve applied  them  fairly and reasonably in 
dealing with Mr Ts claim. 
Mr T said as follows. Hastingss contractors were not trained to fit a manufacturer-made 
windscreen in his brand of car, using manufacturer-made  or manufacturer-approved 
adhesives and parts. So Hastingss contractors  could not be using parts and materials  of an 
equivalent type and quality to those being replaced as Hastingss policy said. That meant  
that Hastings  couldnt  do what they promised under his policy and were  in breach of 
contract. So Mr T had no alternative but to have his windscreen fitted by a manufacturer-
approved fitter using  manufacturer-approved  materials. And so he felt that Hastings should 
pay the full cost of that, rather than just a contribution towards it. 
In response, Hastings  said as follows. Though their contractors didnt use manufacturer-
made or manufacturer-  approved materials and, in particular, adhesives,  they did use motor 
industry approved  materials which met all required standards, and Mr Ts policy allowed this. 
Ive looked at Mr Ts policy and it says:
Your Insurers Nominated Repairer may use parts or Accessories that arent made  or 
supplied by your Cars manufacturer but are of an equivalent type and quality to those being 
replaced. 
It also says Additional charges or limited cover  may apply if you dont use your Insurers 
Nominated Repairer . It goes on to say what contribution Hastings will make towards the use 
of a manufacturer garage.
Ref: DRN24814862I think that Hastingss  policy  terms are clear and theyre not unreasonable. Indeed I think its 
clear that Hastings may use windscreen and materials that arent manufacturer  made or 
supplied, and if the consumer wants parts and accessories that are, Hastings wont  pay for 
that but will contribute to it to a maximum amount. Theyd agreed to do that in Mr Ts case.
So I dont  think that Hastings need to have contractors who are trained to fit a manufacturer 
product using manufacturer materials, because thats not what theyve agreed to do under 
the policy. 
Mr Ts focuses on the phrase equivalent  type and quality to those being replaced.  Mr T has 
provided documentary  material, both technical  and promotional,  from his cars manufacturer.  
This recommends their own materials as being  superior and in particular warns  of a problem 
case when manufacturer  materials  were  not used. Mr T believes that unless  the 
manufacturer has approved the quality  and safety test standard of the fitting,  product  and 
material then they cant be of equivalent type and quality.  But I dont think  that necessarily 
follows. Its common for a manufacturer to recommend  their own parts and material,  but that 
doesnt mean that alternatives cannot be equivalent.  
Hastings provided  an opinion from their contractors technical manager that the windscreen  
materials and adhesives  which the contractor uses are made specifically  for the purpose  by 
a global  company which does rigorous testing  and meets applicable regulations and industry 
standards. This is a clear  and reasoned  explanation and is supported  by the adhesive 
manufacturers technical information. According to the technical manager,  the 
manufacturers problem  case  did not involve the materials that the contractor  uses. 
Mr T says has been unable to find an independent study that shows  Hastings windscreen 
replacement materials are equivalent. But similarly  he has not produced any independent 
evidence to show that they are not equivalent.  As there  is no independent report,  I dont 
think there is sufficient evidence to show me that Hastings were  wrong  to rely on their 
contractors opinion that their materials are equivalent.
I appreciate that Mr T is likely to be disappointed  by this decision, but I dont think  that 
Hastings have acted  unreasonably here. What Hastings offered to do for Mr T complied with 
their policy.  So I dont  think that they are in breach of contract, and I think that it was Mr Ts 
choice not to use Hastings contractors, but to use a manufacturer garage. 
It was also his choice  to cancel his policy, and so I think that hes liable for the cancellation 
charge, which  isnt unreasonable. And so, in all the circumstances, I dont ask Hastings to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2481486