K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
background 
Mr A took out a total of five loans with Lending Stream between August 2016 and October 
2017.
Loan Date borrowed Amount Date repaid
1 22.08.16 £100 30.09.16
2 06.04.17 £400 29.09.17
3 01.07.17 £300
4 12.09.17 £260
5 07.10.17 £140
Each of the loans  was repayable by six monthly instalments. Mr A repaid the first loan early, 
and the second loan on time. He made his repayments on loan 3 on time up to and including  
the payment that was due in October 2017. But then he fell behind  with his repayments, and 
balances remain outstanding on loans 3, 4 and 5.
Mr A believes that Lending  Stream was irresponsible to lend to him. He considers that 
proper checks would  have  shown it that he was borrowing from a number of short-term  
lenders, and it should have been  clear  that he wouldnt be able to afford  to repay the loans 
without borrowing again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
Ref: DRN22058792the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Lending Stream has told us about the checks that it carried out before it lent to Mr A. It 
asked him for details  of his monthly  income  and regular monthly expenditure. And it checked  
his credit file each time. 
Mr A believes that Lending  Stream should have seen his other loans when it carried  out its 
credit checks. But Ive seen a summary  of those  checks, and I dont think they showed  
anything that should have  caused  concern to Lending Stream.  
I acknowledge that Mr A has explained that he didnt tell Lending Stream about all his other 
loans. But Lending  Stream was entitled  to rely on the information Mr A provided  in his 
application, in the absence of anything to suggest  it was likely to be unreliable.
As I mentioned earlier each of Mr As loans was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that he needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal  payday  
loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a significantly 
longer period. And at times Mr A had a number of loans  outstanding together. So Ive 
needed to consider the total amount  that Mr A needed to repay to Lending  Stream  each 
month.
Im satisfied that the checks  Lending  Stream carried out before making the first three  loans 
were proportionate. The repayments  on the loans were a relatively small proportion of Mr As 
declared monthly income. On the basis  of the information Mr A provided  when he took out 
the first two loans, there was nothing which ought to have alerted Lending Stream  to the 
possibility that he couldnt afford the loans,  or that he was borrowing unsustainably. 
Ref: DRN22058793By the time he applied for loan 3, Mr As declared  monthly expenditure had increased. So 
the disposable income that he had was smaller than it had previously been. But on balance, 
I think the checks Lending Stream did here were  enough. Those suggested that Mr A would 
still have enough  disposable income to make his repayments. Given Mr As borrowing 
history with Lending Stream and what was apparent about his circumstances at the time, 
I dont think it would  have  been proportionate  for Lending Stream  to ask him for the amount 
of information  that would have been  needed to show the borrowing was unsustainable  at this 
stage. And so I dont  find that Lending Stream was irresponsible  to make the first three 
loans.
But Mr A applied for loan 4 while  loans 2 and 3 were  still running. He wasnt  making  any 
significant inroads  into the amount he owed Lending Stream. So I think that at this stage, 
Lending Stream ought to have been concerned that Mr A might  have  difficulty  managing his 
money, and might have  become reliant  on short-term credit. And I think that it ought to have  
realised that it couldnt safely  rely on the information Mr A was providing  about  his finances. 
So I think that when  Mr A applied for loan 4, Lending Stream should have taken steps  to 
verify the true state of his finances independently. And if it had done  so, it would have seen 
that in addition to loans  2 and 3, Mr A already  had several short-term loans outstanding with 
a range of other lenders. And I think that it would have been  clear to Lending Stream that it 
was unlikely that Mr A would be able to repay further borrowing in a sustainable manner.  So 
I think it should have  declined Mr As applications  for loans 4 and 5.
putting things right
I dont think Lending  Stream  should have agreed to make loans 4 and 5 to Mr A. So Lending 
Stream should:
Refund all interest and charges  that Mr A paid on loans 4 and 5;
Write off any interest and charges that Mr A hasnt yet paid those loans;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year to each of those amounts from the dates 
they were  paid until the date of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about loans 4 and 5 form Mr As credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it he asks for one.
If Mr A still owes Lending Stream any of the principal amounts he borrowed on loans 3 to 5, 
Lending Stream may deduct these  from the compensation  that is due to him. But, to be 
clear, the outstanding balances on loans 4 and 5 should be recalculated to remove  any 
interest and charges, and taking account  of any repayments Mr A has made on those loans 
as if they were applied  against the principal  amounts  borrowed.
Ref: DRN22058794my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Gain Credit  LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream)  to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2205879