K821x#15complaint
Miss S complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
background
A claim  was made to Markerstudy  against  Miss Ss policy saying she was involved in an 
accident on 13 September  2017. It was alleged that Miss S crashed  into the back of another 
car causing it damage and injury to the driver. The policy  lapsed  in October 2017 after it 
wasnt renewed.
Miss S said she wasnt involved in any accident and that she, and her car, was at her place  
of work at the time of the alleged accident.  Miss Ss employer  also gave a written  statement 
confirming that Miss S and her car were at her place of work  during  the whole day on which 
the alleged accident was said to have occurred. 
Markerstudy concluded that Miss S was involved in the accident and that she had committed 
fraud by denying involvement.  They  said they would report the incident and place a marker 
on the fraud database. Miss S complained,  but Markerstudy didnt uphold her complaint.
As Miss S wasnt  happy with Markerstudys decision, she brought  her complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint. She felt that Markerstudy hadnt 
acted fairly  and suggested  that they pay Miss S £150 compensation and that they remove 
any fraud marker from her record.
As Markerstudy didnt  agree with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I must decide if Markerstudy have dealt with Miss S in a fair and reasonable way.
The allegation against Miss S was very serious and any action that Markerstudy might take 
is likely  to have serious consequences  for her. I would therefore expect Markerstudy to 
investigate the allegations fairly and reasonably, but I dont think  they have.
The key issues can be summarised as follows:
The other driver gave  Markerstudy a photo  of the front of Miss Ss car; a description 
of her; and her name.  I note the surname was correct but the first name was a variant  
of Miss Ss. Miss S explained that the photo could have been taken somewhere other 
than the location of the alleged accident  or that the car could  have been  the same  but 
the registration number cloned. I think both of those suggestions are possible. While 
the description given  of Miss S wasnt exact,  I think it was broadly accurate. But 
Miss S works in the area so its possible that, if as Miss S suspects, the other driver 
made a fraudulent claim they knew what she looked like. I note it would have also 
been possible to get Miss Ss name and other details  from public  records.
Ref: DRN23810062The other driver provided  a photo  of Miss Ss car. When  Miss S challenged the photo 
the other drivers representatives  sent a screen shot suggesting that was proof that 
the photo was taken  at the time and date of the accident. Markerstudy  placed  very 
heavy emphasis on this evidence in saying Miss S had lied and that it proved she 
wasnt at work,  but involved in the accident. Miss S, in my view correctly, said that it 
was possible for the date and time of a photo  taken on a mobile phone to be 
amended. Markerstudy, without any convincing evidential  basis,  dismissed that 
suggestion. Markerstudy didnt examine the phone, but they relied on what  they were 
told by the other driver.
Miss Ss employer gave a statement saying she was at work  engaged in meetings all 
day on the relevant  date.  He also said her car was at all times parked in the company 
car park and was visible  at all times. Her employer also said he was willing to give 
evidence in court. Markerstudy dismissed his evidence  by saying when I spoke  the 
insured's employer  I felt that he was a very weak witness . No other explanation or 
basis was given  for this view.
Miss Ss car was examined by an independent  engineer around two months  after the 
alleged accident  and the engineer  said there were  no signs  of recent  impact  or any 
indications that recent  repairs have been  carried out to the front. The engineer  was 
later asked  to give further opinion on whether any damage to Miss Ss car was 
consistent with the damage found to the other drivers car. The engineer  reported 
there wasnt.
The independent engineer reported that there was some damage to the rear bumper 
of the other car. But that inspection happened around nine months after the alleged 
accident. Its not clear  to me why the inspection didnt happen soon after the alleged  
incident. And Markerstudy hasnt addressed the possibility that any damage could 
have been pre-existing or caused  between the alleged accident in September  2017  
and before the inspection by the independent engineer in June 2018.
The independent engineer noted the damage to the other cars rear bumper was  at 
a height of 39  54cms from ground  level. Miss Ss car is substantially smaller  and 
lower than the other drivers car. But Markerstudy havent  investigated  or addressed 
the issue of the substantial  disparity  in height and size of the two cars to explain how 
one could have  caused the damage present on the other.
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think Markerstudys decision that Miss S was involved 
in the accident and committed fraud to avoid  the claim  was reasonable. Markerstudy  should  
correct all records, including the fraud  database,  to remove any fraud marker against 
Miss Ss name. Miss S has suffered  distress  and inconvenience as a result of this incident 
so I require Markerstudy to pay her £150  compensation  to address this.
Finally, Miss S has asked  for the return of her full premium.  That is not something I am 
asking Markerstudy to do because they have provided her cover for the whole policy year.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Correct all records, including the fraud  database,  to remove  any fraud marker against 
Miss Ss name.
Pay Miss S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Miss S has accepted  my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must  also pay interest  on that amount  
Ref: DRN23810063from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple. 1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.   
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
1 If Markerstudy pay interest and consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest,  they should  tell Miss S how much they have taken off. They  should  
also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2381006