K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) advised him that he had to change his 
second mortgage to a buy to let one which meant that he was paying  a higher interest rate. 
background
Mr L applied for a residential mortgage  in 2002. In 2005, he wanted to borrow some  more 
money for home improvements.
BOS said that Mr L told them that his brother  in law was living  in the property and that it 
wasnt being used  as Mr Ls main residence   which is what they thought  when he originally 
applied for the mortgage. They said that they were unable to offer any additional borrowing 
as the terms and conditions were  breached,  so as a result, the property was re-mortgaged  
with them  under a different scheme where consent to let the property  out had been granted.
Mr L is unhappy with the advice he was given by BOS and says that he thought  he had no 
other option but to change his mortgage when he wanted to borrow  some more money. He 
says BOS failed to lower  his interest  rate when the Bank of England  base rate reduced and 
used the fact that his property was rented out as a reason to increase it. He says that the 
terms and conditions he had at the time didnt allow BOS to do this. He also thinks  the terms 
and conditions are different  to those that BOS hold for his mortgage.  
Mr L says that the terms and conditions he has confirm  that the SVR can be changed for any 
valid reason and he feels he would have to agree  for the reason to be a valid one. He has 
also sent in various  articles about BOS and in particular, that BOS  were fined by the 
regulator in 2012 for poor record  keeping  about changes to a cap being applied to the 
standard variable  rate (SVR). 
As he was unhappy,  he brought the complaint to our service  and it was looked at by one of 
our investigators. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld,  and so 
Mr L has asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He said that he still feels it was 
unfair of BOS to increase  his rate and believes it should have been tracking the Bank  of 
England base rate. He argues that he has been  given incorrect  terms and conditions. 
As Mr L disagreed the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, I do 
agree with the investigators conclusions, so I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Id firstly  like to reassure Mr L that I have  taken into account legislation, regulation and good 
industry practice in reaching my decision. And I appreciate  he has mentioned various press 
articles about BOS in his complaint. But we look at all cases  individually and on their own 
merit, based on what we know within the industry. So I wont  be commenting any further on 
these.
Ref: DRN29421992I can see that Mr L applied for a residential mortgage in 2002 which  was taken out on a 
capital repayment  basis. The mortgage  offer at the time shows that the interest was going  to 
be 1% above the base  product and it was an Adaptable  Mortgage Plan (AMP)  Plus tracker. 
The mortgage application indicates that the property  would not be let out.
In 2005, Mr L wanted  to borrow some  further money. He thought he had the option to draw  
some funds down from his existing mortgage.  But BOS  said he couldnt do this because he 
wasnt living  at that property  his brother  in law was. They  said he would need to change his 
mortgage to show  that consent was given to let it out. Mr L therefore re-mortgaged the 
property and took out a loan on an interest only basis  on a three year fixed rate at 5.49%. 
The mortgage offer shows  that this rate would revert back to BOSs SVR which was 6.65% 
after the fixed rate had ended.
Mr L is unhappy with the advice he was given when he took this mortgage out. I can see 
from the mortgage offer that this mortgage was taken out no a non-advice  basis which  
means that BOS didnt  give Mr L advice on it. They wouldnt have needed to make  sure that 
this mortgage  was suitable  for Mr L. But I can see that they let him know  he wouldnt be able 
to borrow the additional  funds that he wanted on his original  residential mortgage  because  
he was no longer living in the property.
In considering this part of the complaint, the starting  point is the mortgage terms and 
conditions, which set out the agreement  between BOS and Mr L. The relevant conditions  
say:
4. confirmations
By countersigning  the formal offer you confirm that:
(e)Unless the mortgage product conditions provide otherwise, that the owner  intends  on 
completion to or now lives in the property; and
These conditions are from 2001  applied to Mr Ls residential mortgage which he took out in 
2002. These conditions make it clear that Mr L should live in the property. But Mr L told BOS  
that his brother in law was now living at that property and Mr L had moved  into a different 
property. Because  of this, Im satisfied that Mr L couldnt borrow or draw  down the additional 
money that he wanted on a residential  mortgage  basis. So I cant say that BOS  have  done  
anything wrong  as they are acting within their terms of the contract between them and Mr L, 
which he agreed to when he took out the original mortgage.
Mr L strongly believes that he has been given  incorrect terms and conditions and thinks  the 
Adaptable Mortgage Plan Plus contract relates  to the 2005 mortgage and not the one taken  
out in 2002. Because  of this, he thinks the SVR rate should be tracking the Bank of England 
base rate. He says because they were  a Scottish  Bank, they used the term SVR instead. So 
he expected the rate to fall in line with the Bank  of England base rate. 
When Mr L took out his mortgage in 2002,  he was on an AMP Plus Tracker which  tracked 
1% above  the Bank of Scotland Variable Rate.  This is different to the mortgage he took out 
in 2005 where  this rate reverted to a Standard Variable  Rate  once the fixed rate had expired. 
I havent seen  anything which suggests  that Mr L was given either incorrect terms or 
conditions or not given  them at all. And I think its clear from the 2005 mortgage offer, that 
Mr Ls rate would be variable  with no mention of it tracking the Bank of England base rate.
Ref: DRN29421993Ive looked carefully  at the paperwork that Mr L was given and the mortgage offer from 2005. 
In my view, it makes  it clear that Mr Ls mortgage is contract based  after expiry of a fixed 
rate  on an interest rate that can vary from time to time. The rate is described  as variable. 
By its nature, a variable rate can go up and down. BOS, in line with their terms and 
conditions, can vary this rate. 
Mr L said that his rate remained the same for a number of years. I can see that the SVR 
increased in 2011 from 4.84% to 4.95% and it remained at this rate until Mr L took out a 
further fixed rate in 2017. He says that this rate stayed the same  for a number of years and 
didnt reduce with the Bank  of England  Base  Rate. 
I can see that BOS increased  the interest rate in November  2011 from 4.84% to 4.95%, and 
that the Bank of England  base rate didnt change at this time. BOS have told us that that 
they increased the rate mainly because of increased  funding and capital costs of running 
their mortgages. Ive had a look to see if applying this increase was reasonable.
Looking at the terms and conditions, section  6, under changing the interest  rate explains:
Subject to what we have  indicated in the formal offer and the mortgage  product conditions, 
we may change the rate if it is variable for the following reasons:
(a)If there  is an actual or expected change in the cost to us of raising money  we lend in 
our mortgage business
Based on this, I think that BOS were entitled to increase the rate as the change was in line 
with their terms and conditions. They werent  required  to get Mr Ls agreement  to make  this 
change.
I appreciate Mr L expected his mortgage interest  rate to go down in line with the Bank of 
England base rate. But the SVR isnt a tracker rate so it doesnt need to change the same 
time as the Bank of England base rate or by the same amount. I havent seen anything  in the 
terms and conditions which suggest that BOS  are contractually obliged to change  their SVR 
when the Bank of England base  rate changes.  Lenders can take into account  what  happens 
when the Bank of England base  rate changes,  but they dont have to apply changes as a 
result of this.
In addition to this, as Mr L was on the SVR rate, he wouldnt have been charged an early 
repayment fee had he wanted  to move his mortgage elsewhere. And Im satisfied there  were  
no contractual barriers  preventing Mr L from redeeming his mortgage early if he wanted to 
look for another interest  rate elsewhere.
With regard to the rate not changing again  over a period of time,  Ive already explained that 
BOS didnt need to do this because  the rate wasnt tracking the Bank of England base rate. 
However, I can see that the SVR has broadly followed the Bank of England base  rate during 
the time it was applied  to Mr Ls account.
Ref: DRN29421994Overall, Im satisfied that BOS have acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions  
when they told Mr L that he needed to change his mortgage. And I also I cant  say that they 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way theyve varied and applied the Standard 
Variable Rate to Mr Ls mortgage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this compliant.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2942199