K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax doesnt have  much of the paperwork from the time of sale,  which  isnt surprising 
considering this was almost 14 years ago. So I need to decide what  I think is most likely to 
have happened. 
Halifax has provided me with a sample credit  card application Mrs H is likely to have  seen at 
the time.  I can see PPI would have been  actively selected and Mrs H would have  had to sign 
the application in order to agree to the cover. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have  been  asked for 
their consent  to the cover.
So with the limited information  I have available to me I think  its more likely that Mrs H knew 
the policy was optional and she agreed  to buy it, knowing she could refuse if she didnt want 
it, even if she doesnt remember that now. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs H has said she would  have received some sick pay from her employer if she was too ill 
to work. But this policy would cover  10% of the outstanding balance  of her account  for up to 
12 months if she was too sick to work  or she lost her job. And this would be in addition  to, 
and potentially for longer than, any other pay she would  receive.  So I still think  the PPI would 
have been useful to Mrs H. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN28978252This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs H paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs H back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs H now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2897825