K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly  allowed  a car hire company to take two 
debit card payments  from his account.
background
A car hire company  debited Mr Gs current account  with two payments, each for just over 
£315. Mr G says that these payments were for the hire of a car, which he initially  arranged 
on behalf of his father  and so presented his card to the hire car company. But he says his 
father later extended the hire and gave  his own cards details for payment instead.
Mr G does not consider  that HSBC is entitled  to hold him liable for the payments, as the 
contract for the hire was between his father  and the hire company, and he had not signed 
any agreement or authorised payment  for the two hire periods billed.
HSBC attempted  to charge back  the disputed transactions  from the hire car companys bank 
but was unsuccessful.  As matters remained unresolved, Mr G brought  the complaint to this 
service where it was considered by an investigator. From the evidence, the investigator 
considered that Mr G had given his card to the car hire company when his father entered  
into the rental agreement  and given his authority for them  to use it  even  if his father later 
tried to use his own card.
The investigator was satisfied that HSBC  had made a reasonable attempt to charge the 
transaction back. Overall, the investigator  considered that it was entitled to hold Mr G liable 
for the transaction.  He also thought  HSBC refunding  the charges on Mr Gs bank account 
after the transactions were reapplied and took it overdrawn was a fair thing to do.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  conclusions and asked for the complaint  to be reviewed.  
It has therefore been assigned to me so a decision  can be issued. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
It is not in dispute  that Mr G presented  his debit card to the car hire company  when  his father 
entered into a rental agreement. I dont have any clear explanation as to why his father didnt 
present his own card from the outset, given Mr G says his father had tried to pay for hire at 
the end of the rental period. But its clear Mr G presented his debit card so that his father  
could hire a car.
Mr G argues he didnt authorise  the two debit card transactions. HSBC got the car hire 
companys standard terms and conditions setting  out how and when it could take payment. 
These allow it, when payment couldnt  be taken using his fathers card,  to take payment  
using Mr Gs card because  it was the one given when his father entered into the contract  
with them.
The issue  Im required to determine is whether HSBC should do more to assist Mr G in 
recovering the money. A bank doesnt generally become responsible for the actions of an 
independent third party simply because the customer paid using their debit card. Where a 
Ref: DRN28572062chargeback right exists  and theres a reasonable  prospect of success,  as a matter  of good 
practice Id expect a bank  to attempt to assist  its customer  by raising a dispute  as HSBC  
has done here. But that doesnt mean the outcome of such an action will be in the 
customers favour. In some cases  as here  the merchant may defend the chargeback in 
accordance with the relevant card scheme rules.
That doesnt  mean Mr G cant successfully pursue his argument against  the car hire 
company directly. Or indeed, the persons contracted under the car hire agreement   his 
father and Miss G. But I dont believe its for me or HSBC to do so here. Im satisfied the 
banks chargeback attempt to assist  Mr G was sufficient.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint and I dont ask HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc to do anything  further. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2857206