K820x#14complaint
Mr U has complained that esure Insurance Limited  didnt give him the option to buy back  the 
salvage of his written  off car when he made a claim under  his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr U made  a claim under his car insurance  policy following an incident. esures approved  
repairer decided  that it wasnt  economical  to repair Mr Us car. So it dealt with Mr Us claim 
by paying him a total loss settlement. 
Mr U didnt accept the settlement  and he complained that esure had sold the salvage of his 
car. 
esure said that it told Mr U on 4 October  2018 that his car would go to a salvage  agent and 
he didnt express an interest  in buying back the salvage then. On 12 October 2018 esure 
said it missed  a further opportunity to tell Mr U then that his car was being  disposed of for 
salvage. For its failing,  it paid Mr U £350 compensation. 
Mr U asked us to look at his complaint. He believes esure should pay him £1,000  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  its caused  him. He said he didnt accept 
the total loss settlement payment, so the car was still his. He said esure had no right to 
dispose of it. 
esure told us it received  £364 for the salvage of Mr Us car. So the adjudicator  
recommended esure pay Mr U an additional £14 as she didnt  think  it was fair for esure  to 
profit from its error. esure agreed  and paid the balance  to Mr Us bank  account  in February 
2019. 
Mr U didnt agree. He said the additional payment is an insult. He said esure acted 
fraudulently by selling his car for salvage without permission. So he wants  an ombudsman to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr U is upset that his car was sold for salvage by esure. It accepts it should 
have told Mr U this when  it spoke  to him on 12 October 2018.  
When things go wrong,  we look at what an insurer did to put things right.  esure settled 
Mr Us claim by paying him a total loss settlement. This is the most esure will pay in the 
event of a claim. To compensate Mr U for its error, its paid him an additional £364. This is 
the same  amount that it received from the salvage agent for the salvage of Mr Us car. 
So overall I think esure has done  enough to put things right as Mr U has received the total 
loss settlement and the equivalent of the salvage fee esure gained when it disposed of his 
car.
I understand Mr U may be disappointed  with my decision. But I think  esure dealt with his 
complaint reasonably. So Im not asking  it to do anymore. 
Ref: DRN25562452my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2556245