K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt advise him when he opened an ISA 
account that his other account  wasnt a current account.
background
Mr A went  to a Nationwide branch in April 2018  to open an ISA account. He also held 
another account that had been open since about  1999 that he believed  was current account  
but was actually a savings  account.  Mr A says the Nationwide member of staff that dealt with 
him wasnt paying attention to him and told him he could make payments  out of the account  
(savings). He says he should have been told he didnt have a current  account which would 
have allowed him to transfer money into it from the ISA to allow  him to use his money as he 
intended.
Mr A says on 1 March 2019  he tried to make  a payment from the account  he thought was his 
current account to buy a car but was unable  to do so. He says he then spoke to Nationwide 
and it told him he couldnt  make an external  payment  out of either account as the account he 
believed was a current account was in fact a savings account.
Nationwide issued a final response and said that its staff member wouldnt be expected  to 
tell Mr A about an account he didnt have. It accepted Mr A spent some time on the 
telephone to it when he called and offered  £50 for his inconvenience.  Nationwide also says 
that Mr As savings account  had been open since 1999 and he should  have  been  aware  of 
what he could or could not do with it. It says Mr A had used online banking and would have 
been able to see that external payments out of either account was not possible, only 
transfers between  them.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator didnt think  
Nationwides staff member should  have told Mr A what his account  could and couldnt do 
unless asked. But he did think Mr A asked if he could do online  transfers  and should have 
been told he couldnt. The investigator  thought Mr A was able to buy the car and 
recommended Nationwide increase its compensation to £150.
Mr A doesnt  accept that view and says he should receive about £500 as this was a serious  
issue that caused him stress and pressure  trying to get the money over the weekend (2-3 
March 2019) and left him in a degrading position.
Nationwide doesnt  accept that view either. It says Mr A was under the mistaken belief he 
held a current account and could have  checked the position before trying to pay for the car.
I looked at the complaint and asked  both sides for further information. I asked Nationwide  for 
notes of the meeting in April 2018. I asked  Mr A why he couldnt  have attended  a branch to 
withdraw the money or make a CHAPS payment as Nationwide  suggested he do in the call 
between them. I also asked him if he noticed  that there wasnt an option to make  payments 
out of either account when he used online banking. And if he had been asked by Nationwide 
if he held a current account in 2018, would he have said he did in any event.
Mr A told me he used online banking but left the branch in 2018 sure he could make 
payments out of the account. He accepts that he referred to the savings account  as a current 
account and that although  he lives less than five miles from the Nationwide branch it wasnt  
convenient for him to attend. He also says the branch didnt have that amount of money  and 
Ref: DRN20578382he was busy that weekend making  his arrangements to buy the car on the following Monday. 
Mr A says he lost credibility with the car seller and believes  he should now ask Nationwide 
for £1,000  compensation.
Nationwide has told me it doesnt have notes  of the meeting in April 2018.
my provisional findings
I came  to the provisional view that Nationwide had made a fair and reasonable offer of £50 
compensation. 
I said it was difficult to be certain what happened in the Nationwide  branch in April 2018 
when Mr A opened his ISA. I thought  on balance  Mr A would  have asked if he could make a 
transfer out of his ISA account to make an external payment. And I thought  it likely  he was 
told he could if he held a current account  and the money from the ISA was transferred into it. 
So I accepted Mr A left the branch confident  that when the time came  he could transfer 
money from the ISA account into the other account and then make an external payment. As I 
was satisfied Mr A incorrectly believed his savings account was a current account.
So I thought  the crucial  question was whether the Nationwide  staff member should have 
checked the position. And I came to the provisional  view that it wouldnt  have  been  
reasonable for the staff member to do so or to have realised Mr A had made a mistake in his 
understanding of what  type of account  he held. 
I listened to the call between the parties  on 1 March 2019. And I was satisfied Mr A referred  
to his account as a current account  on more than one occasion and questioned why he 
couldnt make an external  transfer. So I was satisfied that he still mistakenly thought  the 
account was a current account almost  a year after he attending the branch.
I also thought  that Nationwide  gave  Mr A two possible options  to access his money, to 
attend a branch and withdraw  the money or make a CHAPS payment. I appreciated Mr A 
says the branch didnt have enough money  for the request.  But I also thought he could have  
taken up the other option (CHAPS payment) or ordered the money  for the following day or 
used another  branch. I accepted Mr A says he was busy that day and on the weekend with 
work and planning his trip. But I also thought Nationwide  tried to assist  him and provided 
reasonable solutions for the problem.
I could see that Mr A was able to pay for the car on the agreed  date in any event so I didnt 
think he lost out financially. I also thought  that he ought to have been aware of the type of 
account he had opened with Nationwide in 1999. And that he ought to have seen that when 
using online banking  there was no way of making  an external payment, regardless of what  
took place in the branch  in 2018.  I could see from the account statements that the account  
was not referred  to as a current account  and I said the account title suggested it was a 
savings account.
Overall I thought Nationwide had made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation for the 
time Mr A spent  on the telephone  on 1 March 2019. I didnt think  further compensation was 
justified for the reasons I explained. 
Nationwide doesnt  wish to comment on my provisional decision but Mr A has done  so. He 
says in summary that hes disappointed with my view and says he didnt reject  the 
investigators offer of £150. He also says digital banking wasnt available in 1999  when  the 
Ref: DRN20578383account was opened and so shouldnt be mentioned. Mr A says if Nationwide didnt make a 
note of their meeting in 2018  then that was its negligence  and asks why he should  have 
made a CHAPS payment and been  out of pocket. He says he was told the money may not 
have been available in branch when he called. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as I reached in my provisional decision. I realise Mr A will be disappointed by 
my decision.  And I make clear to Mr A that both he and Nationwide didnt accept the 
investigators view that the compensation offer be increased to £150  and even if Mr A had 
accepted it then, I would have still looked  at the complaint to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable.
I appreciate Mr A says I should not consider  the issue of digital banking.  But I think that 
when Mr A used online  banking he ought to have been aware that firstly the accounts  didnt  
allow external  transfers and secondly  the account  was labelled as a type of savings account 
not a current account.
I also appreciate that Mr A says that Nationwide should have made a note of the meeting in 
2018. But Im sorry to disagree with him but I dont think it would have been reasonable for 
Nationwide to make  a note about  a discussion about  if external payments could be made out 
of an account.  I think the crucial point here is that Mr A was under the impression he held a 
current account and for the reasons Ive explained I think it likely Nationwide staff would 
have told him he could make an external payment if he held a current  account  and Mr A 
would have said he did.
Ive explained  in my provisional decision that Im satisfied Nationwide  offered Mr A two 
reasonable alternative solutions, to make  the payment by a cash withdrawal or a CHAPS 
payment.
I accept that in the circumstances  that Mr A may not wish to accept  Nationwides offer of £50 
compensation and so I will leave it to him to decide if he wishes  to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer and I dont require  it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2057838