K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy which  Mr and Mrs F took out with a 
loan from Halifax in 2003. Mr and Mrs F applied for the loan and PPI during  a meeting at a 
branch of the bank.
The loan was in joint names, but the PPI policy  only covered  Mr F. So Ive looked mainly at 
his circumstances  when  considering the complaint. The policy would have  paid 
Mr and Mrs Fs monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months per successful claim for 
unemployment, and for up to five years per successful  claim for disability, accident or 
sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Fs application for the loan. It included a section on 
PPI, with equally prominent options  to take or decline  the cover. Mr F selected  the 
option to take the cover by signing specifically to say that he wished to take it. I think 
Halifax made Mr and Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to 
take it.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. This means  it had a responsibility to 
check that the cover was suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
 I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs F have told us that Mr F would  have been  entitled to six 
months full pay, followed by six months  half pay from his employer if hed been off 
sick. But if hed made a successful claim for disability,  accident  or sickness  on the PPI 
policy, it would potentially  have paid out for significantly longer than hed have received 
sick pay for. And it would have paid out for up to 12 months  if hed been made 
redundant. Whats  more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr F 
received from his employer, allowing Mr and Mrs F to use those to meet other day-to-
day expenses. So I think the policy could have  been useful  for Mr and Mrs F. 
 I cant be certain whether Mr and Mrs F were told the cost of the policy  during the 
meeting, but it was clearly set out on the loan agreement.  So I think theyd have known 
how much  theyd  need to pay for the PPI each month, and found this acceptable.
Ref: DRN23117182 Its possible the other information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have been. But they chose to take out the policy,  so they appear  to 
have wanted this type of cover. Mr F wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or 
limitations (for example, provisions  about existing medical conditions and unusual 
employment arrangements).  So I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs F would  have made a 
different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I think  theyd still 
have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account the comments that Mr and Mrs Fs representatives have made  about  
the up-front cost of the policy and what they say about Mr and Mrs F not being entitled  to a 
proportionate refund of the PPI premium if the loan was settled early. But Mr and Mrs F paid 
a monthly premium for the policy, not a single up-front amount. And they could have 
cancelled it at any time with no further payment. So these  points  dont change  my 
conclusion.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2311718