K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy  that Society of Lloyds has declined  a claim under his tenanted property 
insurance policy for fire damage.
background
Mr G owns a property which he has previously let out. In September 2017 he made a claim 
to Lloyds. He said vandals had broken into his empty property and started  a fire. Lloyds 
appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim.
The loss adjuster found out that the property hadnt  been occupied since November 2016. 
The policy was renewed in May 2017.  Lloyds said this meant Mr Gs policy  wasnt suitable 
for him because the property had been  unoccupied for more than 60 days.  It said it would 
treat the claim as if hed had an alternative policy for unoccupied properties.
Lloyds declined the claim under the policy for unoccupied properties. It said Mr G was in 
breach of a condition  to notify  it if there were any illegal occupiers in the property and 
another condition  that there  shouldnt  be any refuse  or waste materials  at the property.
Mr G said he wasnt aware of these conditions but thought he hadnt  been in breach of them  
anyway. He said the property had been  secure.  He also said the property was being 
refurbished and thats why there were items left in the property. The items left in the property 
werent waste but furniture which had been  moved downstairs so that he could make a start 
on decorating upstairs.
Lloyds didnt change  its decision  to decline the claim. Mr G complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Lloyds has provided evidence that it would only have  offered Mr G a policy for unoccupied 
properties if it had known on renewal that this property was or would  be empty for more than 
60 days. It wouldnt  have offered him a tenanted policy. Since the alternative is that Mr G 
wouldnt have had any cover at all, I think Lloyds acted reasonably  by treating this claim as 
though it were one under  a policy for unoccupied  properties. I appreciate that Mr G wouldnt 
have been aware  of the conditions relating  to unoccupied properties which  are different 
from those in his policy  for tenanted  properties.  But thats not Lloyds fault.  If Mr G had 
made Lloyds aware that the property was empty for refurbishment, he would  have received 
a copy of the policy wording appropriate to him.
Its a condition of the unoccupied properties  policy that:
All refuse and waste materials are removed from the interior of the premises  
According to the fire brigade report the fire started  by someone (probably a child) 
lighting paper  or cardboard in the living room. Lloyds  wrote to Mr G saying:
Underwriters refer you to the debris  at the scene and in particular the photographs  which  
were taken at the time which clearly show that there  was a large quantity of refuse and 
discarded timbers, waste products and plastic buckets as well as chipboard carcasses from 
a ripped out kitchen. Furthermore at first floor level there  was also combustible  paper 
materials littered across the floor most  of which had burned.
Ref: DRN22811952Mr G said these items were at the property because he was preparing to start refurbishing it. 
He said the kitchen units stored in the property  hadnt been removed but were ones which 
were due to be fitted. I accept that might  be the case. But having  looked at the photos taken 
by the loss adjuster I think there  was still a large amount of burnt  rubbish in the rooms 
including pieces of timber, building debris and paper. In terms of volume there  is far more  
than I think would be reasonable to expect solely in connection with refurbishment. So I think 
its likely  Mr G did breach the condition relating to rubbish.
Our approach to policy conditions is that if the breach doesnt materially  affect the claim or 
disadvantage the insurer, then it shouldnt be relied upon to decline the claim.  
In this case the waste papers were set alight.  Because  of that I think the breach of the 
security condition relating  to waste was materially connected with the claim. I understand 
Mr G will be disappointed by the fact that he doesnt have insurance cover  for a serious loss. 
But for the reason explained  above,  Im satisfied that Lloyds decision to decline the claim for 
non-compliance with this condition is fair and reasonable.
Only one condition  needs to be breached to say that Lloyds acted fairly in declining  the 
claim. So I dont need  to look at the other breach relied upon  by Lloyds or the related 
arguments Mr G has raised in defence.
In response Mr G made a number of points. In summary he said:
by law an insurer must not refuse to meet a claim on the ground that it was given 
incorrect information  unless the insured was fraudulent  or negligent.  Mr G said hed been  
neither fraudulent  nor negligent.
Lloyds wasnt entitled to rely on a breach of condition provided  that the insured could 
show that non-compliance  with the term could  not have increased the risk of the loss.
hed intended to reuse the items which Lloyds loss adjuster thought were waste. The 
papers were  good  quality books and comics that hed intended to give to charity.
the fire had been started deliberately  by intruders and regardless of the items in the 
property, it was built of materials that would have  caught  fire.
Lloyds should pay the claim unless  it could prove  he was connected to the arson.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds hasnt declined  Mr Gs claim on the ground  that he gave  it incorrect information. So I 
dont need to look at whether Mr G was fraudulent or negligent.
It declined the claim  on the ground  that Mr G had breached  two conditions. One condition 
was that there shouldnt  be any refuse  or waste materials at the property. This condition  is 
essentially a risk control measure on the part of Lloyds. Arson  often occurs  in unoccupied 
buildings. Insurers understandably may consider it important  to remove, so far as 
practicable, materials that burn easily and are available in the building  to an opportunist  
arsonist. So I think this condition was relevant to the loss (fire damage)  for which  Mr G was 
claiming. It is very different from, say, breach of a condition  to install  a burglar alarm when 
the claim is for flood  damage. If Mr G had complied with this condition,  it might have reduced 
Ref: DRN22811953the risk of the property being damaged by fire, not least as any fire that did occur would most 
likely not have spread  as far or as fast.
The property had been unoccupied  for almost a year by the time of the fire. I think  that was 
more than enough time for Mr G to remove anything he didnt want to keep.  Lloyds 
described the inside of the building as heavily loaded with building  debris,  rubbish,  and 
loose combustible  materials . From looking at the photos I think thats a fair description.  
There may well have  been some items that could have been used to refurbish  the property. 
But I can also see in the photos items such as car tyres and a large amount of loose papers. 
Some rooms were  crammed full of items which looked as though  theyd been discarded  
because of the way they were piled up untidily. I accept that not everything in the property 
may have  been  waste but I think there  were  certainly some refuse and waste materials  at 
the property. That means  Mr G was in breach  of the condition in the policy.
The official  fire report stated that the first item set alight was paper or cardboard and the 
amount of material in the property caused the fire to spread. So I dont think Lloyds  treated 
Mr G unfairly in treating  breach of this condition as something which  increased the risk of 
damage by fire.
Lastly Mr G has referred  me to an article  in which the writer (an insurance expert)  expressed  
the view that Unless it can be proven that the insured was connected to the arson, insurers  
cannot refuse to pay out. This is in the context of insurers refusing  to pay out in some  cases 
where they suspect  that the insured has caused  the fire. Thats  not an issue  in this case  
since its accepted  that the fire was caused  by third parties not connected  with Mr G. In any 
event this doesnt override any other policy conditions  on which an insurer  relies to decline a 
claim.
Unfortunately for Mr G, I remain of the view that Lloyds acted reasonably  in declining his 
claim.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2281195