K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T says Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a PPI policy with a further advance  on their mortgage  in 2000. They 
paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T say that they never asked for the PPI and it wasnt needed. YBS has said it 
wouldve made the optional nature clear and got Mr and Mrs Ts consent to add the policy.  
I dont know exactly what was discussed during the sale.  But where theres  a dispute about 
what happened, I have to base my decision on what I think  is most likely to have happened  
taking into account  all the evidence thats  available.
YBS have provided  us with a copy of the PPI application  Mr and Mrs T completed   it was a 
separate application to the mortgage.  The PPI application form included  questions about 
their personal details and monthly benefit  required.  I think there wouldve had to have been a 
discussion about PPI with Mr and Mrs T for them to select  the amount of cover they 
required. Mr and Mrs T have also chosen to cover for accident and sickness  only  tailoring 
the type of cover they wanted as there were other  options available. They have signed  the 
form  confirming their choices. So overall, I think YBS made  Mr and Mrs T aware that they 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that they chose to take it.
Mr and Mrs T say YBS advised them to buy the policy. YBS says it didnt recommend the 
policy. Looking at the PPI application, I can see that it didnt ask Mr and Mrs T any questions 
about their specific circumstances and only confirmed general  questions about their eligibility  
for the cover, so I dont  think this was an advised sale. Therefore Ive assessed the 
complaint on that basis. This means  that YBS didnt have to make sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs T. But it did have to make sure that Mr and Mrs T had enough 
information about the costs and main features of the policy to decide if they wanted it for 
themselves.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  So I need to consider if Mr and Mrs T wouldve acted differently and not 
bought the policy, if better  information had been provided. And I dont think they wouldve. I 
still think they would have bought the policy. I say this because:
Ref: DRN29942942Mr and Mrs T were  eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look as though  they wouldve 
been affected by things  the policy didnt cover, for example an unusual  employment 
circumstances or pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs T said they would both get six months full sick pay followed by six 
months half sick pay if they were off work  unwell.  And from what  theyve told us they 
didnt have any savings or other means they couldve used  to make their 
repayments. But this policy  wouldve  covered them for up to 12 months if they were  
unable to work through accident  or sickness. And it wouldve paid in addition  to any 
sick pay they mightve got. So I think Mr and Mrs T wouldve  thought  the policy 
couldve been useful  to them.
I think YBS couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But it looked 
like Mr and Mrs T wanted the cover, so even if it had, I think  they would still have 
bought it. I say this because  the Mr and Mrs T were taking out further borrowing with 
a mortgage, a significant financial  commitment. They  were  borrowing a large sum 
over a long period,  secured on their home.  The effects of not keeping up the 
repayments couldve been serious  for them. So Mr and Mrs T may have valued the 
extra peace  of mind the policy  gave  them. The policy  was also reasonable priced for 
the benefits it provided and was in line with similar  policies  from the time. 
So even if YBS didnt give them all the information they needed I dont think more, or better,  
information wouldve  made a difference to their decision  to buy it. And I dont think  Mr and 
Mrs T lost out as a result of anything YBS mightve  done wrong. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs T any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN29942943my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2994294