K820x#14complaint
Mr G, Mrs Gs son and the personal  representative  of her estate, has complained that The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  is unable to trace a policy held by Mrs G since  
March 1966 with a predecessor firm and isnt prepared to pay the policys claim value since  
she sadly died in 2015.
Mr G has requested Prudential to pay the policy  benefits and to compensate  Mrs Gs estate 
for failing to respond to his claim.  
background
Mrs Gs policy was arranged by her father  in March 1966. Mr G has provided  a Life 
Assurance Premium Certificate (LAPC) which confirms that the policy  was a Family Bond 
providing a sum assured of 68 pounds,  eight shillings, plus a seven per cent annual bonus  of 
four pounds, 16 shillings for a single premium  of seven pounds, eight shillings.
The LAPC  doesnt  indicate whether the policy is a whole life policy,  an endowment  policy or 
a fixed term bond,  so we dont  know whether the benefits are payable after a fixed  term or 
on earlier death, or only on death.
Mr G has explained that similar policies were  arranged for him, his sister and his father (Mrs 
Gs husband) by his grandfather and that, on his fathers death in 1992, a claim was made  
against his policy and the benefits were paid.
Prudential has confirmed  that Mrs Gs policy was originally set up, and administered,  by its 
predecessor firm, whose book of business  was transferred to Prudential  in 2001. All policies 
inherited by Prudential were given new policy numbers. As it has been unable to locate a 
policy in the name of Mrs G, the likelihood is that benefits under the policy have already been 
paid out by 2001. If a policy still existed, and had a value, in 2001, there would be a record  on 
its systems. 
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators, who initially felt that Prudential  
should pay Mr G £50 for failing to respond to his complaint even though,  at first, it admitted  it 
had taken over the administration  of these policies since 2001. 
But, on reflection,  she thought the complaint should  not be upheld, or compensation 
awarded, because  Mr G had made  a claim on a policy,  and not a complaint, to Prudential 
between May and September 2017, and also because:
Prudential would  be expected to hold details  of a policy  which is still in force but not 
for policies that may have been  cancelled or lapsed after a certain amount of time; 
this policy was a non-reviewable,  single premium policy  which is not likely to have 
changed since it was taken out over 50 years ago. As such,  while Prudential has 
confirmed that it carried out an extensive  search, it has  been  unable to trace a policy 
in Mrs Gs name and, therefore, it was probably  not transferred to Prudential  in 2001; 
the probability is that the policy had paid a claim before 2001; 
although Mr G has produced a LAPC for the bond, this isnt evidence of the policy or 
that it still exists with an available value;
it was reasonable  of Prudential to argue that its obliged to retain  policy information 
for six years after the policy  has expired  or been the subject of a claim. As this policy  
was taken out over 50 years  ago and the transfer of business to Prudential  took 
Ref: DRN24484342place more than 17 years ago, she couldnt  recommend it to recreate a policy if no 
record of it existed.
In response, Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment and said that:
as the policy  proceeds  were  payable  on Mrs Gs death  in 2015,  he couldnt  
see how Prudential  could  argue  that the policy  must have been claimed before 
2001. No payment  has been  made to Mrs Gs bank account for three years  before 
her death. Besides,  Prudential would not have known her bank account details;
the Life Assurance Premium Certificate  (LAPC) gives the Assured and Life Assured 
as Mrs G, so the policy paid the proceeds  on her death. A similar policy  held by his 
father, who died in 1992, paid a death  claim on production of the LAPC;
in arguing that the policy is no longer likely  to exist, Prudential  is assuming  that its 
records are infallible;
Prudential cant argue that, if the policy had been transferred to it in 2001, it would 
have written to Mrs G notifying her of that. But the policy was arranged by her father 
whose address was shown  for correspondence  and he died in 1975;
If a policy sold to a woman in her 30s that pays the proceeds on her death, a record  
of it should be held for life;
Both Mr G and his sister  took out a similar policy in 1966  and they can only provide a 
LAPC for their policies even though no claim has been made  (because  they are still 
alive).
In further correspondence with the adjudicator, Prudential  added that:
the LAPC Mr G has provided is not policy document;  its a certificate  the policyholder 
could present to the then Inland Revenue to claim any tax relief on the premium.  It is 
not evidence of the policy and, if Mr G claims  the policy  pays  the proceeds on death,  
he would  need to produce the policy document which should still be available;
Mr G has provided no evidence  to confirm that the policy was a life assurance plan. 
The policy document would confirm the term of the policy  and the event on which the 
benefits would be payable. If a claim payment hasnt  been  made  under the policy, the 
policy document should therefor still be available;
the policy was a fixed term investment bond, providing a claim payment at maturity 
after a specific term, or on earlier death. The policy term varied between 10 and 20 
years, which is denoted by the first two digits of the policy  number. Accordingly, 
Mrs Gs policy had a term of 10 years, which meant it matured in 1976.  If this policy  
was still in force and the proceeds were payable on death, the policy document  
should still be available to make this claim;
this policy was a one-off  product  and, therefore, all policies sold would have matured 
by 1986. There  may have been  a few unclaimed  policies after 1990 when this policy 
providers business was transferred to another firm. It was, therefore,  this firm, and 
not the original  provider, that would have settled  Mr Gs fathers policy  claim;
Prudential isnt responsible for settling a claim under this policy,  either  now or in 1976 
and shouldnt be expected to  retain any information  or records for a product it didnt 
sell, responsibility  for which was transferred  to another  business in 1990, over 28 
years ago. For this reason, the complaint should  not be made against Prudential.
When we put these points to Mr G, he replied  that:
Ref: DRN24484343its unsatisfactory that Prudential has been  able to provide a degree of information 
about the policy it wasnt able to give him when he complained  in 2017  or when he 
first referred the complaint  to our service. This shows a lack of transparency  on its 
part;
Prudential hasnt  provided any documentation  which shows that Mrs Gs policy  had a 
term of 10 years. If the policy provider had told him in 1993 (when he claimed under 
the policy held by his father)  that the policys term was denoted by the policy  number, 
he would  have  claimed under it then and not when  Mrs G died;
his understanding that the policy was life assurance plan comes from the LAPC  
describing Mrs G as the Assured and Life Assured;
he cant locate a policy document and suspects it was lost in the mid-1970s, some 
time before his grandfather (who arranged the policy) died;
the certificate has been held securely since 1975  on the understanding that the sum 
assured would be payable on Mrs Gs death;
its unfair that a huge organisation can deny a policy  still exists  when hes produced a 
document that shows it existed.  It cant safely conclude (without evidence) that the 
policy benefit has already been  paid by a predecessor firm.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to emphasise that I assess any complaint on the evidence thats been made 
available to me by each  side and, if that evidence is conflicting or lacking, I decide whose 
version of events is the more likely on the balance of probabilities. But, as a rule, the onus 
lies with Mr G, the complainant, to prove his case.  
Also, its not my role to act as advocate for Mr G to trace a policy once held by Mrs G from 
which he believes a claim payment is still due.
Not surprisingly, Prudential has been  unable to provide a copy of any literature for this 
product from 1966 and has relied  on recollections of staff from its predecessor firm for 
information on the policy held by Mrs G.  
I agree  with Prudentials  point  that the Life Assurance Premium Certificate provided by Mr G 
is not evidence  of the policy. Neither  is the LAPC required, or sufficient in itself,  to make a 
valid claim under it. That it remained in Mrs Gs possession  until she died doesnt  mean  a 
claim under the policy hadnt previously been  made.  It is the policy document that is 
evidence of the contract, and it is this document that needs to be produced for a valid claim 
to be met.
So, Im inclined to agree with Prudential also that, if Mr G cant provide the policy  document, 
the most  likely explanation for this is that a claim has already been  met under the policy.  But 
I cant say whether this claim  would  have been  paid in 1976, as Prudential  suggests.
Prudential has said policy numbers for the plans  held by Mr G and his sister (that had been  
set up for them in 1966 as well) signified that they would mature after 15 years.  And, as 
neither of them died within this policy term, the proceeds would have been paid to them  as a 
maturity value in 1981. This too would  explain  why they now only hold a LAPC  - in all 
Ref: DRN24484344likelihood, they would  have been required  to surrender their policy document to claim the 
maturity proceeds.
Likewise, if Mr Gs fathers policy would have paid a maturity value after a maximum term of 
20 years,  Prudential doesnt accept that his policy  became  a claim only when he died in 
1992, 26 years after the policy was set up for him. 
As set out earlier, we did put these scenarios to Mr G who says that neither he nor his sister 
has ever received a claim payment from their respective policies and that a claim under his 
fathers policy was met following his death  in 1992 on production  of the LAPC  alone. But Ive 
seen no evidence of a claim payment being made under this policy at that time.
  
So, given the lack of evidence provided  by either side, I must decide  that Mr Gs version of 
events is the more likely on the balance of probability for his complaint to be upheld.
I do sympathise with Mr Gs position that he needs  to show  on balance that a claim payment 
hasnt been made under  this policy. But, all things considered, given these policies were 
taken out more than 50 years  ago, and may have been administered by four different 
businesses since 1966 (unless, as Prudential  says, claims were met under all of them by 
1986), no documentation now exists which indicates  that Mrs Gs policy  is still in force.
I accept that the existence of a Life Assurance Premium Certificate (LAPC) does confirm  that 
a policy  was taken  out for Mrs G in March 1966.  But production of this certificate  isnt 
evidence that the policy is still active or that no claim  has previously been made under it.
In all probability, a policy  document would have been issued to Mrs G in March  1966. This is 
evidence of the contract, which she would be required to give up when making a claim under 
it. That Mr G is unable to produce this document would, on balance,  indicate that a claim has 
previously been  met. 
I accept its possible the policy  document may have  been lost; in which  case, the provider 
would require the policyholder to complete a lost policy declaration to establish proof of title 
in circumstances  where a claim  is payable.  But theres no evidence  in this case  of a claim 
payment being  due.
That the LAPC shows Mrs G as the Assured and Life Assured simply indicates that she 
was the policyholder whose life was insured. It doesnt indicate that the policy paid a claim 
only when she died,  and not beforehand. An endowment policy  or a fixed  term bond would 
also show Mrs G as the Life Assured  to confirm that a claim was payable  on her death, but 
only if she died before the policy  matured.
On the other hand, while Prudential has argued  that the number of Mrs Gs policy denotes  it 
would have matured  in 1976,  theres no evidence for that either. So, its not possible to know 
whether and when  the policy matured to determine  the business  against which  Mr G should 
be complaining.  Without  some evidence that the policy number does denote the term of the 
policy, I cant be sure that it did mature in 1976  and that Mr Gs complaint  should be made 
against a business other  than Prudential.
Nevertheless, the onus  does lie with Mr G to prove  his case  on the balance of probabilities  
and, in my view, he hasnt  provided sufficient evidence that a policy held by Mrs G remains 
in force  and that a claim payment is still outstanding on it.
Ref: DRN24484345decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2448434