K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc cancelled  a direct debit to Mrs Rs pension  
provider in April 2016. As a result,  Mrs R says shes receiving a lower benefit from her 
pension. 
background
Mrs R had a direct debit in place from the HSBC current account to make payments towards 
her pension. Mrs R says that on 22 April 2016 HSBC cancelled  her direct debit. 
In 2018 Mrs R became  aware that her pension provision was lower than expected and 
contacted her provider.  The pension provider  said the direct debit from HSBC  had stopped 
on 22 April 2016. Mr and Mrs R complained to HSBC. 
HSBC responded  but said its systems  showed Mr and Mrs R had cancelled  the direct  debit  
using their online banking  facility so didnt agree an error had been made. Mr and Mrs R 
referred their complaint  to this service  and an investigator looked at what  had happened.  
The investigator said HSBCs evidence showed it hadnt cancelled  the direct debit in 2016 so 
didnt ask it to do anything else to resolve the complaint. 
The investigator forwarded the systems information to Mr and Mrs R but they remain  of the 
view that HSBC cancelled  the direct debit. As Mr and Mrs R remain  unhappy their 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about whether the systems evidence HSBC  has supplied  in this case  
reasonably shows  that Mr and Mrs R cancelled the direct debit using their online banking 
facility. Whilst I dont  doubt their concerns are entirely genuine, I think  the evidence here is 
clear in showing that the direct debit wasnt cancelled by HSBC. Ill explain why. 
Like the investigator, Ive looked  at the systems evidence and can see that when HSBC 
does something on the account it records that with an input user ID  a code that shows  who 
made the change. So I think its likely  this type of code  would be showing on its systems if 
HSBC had cancelled  the direct debit  to Mrs Rs pension provider, but it isnt. 
Ive looked at the whole audit report and I can see other occasions where direct debit 
instructions have been cancelled. For example, on 16 May 2016 a different direct debit 
instruction was cancelled and the information on the audit report is the same as that for the 
pension direct debit  cancellation. So I think the same  party  is likely to have cancelled  both.
Mr and Mrs R havent complained to say any of their other direct debits have been cancelled 
by HSBC in error. And I think thats important as it indicates, in addition  to the systems 
evidence, that Mr and Mrs R were  likely  the party that cancelled them. As the audit report  is 
the same  for all the cancelled direct debit instructions I think the evidence  shows  they were 
cancelled online by Mr and Mrs R. 
Ref: DRN25236252HSBCs confirmed the last payment made  to Mrs Rs pension provide was on 22 April 2016 
but the direct debit  instruction was cancelled on 19 May 2016. Thats backed up by the 
systems evidence Ive seen. 
I also note that systems  evidence shows on 19 May 2016 two direct debit instructions were  
cancelled around  two minutes  apart.  The first, for a different  business,  was cancelled at 
21:31. The second cancellation was the pension direct debit instruction at 21:33. Again, I 
note Mr and Mrs R havent  complained about the other direct debit that was cancelled on 
19 May 2016 so I think its more  likely  than not that they cancelled  it. Given two direct debits 
were cancelled within two minutes of each other  and the systems evidence  shows that was 
done using Mr and Mrs Rs online banking facility,  Ive not found  HSBC  was responsible. 
I know Mrs R is concerned  that the audit report says the direct debit was previously audited  
on 28JLY2011 . But HSBCs confirmed that date relates to the last time something  changed  
on the direct  debit instruction, not the date it was cancelled. 
Taking everything together, Im satisfied HSBC didnt cancel the direct debit instruction to 
Mrs Rs pension provider and that it was done via Mr and Mrs Rs online banking facility.  As 
a result,  Ive not found HSBC made  a mistake so Im not telling it to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my 
decision before  12 March 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2523625