K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest/the bank) have not acted on 
his request to contact  him only by post and wants the bank to tell him whether  they plan to 
charge him for sending  him things on paper in the future.
background
At the end of 2017 Mr G asked NatWest to remove his email address from their systems and 
to send him all future information in the mail.  They agreed to do that but in May 2018 Mr G 
received an email copy of some paperwork.  When he complained the bank couldnt explain 
why his email address  had been  added  back  into their system. They sent paper copies of the 
documentation to him in the post,  said they would remove  his email address again and 
apologised to him for any inconvenience caused.
Mr G remained  concerned  and brought this complaint, and others which  I dont intend to 
discuss here, to our service.  He also wanted  some  reassurance that he wasnt going to be 
charged for getting  things sent to him in the post,  and that he could continue to use online 
banking even without  an email address being  used. 
Our adjudicator looked into things on Mr Gs behalf. He was able to get confirmation from the 
bank that online banking was still available to Mr G, and that there were  no plans to 
introduce charges  for paper statements at that time.  
The bank answered his question about  online  banking but Mr G still had concerns  about:
- whether  he could  be asked to pay postage costs in the future; and
- the fact bank didnt  know how his email address got back on their system. 
He asked for an ombudsman to consider  his case so its come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im aware that Ive simplified  the matters Mr G has complained about. I dont intend  any 
discourtesy by this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on 
what I think are the key issues. I can assure Mr G and NatWest that Ive considered 
everything and if Ive not mentioned something its just that I dont think I need  to comment  
on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. While I know  Mr G will 
be disappointed  I think that the adjudicators decision  was the right one. Ill explain why. 
I can see that Mr G feels strongly that he, and other customers, should  have the right to deal 
with their bank by post free of charge. And he wants to be sure this wont change. But Im 
afraid he cant look to our service to promise him that because its not part of our role to 
interfere with the way banks exercise their commercial judgement.  And what, if anything,  
they charge for their services is a commercial decision. 
NatWest have investigated and say they dont know how Mr Gs email address got back  on 
their system. I can understand why Mr G might not be very reassured by that but I think  they 
Ref: DRN23643792have been honest and acknowledged that it shouldnt have happened. They have also 
apologised to him and I think that is enough  to put things right in these circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Nicola Crabb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2364379