K821x#15complaint
The Estate of Mr T (the Estates) complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is in respect  
of disputed transactions made from the late Mr Ts account, which  it wants  HSBC to refund.
background
Ms S complains  on behalf  of her late father,  Mr Ts, estate. 
Mr T died on 8 November 2017,  after being in hospital and in a coma  since  
30 October 2017. HSBC  wasnt  notified  of his passing until February 2018, when it placed a 
block on his account,  and Probate was begun.
The Estate says that a large  number of ATM  withdrawals  and cheque  payments were made 
from Mr Ts account  from August  2017 until after he died. It doesnt  think Mr T authorised  
these, as the signature on the cheques dont match  Mr Ts signature,  and he wouldnt have 
authorised anyone else to use his card and PIN.
Its understood that there may be a family dispute going on behind the scenes, and the 
police have been involved.  The person making  the withdrawals from the account is thought 
to be Mr Ts long-term partner. And the cheques  issued  from the account  seem to have been 
paid to this partner, and the children Mr T had with her. Mr Ts partner is also a third party  on 
his account.
The Estate believes HSBC should be responsible  for the loss to the account during this time,  
totalling many thousands  of pounds.  This is on the basis  that from August 2017 irregular and 
unusual patterns started to form on the account; with frequent large cash withdrawals, and 
cheques for large  sums issued to multiple  payees.  The Estate believes HSBC  should have 
noticed these  as unusual and suspicious, and blocked the account.
The Estate complained to HSBC, and it replied saying it didnt believe it had done  anything 
wrong, and there was no need for it to take any preventative action until it knew  about Mr Ts 
passing  which wasnt until February 2018. And that all the disputed  transactions  took place 
before this, and no fraud alerts were  triggered.  
Ms S didnt agree, and brought  her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and received further information  from both parties.  He 
concluded that HSBC couldnt be held responsible for the cheque  withdrawals,  as there  was 
no reason to be suspicious of them. But he felt that the cash  withdrawals from 30 October 
2018 onwards  should  be refunded  on the basis that Mr T was very ill and in hospital  at the 
time, so couldnt have  authorised them. So, he asked it to refund £4,600 to the Estate. 
Ms S remained unhappy. She still believed all of the payments should  be refunded as the 
late Mr T hadnt  authorised them. She felt his account has been accessed fraudulently, and 
that as HSBC hadnt taken sufficient steps to protect  it, it should  be responsible for the 
losses to the Estate.
HSBC also didnt agree  with our Investigators view. It didnt think it should be responsible  for 
any of the cash  withdrawals, as it argued  that the same authority that existed pre Mr Ts 
hospitalisation carried on after he was incapacitated.  Whoever  was using his card knew his 
PIN, so it appeared that all of the ATM transactions  were authorised. 
Ref: DRN23945092However, in acknowledgement of the sad circumstances surrounding the complaint, HSBC 
did agree  to refund £4,600 as a goodwill gesture in an effort to resolve matters. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaints come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the current suggested settlement offer by HSBC to pay £4,600 as a 
goodwill gesture to the Estate is fair. And Im not going to ask it to do anything  more.
I appreciate this decision will come  as a great disappointment to Ms S, and the Estate, and 
Id like to explain why Ive reached it.
First of all, Id like to extend my genuine condolences to Ms S. Losing a family member  is 
very difficult,  so to add to that an element of dispute and having to raise  a complaint must 
have made  matters worse. 
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. My role is to assess  all the evidence,  and 
then decide what  I think a fair outcome  is. In doing  so, I need to think  about both parties.  
This means  that in this complaint I need  to look at whether I think HSBC made any mistakes, 
and if so, what I think it needs to do to put things right.
But Im afraid I dont think it did make mistakes. Its job was to offer banking facilities  to Mr T, 
and thereafter  his Estate, and to keep any funds secure by following all the necessary 
identification and security processes. And I think it did this. The ATM withdrawals were  all 
made with the genuine card and PIN. As we cant ask the late Mr T how this happened, we 
have to consider  what was likely.  And I think it was likely that he allowed his partner to use 
his card and PIN. To what extent, and over what timeframe, isnt clear. But in that respect I 
have to give the benefit of the doubt to HSBC, as theres not enough  evidence  to suggest 
that anything suspicious was going on that it failed to see and stop,  or that it didnt follow its 
own proper processes. 
And, unlike our Investigator, I think this also applies  to all the ATM withdrawals  including 
the ones made while Mr T was in hospital.  In that respect, I agree with HSBC that these 
shouldnt be treated any differently to the others  (the pre-hospitalisation ones), where we 
think its more likely  than not that they were authorised. Whoever made  them had the 
genuine card and PIN, and weve not been  made  aware of any theft or point of compromise. 
So I dont  think its unreasonable for HSBC to decide that the withdrawals were made with 
Mr Ts knowledge  and consent.
However, as HSBC has already agreed  to refund the post-30  October  2018 transactions  as 
a goodwill gesture, Im happy to accept that as a fair and reasonable offer. 
In respect of the various  cheques, all issued to people known to Mr T, and cashed at 
different times, I dont think HSBC made any mistakes  here either. I know  Ms S asserts  that 
the writing and signature on them  doesnt  match her fathers, but Im persuaded that theyre 
Ref: DRN23945093sufficiently similar to the signature on the Will, and the banks  mandate,  that theyre  likely to 
be genuine. 
As Ms Ss already been advised, we cant award  compensation for distress and 
inconvenience to her as an individual, as shes complaining on behalf  of the Estate. I do note 
all the work  shes had to do bringing  this complaint, and the time its all taken. And I accept  
there were occasions where HSBCs service fell below what she was entitled to expect. But I 
cant ask it to pay her anything for this, as this would  be for her personal suffering. Further, if 
I havent found that HSBCs made any mistakes, I cant  order compensation in any event.
Im sorry  this isnt the news Ms S was hoping for. It may be that the police investigation 
proves more fruitful.  But I do hope Ive explained the limits to our service,  and that this is the 
only fair decision I can reach on the evidence. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in respect of the suggested settlement offer 
made by HSBC Bank UK Plc to pay the Estate £4,600. As this is a goodwill gesture, Im not 
asking that interest  be added.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S, on behalf of 
the Estate, to accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2394509