K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco  Bank), use weekend  
and bank holiday days as payment due dates;  calculate interest on the average  daily 
balance, not the statement balance; and do not permit complaints being logged  via email.
background
Mrs O has had a Tesco Bank credit card for a number of years. She makes  the minimum 
payment by direct debit  each month and pays the remaining  balance  over the phone on the 
due date.
In July 2018, Mrs Os credit card statement showed  that her payment fell due on 
Sunday 19 August. The minimum payment left her bank account on Monday 20 August and 
she made a faster payment  to clear the balance on the same  day.  
Mrs Os August statement  showed the direct debit payment transaction  date as 19 August 
and received on 20 August, and the faster payment  as received on Monday 20 August. Her 
bank account  statement  shows  both payments leaving her account on 20 August. Interest 
accrued is shown as £5.91. Due to transactions made, the interest for the following 
statement showed as £56.37. Total interest  over the two statements was £62.28.
Mrs O raised a complaint  with Tesco Bank  on 11 October 2018. She stated that most credit 
card providers do not ask for payments to be made on a weekend day. If they do, they 
always treat payments made on the next working  day as being  made  on time and not late. 
She explained it was unfair that the faster payment was being treated differently to the direct 
debit, with reference to the received date. Mrs O explained that £62.28  interest on a £35 
debt (the amount due to be paid on 19 August) was obscene. She also complained that she 
wasnt able to raise her complaint by email.
On 24 October, Tesco Bank explained that payments must be received by the due date even 
if this falls on the weekend. They further  explained  that interest is calculated on the average 
daily balance, not the statement balance. They state this is on the reverse  of her monthly 
statement and detailed  in their terms and conditions. Finally,  they explained that they dont 
offer secure messaging or email as a way to log complaints for security  purposes. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs O brought this matter to us and further  shared her concern that 
appeals processes are funded by banks  and therefore feels  they are not independent.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. The impartiality of our service was also 
explained. Mrs O did not agree  with our investigators view and has stated that a direct  debit  
leaves account  A and deposits in account B simultaneously. She has also raised  some  
points that she would  like us to raise with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Because  
Mrs O didnt accept the investigators  assessment, this has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payments made by direct debit
Having reviewed Mrs Os current account statement, I can see that her direct  debit  payment  
left her account on 20 August. Mrs O is correct in her understanding that a direct  debit 
Ref: DRN20498362transaction is debited  to her current account  and deposited in the receiving account 
simultaneously. This is why the received date on her credit card statement and the direct 
debit date on her bank statement match.
However, in practice,  this is down to the way in which  the direct debit system  operates. As 
the credit  card account terms  and conditions confirm, direct  debit payments are initiated a 
number of days before the transfer  of funds actually takes place. So, because the payment 
was already in train by the payment due date, Tesco  would be aware that it would receive 
the money. It therefore took the decision to treat the direct debit payment received on 
20 August as if it had been received by the due date. However, that information  relates  only 
to payments made  by direct debit.  The payment Tesco Bank deemed as late was made by 
Mrs O by faster payment, rather than direct debit.
Faster Payments
Tesco Bank account statements contain information regarding  the payment due date. On the 
statement in question, the payment due date is clearly shown as 19 August, a Sunday. 
Mrs O has said she made  her faster payment  on 20 August. She says she did so based  on 
her belief that most other  credit card providers do not ask for payments to be made on a 
weekend (and if they do, they always treat the payment made on the next working day as 
having been made on the payment due date).
There isnt anything to suggest that Tesco Bank  operates   or led Mrs O to believe it 
operates  such  a system, other than for direct debit payments as mentioned above. The 
reasonable expectation, then, would be that payment should be made  no later than the due 
date (and in practice, it might sometimes be necessary to do so earlier to ensure the money 
is received by the due date).
On Mrs Os statement, alongside each  method  of payment is the recommended time to 
allow payments to reach and be credited to the credit card account. For faster payments, it 
says they can take between  2 and 48 hours to be processed and that the funds will be 
credited to the credit card account as soon as they are received. Of course, as Mrs O made  
her payment  after the due date, this case doesnt  really hinge on the time taken to process 
faster payments.
I can appreciate Mrs O assumed that making payment after the due date would be 
acceptable. But I cant fairly say that this was a reasonable assumption,  or down to anything  
that Tesco said. Nor is there anything to suggest  the Mrs O contacted Tesco  Bank 
beforehand to discuss when she was planning on making the payment. I therefore cannot 
see anything to suggest Tesco Bank  was wrong to deem the faster  payment as having been 
made any earlier than the day Mrs O made it, being  20 August. 
Tesco Banks interest calculation
In light of Mrs Os concerns, I think its important to address what appears to be a 
misunderstanding over the way in which interest  is calculated on her credit card account.  
Mrs O appears  to be under the impression that she has been charged  £62.28  interest based 
on her £25 faster payment being  received one day late. But that isnt the way interest  is 
charged.
Rather, as the account statements and terms and conditions make  clear, if the balance is not 
paid in full by the payment  due date, interest  is charged from the date the transaction occurs, 
not from the day after the payment due date. In other words, interest is calculated  from the 
date the money  is borrowed, rather than the payment due date. 
Ref: DRN20498363Section 3(f) of the terms and conditions state: 
If you repay the total balance outstanding on a Statement within 25 days of the statement 
date, no interest will be charged  on purchases  or balance transfers appearing on that 
statement. If you do not repay the total balance in any month interest will continue  to be 
charged on transactions until full repayment  is credited  to the card account.
And on the reverse of the credit card statement  it also says:
If the account is not fully cleared, interest  will be charged on the average  daily balance  until 
full payment is made and credited to your account.
As Ive noted, Mrs O didnt pay her balance in full by the payment due date. The £62.28  total 
interest is from two statements, £5.91  from the July statement and £56.37 from the August 
statement. Tesco Bank has explained  that the average daily balance for the July statement 
was £417.12 and was £4261.25 for the August statement. I have  considered Mrs Os points 
and I do understand  her frustration given than she has not found herself in this situation 
previously, however it does not seem  that Tesco Bank has applied interest wrongly.  The 
interest has accrued  as the balance was not paid within  25 days  of the statement  date.    
Complaining to Tesco Bank
Tesco Bank has explained that they do not permit  complaints being logged via email or 
secure message  for security reasons. It is up to them to decide how they permit 
communication with consumers and to mitigate  against security risks. I do understand that 
not being able to use email has been an inconvenience for Mrs O. They  have said they are 
regularly reviewing their services with security  and ease in mind,  but in the meantime the 
alternative means remain available. This seems to be a fair approach.
On a final note,  Im conscious that Mrs O has suggested that the way in which Tesco  Bank 
administers its credit card accounts should be referred to the FCA, as the financial  services 
regulator in the UK. My review of her complaint doesnt prompt me to make such  a referral, 
in light of the reasons Ive set out here. There  is nothing to prevent Mrs O from making such 
a referral herself, should she have any residual concerns. But I hope this will not be 
necessary and my explanation here has enabled her to understand why the situation 
developed as it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2049836