K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has unfairly declined a claim 
under his gadget insurance  policy for the loss of a gaming handset.
background
Mr B had a gaming  handset which was lost in December 2018.  He made a claim to 
Assurant. In order to progress the claim,  Mr B was asked to provide proof of purchase which  
contained the serial  number  of the handset.
Although Mr B had receipts from the purchase, he didnt  have  a record of the serial  number. 
Assurant subsequently declined Mr Bs claim. It said that, under the terms and conditions  of 
the policy, it was entitled  to ask for paperwork showing both proof  of purchase and the serial 
number. On the basis Mr B couldnt  provide the serial number, it declined his claim.
Unhappy with this, Mr B contacted this service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened. She considered Assurant  was entitled  to rely on the policy terms and conditions, 
so didnt recommend  it needed to settle Mr Bs claim. As Mr B didnt agree, this matter has 
been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is of the view that because hes provided proof of purchase, Assurant should  accept  
and settle his claim. My role here is to decide  if I think Assurant has acted  fairly  when 
assessing Mr Bs claim. And, Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but Im satisfied it has. 
Like the investigator, Ive considered all the information provided, including the terms and 
conditions of the Mr Bs policy, which Ive copied below:
We need  to know that the gadget you are claiming  for us yours We may ask to 
see something that tells us that the items  you are claiming for belong to you and 
confirmed the make, model or serial number and  memory size of your gadget
I think Assurant has applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly when asking for not 
only proof of purchase, but also the serial number to support the claim.  As far as I can see, it 
was entitled to ask for this information under  the terms of the policy. So I cant say it has 
acted unfairly by asking  for this information.  
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration in that hes been able to provide  proof  of purchase. However, I 
am satisfied  the terms of the policy clearly set out what information  was needed in order to 
verify and consider this claim. On the basis Mr B hasnt been able to provide the serial  
number of the handset; I think Assurant has declined the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
On the basis Im satisfied  Assurant has considered  the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy; I dont think it needs  to consider Mr Bs claim any further. 
Ref: DRN21352992my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against  Assurant General  Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2135299