complaint  
Mr S has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc has recorded a claim as a fault claim 
against his car insurance policy on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database.  
background  
Mr S was involved in an incident with another driver which he says was the  other drivers 
fault. Unfortunately Mr S said that the other driver drove away before Mr S was able to take 
the details of the registration plate  but he was able to give some details about the vehicle 
to AXA and the police.  
AXA investigated the claim a nd was unable to trace the other driver. This meant it wasnt 
able to look to recover its costs for dealing with Mr Ss claim from a third party. So AXA 
recorded the claim as a fault claim.  
When AXA sent Mr S renewal documents it referred to the accident as being one that Mr S 
was to blame for.  
Mr S was very unhappy about this as he said he wasnt to blame for the incident which 
resulted in his claim. But AXA said it had correctly recorded the claim in line with the policy 
and industry standard.  
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint.  
Our investigator thought AXA had acted reasonably. But Mr S didnt agree. He wants AXA to 
acknowledge that the wording it uses is wrong, delete the record and apologise to him for 
the stress and trouble  this issue has caused  him. 
As Mr S didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.  
Mr Ss policy says that AXA will record all incidents on a  central database. CUE is used by 
most insurers to record all incidents and is designed to prevent fraud. CUE is a separate 
company and isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. AXA has provided details of 
how the claim has been recorded on CUE. It doesnt specify if the claim was a fault or non 
fault claim. But it records the costs of the claim and whether Mr Ss no claims discount was  
K820x#14  
DRN2848324 
 
 
 
 
 
 
affected by the claim. These are things that other insurers might look at (along with other 
factors) when deciding a premium based on a customers claims history.  
 
I understand Mr B is unhappy with the wording AXA has used on the policy documents it 
sent h im. It says that Mr B was to blame for the incident. I agree that the terminology used 
across the insurance industry might be better worded by referring to claims as either 
recoverable or non recoverable when it comes to the costs of a claim. But it is nt for us to 
decide that. What we know is that the insurance industry recognises that the term fault or 
non fault doesnt necessarily mean the individual was at fault for the claim  but that a claim 
will be recorded as fault claim if the full costs w erent recovered from a third party at  fault.  
 
I understand how strongly Mr S feels about the reference to the incident as being his fault 
and AXAs use of the word blame. But I cant say that hes been treated unfairly by AXA as 
its recorded the clai m correctly in line with the industry standard. This is consistent with how 
it  and other insurers - would record a claim for any other customer where the costs couldnt 
be recovered, irrespective of the words blame or fault being used.  
 
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But I cant say that AXA has acted 
unreasonably. And this means I dont think it needs to do any more.  
 
my final decision  
 
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2019.  
 
 
 
 
 
Geraldine Newbold  
ombudsman  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 