K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC will not refund any commission  it received 
from his loan payment  protection insurance (PPI) premiums for the policy he took out in June 
2000.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr Vs complaint about commission. Thats because 
it has already been decided  that we are unable to look into the sale of the PPI policy.
Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr V, and Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Barclays has given me information  that shows  Mr  Vs loan was taken out in 2000 and ended 
in 2001. So based on what Ive said above,  I dont think the unfair  relationship provisions in 
the Consumer  Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made  by 
the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So Barclays  doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mr V paid for the PPI he had with 
his loan.
Ref: DRN29204262my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2920426