K821x#15complaint
In summary  Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy that Standard Life Assurance Limited didnt notify  
them that their term assurance policy was coming  to an end. They are also unhappy  that it 
told them  the policy term could be extended  when it couldnt.
background
Mr and Mrs Y had a level term assurance  policy which  came  to an end in July 2018. 
Standard Life wrote to Mr and Mrs Y in 2010 to tell them their cover  stopped  in July 2018 
and that it couldnt be extended. 
Mr Y said that he contacted Standard  Life in 2017 and was told that the policy could be 
extended before it ended. Mr Y contacted Standard Life again in August 2018 when he 
noticed that the direct debits for the policy had stopped being taken. It told him that the policy 
had come to an end, that it couldnt be extended  and that it couldnt offer them  new life 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Y werent happy  with being told this and arranged new life cover for Mr Y with 
another provider.  But this was for a reduced  sum assured and an increased premium.  
They complained to Standard Life about what had happened. It upheld their complaint in 
part. In summary this was because it hadnt  written to Mr and Mrs Y informing  them the plan 
was expiring, which meant they didnt have  the opportunity prior to the cover stopping  to get 
new life cover. And it offered  £552  for the upset and inconvenience caused  to them. It also 
said it no longer sells life cover.
Mr and Mrs Y didnt  think Standard Lifes offer was enough and their complaint was looked  
into by one of our investigators. She thought the offer Standard  Life had made  was fair. 
Mr and Mrs Y didnt  agree and the case was passed to me for review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 7 January 2019, explaining why I intended to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ys complaint in part. And I asked for any responses from both parties  by 
21 January 2019.  
Mr Y said that he didnt think the compensation I had suggested  was enough.  He wanted 
£1,000 in compensation and said that his old policy ended on 6 June 2018 not 6 July 2018.  
Standard life accepted  my provisional  decision  but asked for clarification  that the extent of 
any claim would be limited  to the amount of new cover that was in place. And that any claim 
between 6 July and 20 August 2019 would only be in the event of death by natural causes. 
Our investigator provided Standard Life with a copy of the new policy  schedule.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I remain of the opinion 
that Mr and Mrs Ys complaint should  be upheld in part. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Although Mr and Mrs Y were  told back in 2010 the date the policy would expire  and that it 
couldnt be extended, I wouldnt necessarily expect them to remember the information they 
Ref: DRN21496732had been given at that time. Mr Y has also said he spoke to Standard Life in 2017 and was 
told the policy could  be extended - and that he would be contacted nearer the time the plan 
was due to end. 
Standard Life has said that it has no record of a phone  call where  extending the policy  was 
discussed; but it was happy to accept Mr Ys word. Ive looked  at the key features document 
provided by Standard Life. This says it is possible to extend the term of the policy at an 
additional cost,  if that option is added at the start of the policy. It doesnt  look like this option 
was added when  Mr and Mrs Y took out the policy. But as the option  to extend the policy 
does appear to exist,  I think  its plausible that Mr Y may have been  told this when  he spoke 
to Standard Life in 2017. And taking  into account  this corroborative evidence,  I have no 
reason to doubt what Mr Y has said. 
Also Standard Life has accepted that due to a system error, Mr and Mrs Y werent  told in 
advance their insurance was about  to expire;  which meant they didnt have  the opportunity 
prior to the cover stopping to get new life cover. 
Im satisfied that if Mr and Mrs Y had been told in advance the policy  was coming to an end, 
they would  have taken steps to put new life cover in place. I say this because  shortly after 
they found out the policy had come  to an end and that it couldnt be extended; they took 
steps to take out new life cover on Mr Ys life only. My understanding  is that they could only 
afford to take out life cover  for Mr Y only for a reduced  level of cover. And theyve provided a 
copy of the policy schedule. 
The life cover taken  out by Mr Y has a restriction. It will only pay out if he dies from natural 
causes, after one year from the commencement  date. So the policy  will only pay out from 
20 August 2019.  But for the reasons Ive already  outlined above,  I think Mr and Mrs Y would 
have had life cover in place  for when their existing cover ended  on 6 July 2018. Ive thought  
about what Mr Y has said about the policy ending on 6 June 2018.  But from everything Ive 
seen including  the correspondence  sent by Standard life in 2010, Im satisfied that the policy 
did end in July 2018. 
I think that even if Standard Life had told Mr and Mrs Y in advance  that their policy  was 
coming to an end in July, they would still have been in the position of having to take out new 
life cover.  And I also believe that any cover would more than likely have had the restriction  
the policy Mr Y took out has. But as Standard  Life has accepted,  by not informing  them the 
plan was expiring,  this meant they didnt have the opportunity prior to the cover stopping to 
put new life cover in place. So rather than their new insurance being  in force  in the event  of 
death from natural  causes  from 6 July 2019, it only comes into effect  from 20 August 2019. 
Standard Life has offered  £552 for the upset and inconvenience Mr and Mrs Y have 
experienced as a result of what has happened. This has also taken into account the cost of 
the first years premiums  for the new policy. And from everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
they were likely to have been very upset and distressed when they discovered  that their life 
policy had come to an end and couldnt  be extended. I do understand that Mr Y doesnt think  
that is enough to compensate him and Mrs Y. But it isnt the role of this service to punish 
businesses. We look at individual  complaints.  And I think this is an appropriate amount of 
monetary compensation  for the upset  theyve experienced.  
But as Ive explained, Mr and Mrs Y also find themselves in the position that the cover  for 
Mr Y wont  start until August 2019  rather than July 2019. So in in addition to the £552 that 
Standard Life has offered,  I think it should  also pay any claim made on Mr Ys new policy  if 
Ref: DRN21496733he were to die from natural causes  between 6 July 2019 and 20 August 2019. This would be 
on the basis that Mr Ys insurance provider would have paid the claim if he died within that 
period  and that Mr Y had made all of the monthly  payments.  And this should be limited  to 
the sum assured under the new policy which is £5,063. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is to uphold  in part Mr and Mrs Ys 
complaint about  Standard Life Assurance Limited.  And if Mr and Mrs Y accept my decision, I 
direct Standard Life Assurance  Limited  to compensate  Mr and Mrs Y in the way Ive outlined 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2149673