K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited  may have  mismanaged his pension due to it thinking 
he was resident outside the UK.
Background
ReAssure have been administering Mr Ms pension policies since inception. Mr M called the 
business to change his address on 21 September 2018. Subsequently  ReAssure  sent him a 
letter on the same  date which included the following:
As you have returned to live in the UK the premiums  that you are paying may change.  
Before you left the United Kingdom  your premiums contained an element of tax relief.  This 
was lost when  you moved  abroad and your premiums increased. You may now be allowed 
tax relief on your premiums again.
Mr M complained as he was unhappy with the wording on the letter as he had not moved 
back to the UK from abroad; he had simply changed  address within the UK. ReAssure sent 
their final response letter  stating that the wording on the letter was incorrect;  but it had no 
impact on any of Mr Ms policies. ReAssure offered to make  a payment of £50 for the trouble 
and upset this matter had caused  Mr M. However, Mr M believes ReAssure should pay for 
an independent review of his policies  to put his mind at rest as he feels  there may be errors  
due to him being recorded as being  an overseas resident.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should not be upheld.  He stated 
that he had seen internal notes confirming ReAssure had looked into his policies and the 
error was with the letter and not the policies. This was also confirmed  to Mr M in the final 
response letter. The adjudicator agreed that the error was due to ReAssure changing Mr Ms 
address and adding United Kingdom  to it, which was previously absent. It was this which  
had caused the acknowledgement letter to include the wording stating Mr M had moved 
back to the United Kingdom from abroad and comments regarding  his tax position.
The adjudicator agreed that Mr Ms complaint was correctly upheld  and he was paid £50. 
However, he felt that it would be unfair  to ask ReAssure to pay for an independent  review  of 
Mr Ms policies  due to this error. Mr M did not agree. He stated that he has lost faith in 
ReAssure and he couldnt be certain his policies were correct  and there  hadnt  been other 
errors. He asked an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN20754062My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
It is regrettable that Mr M has lost faith in ReAssure, but I dont consider it should appoint  a 
third party to review his pension policies. The letter issued after he notified  the business  of 
his change of address  gave him cause  to be concerned that he had been treated as non-
resident which  would have had an impact  on the tax position of his policies.
When he complained  to ReAssure I can see from its internal records that a check was made 
to ensure all was in order. The reference  to him residing abroad arose simply due to his 
previous address not being recorded  as in the UK and the computer system automatically 
included a reference to him being non-resident.  I have  no reason to believe  his policies were 
affected as he fears.
Mr M says the letter is just an example of the incompetence of the business  and he had 
previously encountered failings on its part. He says this was around 2011 and 2012 and he 
complained at the time. He says that these  and other matters have caused him lose 
confidence in the business.
He has noted  that ReAssure  used  a UK postcode  when writing to him at his old address and 
it should have  been obvious  he wasnt living  abroad.  I understand that the missing UK on 
his records was sufficient  to trigger the letter and the computer system didnt override that 
because he had a UK postcode.
I appreciate Mr M regards ReAssures response as it marking  its own homework. I dont 
agree and I am happy to accept that it has carried out an appropriate  check  to ensure 
nothing has gone  amiss due to this error.
I understand Mr M will be dissatisfied with my decision, but I dont believe there are grounds 
which would allow me to uphold his complaint. Finally, I would add that I consider the £50 
paid by the business is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
27 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2075406