K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms C, who are represented by a third party, have  complained about the sale of two 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policies sold to them  by Santander  UK Plc in 
December 1999.  
At the time Santander  UK Plc was trading at the time as Abbey National.  For consistency, Ill 
refer to Santander  throughout this decision.  
background
Mr C and Ms C took out a mortgage  in December  1999 and around the same time they also 
both took out MPPI cover. They each took out a policy that protected  them in the event of 
them losing their jobs.
 
They say the PPI wasnt properly explained to them and they didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator in this case told Mr C and Ms C that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
Because Mr and Mrs C disagreed their complaint has been passed  to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding this 
case.
Having done this, I wont be upholding Mr C and Ms Cs complaint.
These events took place  some time ago and its unfortunate  - although not unusual - that 
Santander no longer has all the documentation from the sale. 
However, weve seen  a number of similar  complaints to this and weve developed an 
understanding of how these types of policies were  normally sold and the processes 
consumers typically went through to get MPPI. So in assessing this case Ive used this 
knowledge as well as taking account of what the parties have said.  But inevitably, in cases  
like this where we have limited documents available,  decisions are based on the balance of 
probability i.e. whats  more likely to have happened.
From what  Ive seen, it looks as if the MPPI  was something Mr and Ms C wanted  at the time. 
I say this because  I can see they each chose  to take 100% cover by way of buying  their own 
policy, rather than choosing to split  the cover from one policy  between  them.  This suggests  
to me its likely that there was a discussion about MPPI cover  and Mr C and Ms C made a 
decision that best reflected their particular situation. I think  its likely they wanted  the cover  
set up like this.
I think theyd have  also had to complete an MPPI  application that was separate from their 
mortgage. As a separate application process would  have  been necessary, Mr C and Ms C 
wouldve each had to authorise their monthly  MPPI premium payments to be drawn from 
their bank account. This again suggests to me that the MPPI was something they had the 
opportunity to think about before going ahead with it. 
Ref: DRN29845352So whilst I completely  accept there  are some key documents from the sale that it would have 
been useful to see but are no longer available, I think theres  enough to show Mr C and 
Ms C probably agreed to the cover  and considered it would be useful  enough to each of 
them to have their own cover.  
Santander says that the MPPI  cover  was recommended to Mr C and Ms C as part of an 
advised sale. This means it was under a duty to ensure  it was suitable for Mr C and Ms C.
I think Mr C and Ms C were eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Mr C told us about a medical condition  he had 
when he took out the MPPI,  but given that he and Ms C only took out unemployment cover 
that wouldnt have  been a factor had he needed to make a claim. 
I also think the policies  were comparable in cost to similar ones I know were available at the 
time and I havent seen  anything that suggests  the monthly premiums were  unaffordable for 
them. 
Taking everything into account,  its fair to say that their mortgage would have been a big 
financial commitment and the consequences  of not being able to keep up payments on it 
couldve had serious implications. Ive seen that if theyd successfully claimed on their policy,  
it would  have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
So whilst I cant say why they chose the policies,  I can certainly  see how it could have been 
of use in their situation. Overall, I think the policies were suitable for Mr C and Ms C.
Ive next looked at whether Santander  gave Mr C and Ms C enough information about the 
policies. Because  it was so long ago, I cant confirm  what was said when the parties  met or 
that Santander provided all the information it should have. 
In order to uphold  Mr C and Ms Cs complaint Id have to think it was likely that Santander 
hadnt obtained any consent or that the information  was so poor they didnt have what they 
needed to make an informed decision. I simply dont have information or evidence  to 
suggest that. What  Ive seen makes me think Mr C and Ms C knew about  the cover  and had 
an understanding of how it worked  and would have most  probably  discussed it with their 
adviser at the time. So I think its more likely they bought the policies because they thought  
they were something  they had a use for and it suited their situation of the time.  For these  
reasons I cant safely say the MPPI  was mis-sold.  
Ive seen that Mr C is unhappy  with the way Santander responded when he tried to make a 
claim on his policy in 2017 as a result  of being  made  redundant. Im not able to look at the 
details of what happened because this decision has been looking only at the potential  
mis-sale of the MPPI to Mr and Ms C. So if Mr C wishes to make a complaint about this 
attempted claim,  he will first need to raise  it with Santander before bringing it to us. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or direct Santander UK Plc to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Ref: DRN29845353Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2984535