K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to cover the 
repayments on a mortgage in 2002. The policy covered Mr A only. Mr and Mrs A say 
Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Santander has said that the PPI was sold over the phone. And, based on what  I understand 
about Santanders sales practices  at the time, I think its likely the script the advisor wouldve 
used during the call wouldve prompted them to explain that Mr and Mrs A had a choice 
about the PPI.
Mr and Mrs As mortgage with Santander  had also been running  for nearly three  years  
before the PPI was sold, and so I dont  think they can reasonably have  thought the PPI was 
part of their mortgage or that they needed to take the PPI in order  to have the mortgage.
Santander has also sent us a copy of a PPI welcome letter  sent to Mr and Mrs A confirming  
the PPI had been set up, how much  it cost and enclosing a PPI schedule which set out the 
cost, benefit and level of cover  of the PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Santander made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs A 
that they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs A chose to take it, knowing they 
didnt have to.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it had to check  that it was right 
for them. And, based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, Mr A doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than the other  
means Mr and Mrs A have told us they couldve used to make their repayments  if Mr A 
wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Santander had to give Mr and Mrs A clear  
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Mr and Mrs As 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs A if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs A off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs A paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly.
Ref: DRN23900162Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs As PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs As commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs A back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2390016