K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited didnt help him enough when he was in financial 
difficulties.
background
Mr M says he asked  MBNA to set up a direct debit  so he wouldnt forget to make  payments 
into his credit card account. It would  only let him set up a standing order  but, due to some 
health issues he was experiencing  at the time, he forgot to do this. He is upset that MBNA  
would only consider his basic salary when setting up a repayment  plan. And it didnt 
communicate properly  with him before  defaulting  his account. This situation  is affecting his 
health.
MBNA said Mr M phoned the bank in January 2018.  It gave him a breathing space and it 
refunded a late payment fee. Mr M made  a payment in February 2018 but his payment the 
following month was returned unpaid. MBNA sent a letter, email and text messages to him 
about the arrears.  It temporarily waived interest  and fees but explained the account was at 
risk of being  defaulted. At the beginning of July 2018 Mr M phoned MBNA and said his 
circumstances had changed. But his updated  financial  statement based  on his basic  salary 
showed he could  only afford to pay £82 a month.  It said it couldnt take into account the 
commission he was expecting to earn because he had only recently started his job. Mr M 
didnt make any further payments. So in line with its terms  and conditions  it defaulted  his 
account at the end of August 2018.
Our investigator didnt  think MBNA had done anything  wrong.  He could see itd offered to set 
up a direct debit but only for £82. Mr M wanted to pay more than this so it said he would 
have to make manual  payments  or set up a standing order.  Mr M agreed to do this and he 
then told MBNA his health was much better. In those circumstances our investigator  didnt  
think MBNA had done anything  wrong.
Mr M didnt  agree and said MBNA shouldve reminded him when he didnt set up the 
standing order. He said he wants to clear the debt now so thinks  MBNA should remove the 
default from his credit  record.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M says he wouldve avoided  a default  on his account if MBNA had agreed to set up a 
direct debit. And it shouldve communicated  much more with him about the risk of defaulting 
his account.
Mr M explained to MBNA he was in financial difficulties. In those circumstances the bank 
shouldve tried to help him in a positive and sympathetic way. So Ive outlined  fully the 
history of Mr Ms contact with MBNA to see if it gave him the help he was asking for. 
Mr M phoned MBNA at the beginning of 2018 to say he was having difficulties making 
payments. It gave him a breathing space  for 30 days and refunded  a late payment fee. He 
made a payment in February 2018.  
Ref: DRN29752362But when the payment  in March 2018  was returned unpaid MBNA  tried to contact him by 
letter, email  and text. It tried to speak  to him at the beginning of April 2018 but he told the 
bank he wasnt well. It sent him a letter to say his account was now being looked  after by its 
Specialist Support  Team.  And it asked him to send  it a letter from a medical professional  to 
confirm his health problems (although I cant see hes done this). 
MBNA spoke to Mr M at the end of April 2018  and carried out a financial assessment. Based 
on that it concluded Mr M couldnt  afford  to make  any repayments. But it warned  him his 
account was at risk of defaulting in the future. And it confirmed  this in writing.  
In June 2018 it issued a default notice as Mr Ms account was five months  in arrears. The 
following month Mr M phoned MBNA and a further assessment showed he could afford to 
pay £82 a month. He wanted to pay more but MBNA  said it couldnt take his commission  into 
account because  he hadnt been  in his job long enough to establish its regularity. So Mr M 
agreed to set up a standing order  to allow him to make  payments in excess of £82. Again 
MBNA warned him of the risk of his account  defaulting. But unfortunately Mr M didnt make a 
payment in August 2018. So MBNA defaulted  his account.
Based on that history  I cant say that MBNA  didnt communicate fully with Mr M about the 
risk of his account defaulting. And I cant find it did anything wrong when it wouldnt set up a 
direct debit payment  in July 2018  for more than £82 as this was the amount  the financial 
assessment showed  he could  afford.  It wouldnt have  been reasonable for the bank to agree 
monthly payments  in excess  of this when his commission hadnt been  fully established. Its 
unfortunate that Mr M didnt make the next payment which  led to MBNA defaulting the 
account. But I cant find that was the fault of MBNA.  The bank had offered to set up the 
payment for him but he said he wanted to do that himself. At that stage I dont think there 
was anything to put the bank on notice that he couldnt do that. So I dont find the bank 
couldve done more  to help him. 
Im sorry  to hear this situation is affecting Mr Ms health. And I know  he will be upset with my 
decision, but for the reasons Ive given, I dont think MBNA has done  anything wrong. Its 
obliged to report Mr Ms credit history accurately so as it hasnt one anything wrong I cant 
fairly ask it to remove the default even if he clears  the debt now.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2975236