K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs O say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Os case.
The borrowing  was taken  jointly by Mr and Mrs O. But the PPI policy  just covered Mr O. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs O say they werent aware  theyd been sold PPI. Santander  had to make it clear 
the PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs O agreed to take it. Neither partys been able to 
give us much detail about  how the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs O. And I think  its 
understandable that neither party has any detailed  information about how the PPI was sold 
given the sale was over 20 years  ago. 
But because of this, Ive not seen  enough  to say its likely Santander did do things to make  
Mr and Mrs O think  the PPI wasnt optional. Or that they didnt agree to take it at the time.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs O so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr O wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. And, ultimately, PPI protected Mr and Mrs Os 
mortgage, which was a big and long term commitment, secured on their home
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O. 
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs O about that. Because Santander  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs O, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs O has said - including what theyve said about their 
sick pay and that they had critical  illness  cover. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any 
sick pay and for longer.   And critical illness provided a different  type of benefit to the PPI. So 
these points dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN29739672what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs O any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs O any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs O the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs O 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs O can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2973967