K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Miss G says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss Gs credit  card application  had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It 
briefly explained  it was something  one could take to protect the monthly repayments, and 
gave an overview  of the cost. Then  there were two options to choose  from: one to buy 
PPI and one to turn it down. Both options were  equally prominent  and neither  one 
appears to have been pre-selected. The option to buy PPI was ticked,  and Miss G 
signed the application and returned it by post. So I think  that RBS made it clear Miss G 
didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though I can certainly  
understand why she might not remember this after so long.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Miss G, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
It did have to make sure Miss G got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. And while she had 
some benefits through work, the PPI wouldve covered  her for longer and paid out on top 
of those benefits.
I understand Miss Gs family may have been  willing to help, but there was always the 
chance theyd  be unable to help when  needed. And this policy meant  Miss G wouldnt 
have to ask her family to pay her credit  card  nor have  to go to the extreme of selling off 
her assets.  So the policy  would  have  been useful for Miss G if something went  wrong.  
Then if Miss Gs circumstances changed or she changed her mind, she could cancel the 
PPI at any time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss G about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell her, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN24937942To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back any commission  and profit  share  it got that was more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium. RBS should also pay back any extra interest Miss G paid because  of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back the difference  between  what  
Miss G owes  and what she wouldve  owed  if the commission  and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also add 8%* simple interest if Miss G 
paid off the credit card at some point.
I understand that Miss G has been  bankrupt.  This means she may have to pay some or all of 
her compensation to her trustee  in bankruptcy. Miss G should  bear this in mind  she may 
need to speak to the trustee  about  any compensation she receives  here.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss G may be able to claim  back  the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask the Official  
Receiver, on behalf of Miss G, to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2493794