K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly avoided  his landlord policy.  
Within this decision, any reference I make  to Mr J will include that of his representatives
background
Mr J purchased three properties in December 2006,  each  let to tenants.  In 2007 a new 
tenant  Mr A  moved into one of the properties.  Following a dispute  Mr J began  legal 
proceedings against Mr A to have him evicted.
In February 2012  Mr J took out a UKI commercial landlord insurance policy  through  a broker. 
The dispute  with Mr A continued until July 2014 when he was evicted. Following  his eviction 
Mr J discovered  significant damage  to the property in question.  So he contacted UKI to 
make a claim under his landlord  policy for the damage.
UKI investigated the claim and said Mr J had mis-represented the relationship  he had with 
his tenant (Mr A) when applying for the policy, and upon subsequent renewals. UKI said Mr J 
had failed to disclose the dispute, legal proceedings, and outstanding rent that was owed. 
UKI said it wouldnt have  insured Mr J had it known of these facts,  so it avoided his policy.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service, saying hed been  treated unfairly  and that UKI 
should reinstate  his policy. Our investigator  looked into what  happened and didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said the relevant law at the time required Mr J to disclose  every  circumstance 
he knew or shouldve  known would influence an insurers decision to underwrite a risk or the 
premium to charge.  
Looking at the insurance application the investigator  said the requirement wasnt met by Mr J 
as there  was no mention of the dispute  with Mr A. And from what  UKI had provided, she was 
satisfied it wouldnt have  offered the policy at all, and therefore that it had acted in line with 
the relevant law, and fairly and reasonably,  when  avoiding the policy.  
The investigator also found Mr J hadnt  met his obligation to disclose any circumstances  that 
could have affected UKIs decision  to renew  his policy in March 2013 and 2014. So, she was 
satisfied UKIs decision  to avoid the policies for the life of the policy was fair.
Mr J didnt agree and said he should be considered as a consumer for the purposes of the 
relevant rules. This was because he felt owning  and renting a number of properties shouldnt  
be enough to deem  him as acting in the capacity of a trade,  business  or profession  and 
has said hes not a professional landlord.
So the complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My determination is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution  Rules  (DISP). 
These rules  say I must  make my decision  by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take into 
account relevant:
Ref: DRN20515022law and regulations;
regulators rules guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint in line with the reasons  our investigator has 
previously given. Ill explain why.
consideration of CIDRA
Mr J has asked our service to consider his situation in line with the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) as he took out this insurance 
in the capacity of a consumer. The relevant  rules under CIDRA define a non-consumer  as 
either an individual, or they have entered  into the contract wholly  or in significant part for 
trade, business or professional reasons.
CIDRA came into force on 6 April 2013. This means the Act itself cant directly apply to the 
sale of Mr Js policy. But its possible the Act could apply to the two renewals if I agreed he 
should be considered a consumer  under the definition  Ive given above. 
So Ive thought about Mr Js situation.  He bought three properties  as part of an estate, and it 
seems he did so with the intent of receiving rent from each of them.  From this and his 
particular circumstances  that our investigator has detailed previously, Im satisfied Mr J is a 
professional landlord,  and in entering  the insurance  contract with UKI he did so either wholly  
or in a significant  part for trade, business or professional reasons. 
Mr J has highlighted our services approach  in other  cases involving CIDRA and commercial 
contracts. But as hes described himself, our approach on this matter will depend on 
individual circumstances.  And based  on his, Im not persuaded that CIDRA  is relevant to this 
complaint. Mr J has also said UKI has tried to mislead our service by making reference to 
properties owned by his relatives. However,  this hasnt factored into my decision so it 
doesnt change  my mind. 
misrepresentation and avoidance of the policy
When selling  an insurance policy, insurers will consider the risk involved to decide the 
premiums it should charge or whether it should insure something or someone  at all. In this 
case, UKI has said Mr J misrepresented his situation. And it said had it known of his full 
circumstances, it wouldnt have sold him insurance at all.
So firstly, Ive considered  what the applicable laws and rules  are in this case. The policy in 
question was sold in 2012 which means the relevant law that applies in this case  for 
commercial contracts is the Marine Insurance Act 1906. Under this Act, both UKI and Mr J 
had a duty of utmost good faith.  
This means  there was a high duty on Mr J to disclose all information which  he knew  or ought 
to know was material to UKIs decision to underwrite  a risk or the premium it would charge. 
So Ive considered the evidence provided by both parties. UKI has provided Mr Js 
application which says:
Ref: DRN20515023Please  provide us with a quotation for the following agricultural residential estate known as 
[the estate] The estate comprises of three domestic properties  which  are all rented out to 
families which are as follows
A description  of each  property follows, then it says there had been no previous claims or 
losses. UKI has said there was nothing  within this application to suggest  there  was anything 
but a harmonious relationship with each tenant.  It has also provided  details  of the dispute 
across six years.
From what  Ive seen, Mr J initiated  eviction proceedings  around  a year after Mr A moved  into 
the home, yet it took six years to have him evicted.  At the time of application  Mr A didnt 
have a tenancy in place  and hadnt paid rent for some time. UKI has estimated the value  of 
the rent owed  by Mr A was around £80,000,  which  would be alongside  the costs  of any 
related litigation   none of which has been  disputed by Mr J. This persuades me that UKIs 
choice of words to describe this as a significant dispute  is accurate. And it doesnt seem  in 
keeping with the statement he gave at the point of application.
Mr J has said the dispute wasnt constant  but given the length of time the dispute  was 
ongoing, the money involved, and nature of the dispute, Im not persuaded by his comments. 
So Im satisfied Mr J shouldve  known  or ought  to have known this dispute would be material 
to UKI, and that he failed to disclose it at the point of application. 
UKI has said if it had known this information,  it wouldnt  have insured Mr J at all. And its 
provided comments from a senior underwriter  confirming  this. Having considered  these 
carefully, Im persuaded this is the case and UKI wouldnt have insured Mr Js property. 
renewals
At the time of Mr Js renewals in March  2013 and 2014 the Act for commercial  policies  was 
still the Marine Insurance Act 1906. So he still had an obligation  to provide material 
information. And Mr Js provided nothing  to suggest he ever informed UKI of his ongoing 
dispute with Mr A either at the point of renewal in 2013 and 2014 or any point in between. 
So, again,  Im satisfied Mr J didnt disclose material information when he should have.
summary 
Overall Im satisfied Mr J hasnt met his duty of utmost  good faith when entering into this 
contract of insurance, or at the subsequent renewals. UKI has demonstrated it wouldnt have 
insured Mr J had he disclosed information  about  the ongoing dispute with Mr A. So it follows  
that Im satisfied UKIs  decision to avoid this policy from inception was in line with the 
relevant rules, and was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2051502