K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy (when Lloyds  was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) . The complaint is brought  on 
her behalf  by a claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in July 2003.  The policy provided 
Miss D with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.
Miss D didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
She ticked the No box on the mortgage  application form to say she didnt want  PPI.
She never had a meeting with Lloyds; everything was done through her financial 
adviser. Neither she nor her financial adviser has any paperwork to say that she had 
PPI.
She wouldve  received redundancy pay and her partner wouldve paid the mortgage if 
she was unable to work.
She didnt  know she had the policy and the cost didnt appear anywhere  on her 
statements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ds complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ds complaint for the following reasons:
Miss D told us shed ticked the No box on the mortgage application form to say that she 
didnt want PPI. And that it was added without her knowledge. Miss Ds financial adviser 
completed a mortgage  application form on her behalf in 2001 and I can see that she 
indicated that she didnt want PPI. Lloyds told us that a PPI application  form was completed 
by Miss D in one of its branches around  two years after her mortgage application. Miss D 
has no recollection of this, which isnt surprising as it happened some  time ago. But I can 
see she signed the PPI application form, and a separate direct debit form. As she applied for 
the PPI two years after shed applied for the mortgage, she reasonably must have known 
she didnt have to have it. Overall, I think Lloyds told Miss D that the PPI was optional and 
she chose to take it.
Ref: DRN28795442Lloyds says it advised Miss D to take out the policy and it doesnt  look like it was unsuitable  
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. I say this because:
Miss D was eligible  for the policy given  her circumstances  and the terms and conditions.
The mortgage was a long term financial commitment and Miss Ds home was at risk if 
she didnt keep up with the repayments.  Miss D told us she wouldnt have received any 
sick pay from her employer  if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. The PPI 
would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident  
or sickness  and would also have covered Miss D if shed become unemployed. So 
I think the PPI couldve  been a useful  benefit.
Miss D says her partner couldve met the repayments if she couldnt. But the mortgage  
was in her sole name  and payments  from third parties werent guaranteed. So this 
doesnt change  my conclusion.
Miss D also told us about an insurance policy she had which  covered her for disability 
and critical illness. But this was a lump sum policy rather  than protecting her income. So 
although she had other insurance,  it didnt replicate the PPI policy.
Miss D wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits such 
as those affecting  self-employed people or people  with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely she needed 
better advice  or information  about the policys exclusions  and limitations.
The cost of the policy  was set out on the direct  debit form. So Miss D wouldve known it 
was going to cost her £15.63 each  month  before she applied  for it.
In all likelihood, Miss D wouldve received paperwork  about the PPI at the time. Its not 
surprising she cant find this now. And, because the application took place without  the 
involvement of her financial adviser, I wouldnt expect  them  to hold any information 
about the policy in their records.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Miss D would have  made a different decision about taking out 
the policy if better information had been  provided  to her  overall,  I think she would still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2879544